Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 FILE  COPY
Report No. P-2707-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
February 13, 1980
This doument as a resticted disibudion and may be  ed by recipients only in the performace Of
their OfficUl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without World Dank sutoriaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =  Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
US$1.00                 =  TSh 8.30
TSh 1.0                 =  US$0.12
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in
relation to a basket of the currencies of Tanzania's
trading partners, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in
this report were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.30 which
is close to the 1979 average exchange rate.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOT     =  Bank of Tanzania
CIDA    =  Canadian International Development Agency
EAC     =  East African Community
MOA     =  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF     =  Ministry of Finance
NBC     =  National Bank of Commerce
NDCA    =  National Development Credit Agency
p.a.    =  per annum
SIDA    =  Swedish International Development Authority
TFC     =  Tanzania Fertilizer Company
TIB     =  Tanzania Investment Bank
TRDB    =  Tanzania Rural Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TRDB      : July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:           United Republic of Tanzania
BENEFICIARY:        Tanzania Rural Development Bank
AMOUNT:             US$10 million equivalent
TERMS:              Standard
RELENDING TERMS:    The credit proceeds of US$10 million would be relent to
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) for 20 years
including five years of grace at an interest rate not
exceeding 4% per annum.
PROJECT             The proposed project would, over a three-year period,
DESCRIPTION:       aim at strengthening TRDB as a rural credit institution,
and would help in developing its capabilities to provide
needed credit for economically viable rural projects.
Specifically, the project would finance a training
program for TRDB's staff and for village officials;
provision of consultants and local staff to strengthen
TRDB's organizational structure; provision of new office
facilities, office equipment and furniture; provision of
transportation facilities; an input distribution study;
and a line of credit to support TRDB's lending program.
Project benefits would be the increased capacity of
TRDB to efficiently meet village requirements of credit
which would help in increasing village production and
farmers' income. Recovery of the credit is the basic
risk under the proposed project. However, seminars for
village officials in accounting and credit concepts,
improved billing procedures, efficient follow-up and
supervision, and providing credit only to those villages
with good credit records, should minimize this risk.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTIMATED COSTS                              --------      US$ Million-------------
Local           Foreign            Total
Training                                0.60              0.99             1.59
Organizational Improvements             0.63              1.23             1.86
Infrastructural Improvements            0.84              1.14             1.98
Input Distribution Study                0.01             0.05              0.06
Credit                                  3.60              2.40             6.00
Sub-total                          5.68             5.81             11.49
Physical Contingencies                  0.21              0.34             0.55
Price Contingencies                     0.56              0.64             1.20
Total Project Cost                 6.45             6.79             13.24
of which taxes and duties       0.47               -               0.47
Project Cost net of
Taxes and Duties                      5.98             6.79             12.77
FINANCING PLAN:                             ------------US$ Million-------------
Local      Foreign      Total        %
IDA                                     3.2         6.8         10.0        78
Government                              2.0          -           2.0        16
TRDB                                    0.8          -           0.8        06
Project Cost net of
Taxes and Duties                      6.0         6.8         12.8       100
DISBURSEMENTS:                              -------------US$ Million-------------
IDA Fiscal Year       1981         1982        1983        1984
Annual                                  3.6         3.8         2.0         0.6
Cumulative                              3.6         7.4         9.4        10.0
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:   Report No. 2362-TA dated February 1, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of US$10.0 million equivalent on
standard terms to help finance a Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project.
The credit proceeds would be relent to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank
(TRDB) at an interest rate not exceeding 4% per annum for 20 years including
five years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976 and the
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new Country Economic Memorandum is expected to be issued later this year.
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1978 of US$230. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and about 70% of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GDP, approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
service sector produces about 40% of GDP. Overall population density is
low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated. Population growth is
estimated at 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively
high levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and wholesale trade
are under state control. There is extensive state intervention in economic
activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange controls, price control,
the reservation of some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and
detailed Government investment planning. The second major feature of
Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development
and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequalities in income
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on Dar-es-Salaam Port Engineering project dated December 5, 1979.



distribution. This is reflected in ambitious Government programs for the
provision of rural water supplies, health services and universal primary
education.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1968-78 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.8%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
recovered with annual growth of 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978. During the
seventies the service sector was the fastest growing sector - 6.3% per year.
6.        The Government has a good record of domestic resource mobilization.
Between 1967-68 and 1977-78 the share of recurrent revenues rose from 15.1%
to 19.3% of GDP. However, most of this increase occurred before 1975-1976;
in 1974/75 revenue peaked at 22% of GDP. The increase was achieved through a
combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75, the
rate of national savings has also been high: gross national savings fluctuated
at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960s through 1973, fell to half that
level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis level in 1976
and 1977. These are high levels of savings for a country at Tanzania's income
level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975 the
average urban rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend
towards an increasing gap in the early 1960s. Moreover, it is likely that
this gap has been slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of
agricultural production and higher producer prices. However, regional income
differentials in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal
urban sector there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income
differential between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage
earners, from 50 to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, a large informal
sector has emerged comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed
workers with earnings significantly below the official urban minimum wage.
The policies of wage restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975
should have a beneficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribu-
tion, and the basic needs oriented programs in rural water, health and primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in
public expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite this impressive overall record of development, some pro-
blems have begun to manifest themselves in recent years. Exports have failed
to keep pace with the growth of the rest of the economy: the overall export
index is down almost one-third since 1966. This poor performance in exports
is due to the poor growth rate of agricultural cash crops. While agricul-
tural output has increased impressively in recent years (10.9% in 1976 and
8.2% in 1977), most of this growth has been in the hard-to-measure subsistence



- 3 -
sector; the monetary sector has lagged well behind. This failure of export
growth has led to increasing dependency on foreign loans and grants to pay
for imports.
9.        A second increasingly serious problem is the deceleration of the
growth of domestic revenues. While still at a high ratio to GDP compared to
most other developing countries, government revenues have been growing more
slowly than GDP in recent years. At the same time recurrent expenditures have
been higher than budgeted. As a result, public sector savings have been well
below expectations and the Government has had to rely more upon borrowing
(both foreign and local) and external aid for financing development than was
planned.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77 the Government adhered to the program agreed to
at the time of the Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to the directly productive sectors of industry
and agriculture, higher agricultural producer prices, constraints on wages and
salaries, price and tax increases to restrain consumption and tight control
of imports. These policies, aided by the boom in coffee prices, succeeded in
keeping government spending under control with low levels of borrowing from
the banking system and led to a balance of payments surplus of almost US$150
million in 1977. Food production increased and government stocks of most
foodgrains reached record levels. In 1978 the Government was able to ease
import restrictions and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed
by all the major sectors in the economy.
11.       Unfortunately, the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began
to fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October,
1978 war broke out with Uganda and the resulting imports of military equipment
and mobilization of resources required for the war effort put an increasing
strain on the balance of payments and the domestic budget. Consequently, the
current account showed a deficit of more than US$450 million in 1978 and the
overall balance of payments was almost US$300 million in deficit. The Govern-
ment's foreign reserves were rapidly drawn down and the country was forced to
delay payment of about US$60 million in import bills.
12.       The situation deteriorated further in 1979.  The overall balance
of payments for 1979 is expected to be almost US$200 million in deficit and
arrears on import payment were estimated at about US$200 million by the end
of the year. At the same time the domestic budget deficit has increased
substantially. A recurrent budget deficit of almost TSh 1 billion (US$120
million), was estimated for FY1978/79 and government borrowing from the
banking system is estimated at TSh 3 billion (US$360 million), a major
component in the increase in the money supply of about 35%. In an effort to
deal with the increasing balance of payments deficit, import licenses were
reduced by almost 40% in real terms from the 1978 level and the Government
announced a 10% devaluation in January of 1979. In addition the FY1979/80
budget called for a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditure and
borrowing from the banking system of TSh 1.67 billion; however, through the



- 4 -
first quarter of this fiscal year borrowing was already TSh 1.4 billion as
spending agencies, due to lack of budgetary discipline, were able to exceed
their budgetary allocations. In early 1979 the Government arranged for almost
US$75 million in funds from the IMF from a First Credit Tranche, the Trust
Fund and the Export Compensatory Fund, but negotiations for further assistance
from the IMF have so far been unsuccessful. To deal with the increasing
economic problems as well as provide a framework for IMF assistance, the
Government urgently needs to develop a comprehensive program to overcome
the emerging crisis, as it did in 1974; the Bank has offered to help the
Government in developing such a program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance on
concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid has
been given to Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service
ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the recent balance
of payments crisis has forced the Government to utilize commercial loans and
suppliers credits and as a result the debt service ratio is estimated at 12%
in 1979 and projected at 15% in 1980. We expect it will remain in the range
of 15-20% throughout the 1980's. In 1978 the Bank held 12% of Tanzania's
external debt (for the Bank Group, it was 28%) and received 37% of Tanzania's
debt service (40% for the Bank Group). We are projecting this debt service
share to fall to about 21% in 1980 and to remain around 25% for the coming
decade.
14.       Tanzania's development program will require resources in excess of
domestic savings and external capital made available to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases, a
portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports on
the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General
Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities.
The next phase of the mediator's work will be to make recommendations on the
allocation of these assets and liabilities. The mediator's report and recom-
mendations on the future structure of the East African Development Bank (EADB)
have been accepted by the Partner States. The revised EADB Charter along with
the Treaty amending and re-enacting the new Charter have been submitted to
the three Governments for signature as soon as they are constitutionally
ready.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzania's budget as new national entities take over the services formerly
provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC



difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 39 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window terms, amounting to US$749.5 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June
8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of November 30, 1979 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
18.       To support Tanzania's overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations are increasingly focusing on the rural sector and directly
productive projects. While up to the end of FY1972 Bank Group operations were
directed mainly to infrastructure, the overwhelming majority of the operations
approved since FY73 have been for directly productive projects. Furthermore,
a number of recent Bank Group support infrastructure projects have been
closely linked with specific productive activities. For example, the Urban
Water Supply Project (Loan No. 1354-TA) approved in December 1976, will support
the Industrial Complex in Morogoro (Loans No. 1385-T-TA and 1386-TA) and the
Morogoro Textile Project (Loan No. 1607-TA and Credit No. 833-TA). Directly
productive projects recently approved include the Second Cashewnut Development
Project (Credit No. 801-TA), the Tobacco Handling Project (Credit No. 802-TA),
the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Loan No. 1650-TA and Credit No. 875-TA)
and the Tanganyika Development Finance Company Limited Project (Loan No.
1745-TA). In addition, a Tourism Rehabilitation Project (Credit No. 860-TA),
a Sixth Education Project (Credit No. 861-TA) and a Fifth Highway Project
(Credit No. 876-TA) were approved by the Board in FY79. A fourth line of
credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (Loan No. 1750-TA) was approved on
July 24, 1979 and an Engineering Credit for the Dar-es-Salaam Port (Credit
No. S-24-TA) was approved on December 27, 1979. Projects which have been
1/   This section is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Dar-es-Salaam Port Engineering Project dated December 5, 1979.



appraised include a Second Urban Water Supply Project, an Agricultural Ser-
vices Project, a Grain Storage and Milling Project, a Pyrethrum Project, a
Coconut Project, a Tea Processing Project, and a Seventh Education Project. A
rural development project in Mara, a small scale industries project, a third
urban project, a harbours project, a second technical assistance project, a
petroleum exploration project, and a railway project are also under preparation.
19.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is in large part a result of the recent
approval of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall
project implementation has been slower than was projected. The causes of the
difficulties in implementation are varied. Some sten from the scarcity of
suitably trained and experienced manpower, some reflect the problems in
identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the needs of smallholder
farmers while others result from the strains associated with attempting a
"frontal attack" on poverty. These problems have been compounded by frequent
and drastic administrative changes, which -- although potentially the source
of long-term benefits -- have disrupted orderly execution of projects and made
parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. Also, the Uganda war (para. 11)
has had some impact on project implementation. In the early stages of the war
there was some diversion of equipment and manpower; however most of these
problems have been solved. The more serious medium term problem involves the
financial and foreign exchange implications of the war. If these problems are
not resolved, the availability of adequate local funds and the shortage of
foreign exchange could become a major constraint to implementation and oper-
ating performance. In general, implementation difficulties have been most
severe in agriculture, particularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our
lending program has increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems
have become correspondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the
"modern" sector projects have tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment
Bank, Mwanza Textile and Morogoro Industrial Estate Projects, for example, are
proceeding well.
20.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978 on
Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
14 Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. In addition, a number
of EDI supported courses on the transport and industry sectors have been held
at the East African Management Institute in Arusha Tanzania. Furthermore,
the need to establish a close and continuous working level dialogue between
responsible Tanzanian officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems
was one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two
professionals in October 1976. Finally, in February 1977 a regular Government/
Bank Group review of project implementation was established. Discussions on
the Bank Group project portfolio, chaired by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
attended by Bank Group staff and officials from implementing agencies, deal



- 7 -
in detail with individual problem projects and problems which are affecting
project implementation across a number of sectors. As a result of these
efforts, there has been some improvement in project implementation. Actions
agreed to during the reviews have been completed relatively quickly and
coordination and communication between MOF and the various ministries and
agencies responsible for project implementation has improved markedly.
21.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective implementation. In addition to fully supporting the project
implementation review system, MOF has set up a unit to oversee project per-
formance. As a consequence of these efforts, the disbursement record of Bank
Group financed projects has improved somewhat over the last two years, and a
recent analysis indicated that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is about
equal to the Bank-wide average. While there is still a potential for further
significant improvements, the Government is implementing its investment
program, including Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effec-
tively than in the past.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Background
22.       Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single
sector in the Tanzanian economy. Most agricultural production is from small-
holdings using family labor. Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small
number of private estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar,
wheat, rice and livestock. Estate production has diminished in importance
since independence and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's
national livestock herd, the second largest in Africa, is grazed extensively
over the 40% of the country which is free from tsetse fly infestation. It is
largely managed along traditional lines.
23.       The recent performance of the agricultural sector has been dis-
appointing. Over the period 1967-77, the average annual rate of growth of
agricultural production was 2.7%, almost equal to the population growth rate.
In the early seventies food crop production failed to keep pace with popula-
tion growth and, as a result, Tanzania became increasingly dependent on
imports of maize, rice and wheat. A severe drought in 1973 and 1974 resulted
in poor harvests and large imports of foodgrains. Following this the Govern-
ment implemented a number of policies to increase food crop production. Along
with favorable weather conditions these had some effect on stimulating food
crop production. Since the drought, in spite of substantial decline in
export crop production, total agricultural production recovered, increasing in
real terms at an average annual rate of about 7%. However these production
increases represent primarily a recovery from the drought and only return
agricultural expansion to its long-term growth path. In addition there
is the problem of increasing export crop production as discussed above (para.
8). Increasing the long-term growth rate in agriculture and ensuring
balanced growth are two of the key objectives of the Bank Group's investment
strategy in agriculture.



-8-
Rural Organization
24.       In order to improve the design and execution of rural development
projects and programs and mobilize local resources, in 1972 the Government
adopted a decentralized administrative structure. The country's 25 administra-
tive Regions (20 on the mainland) were given substantial power to control the
planning and budgeting of resources in their respective jurisdictions and a
high degree of administrative autonomy. The Prime Minister's Office was
established to provide overall policy direction, coordinate regional plans and
budgets and assist the Regions in preparing their development programs. While
it is clear that this decentralization of authority has improved communication
between the Government and the villages (as the civil service operating at the
district and regional levels are directly involved in rural development
efforts), problems of manpower availability and the ill-defined division of
responsibility between the regions, central ministries and parastatals persist.
25.       Since independence, but particularly from 1970, the grouping of
dispersed farm families into villages (villagization) has been a key element
of Government strategy for the rural areas. The objective of this program
is to facilitate the provision of infrastructure and services to the rural
population and encourage self-reliance and a community approach to rural
development. During 1974, the emphasis shifted from creating additional
ujamaa 1/ villages to forming "development" villages, which place less stress
on communal production. At the same time, the pace of villagization was
accelerated; as a result there are now almost 8,000 registered villages,
containing over three-quarters of Tanzania's rural population. While disrupt-
ing production somewhat in the short term it is still too early to judge how
effectively the villages will be able to meet their goals over the medium and
long term.
Agricultural Services
26.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is responsible for the overall
planning and monitoring of the sector as well as coordinating agricultural
research, training and extension staff, pricing policy, seed multiplication
and supervision of agricultural parastatals. Agricultural research is under-
taken by a wide variety of Government agencies and while MOA has been given
the responsibility for overall coordination, research resources have not
always been allocated in accordance with development priorities. Agricultural
extension services are manned by staff trained by MOA, but are under the
control of the regional administrations. The links between research and
extension are weak, and field staff are often poorly trained and inadequately
supervised. A major review of both the research and the extension systems is
underway, and the Bank Group has agreed to work with the Government to survey
the needs in these areas with the intention of subsequently preparing research
and extension projects; a national research project was recently appraised
(para. 18). Pricing policy is an important tool of the Government in the
1/   "Ujamaa" is a Swahili word meaning "familyhood".



- 9 -
agricultural sector. Since 1974, the Government has accorded greater recogni-
tion to the need to give farmers production incentives; crop and livestock
prices are now reviewed   annually and within the context of panterritorial
pricing substantial producer price increases have been made in recent years.
Agricultural Parastatals, which exist for major crops and livestock, play a
key role in agricultural marketing and processing. The tendency has been to
progressively enlarge the role and scope of these institutions, and this has
frequently strained their capacities to efficiently provide the services for
which they are responsible. Overall operational efficiency is low, with
correspondingly high costs for services. The Government is aware of the
problems but has not yet developed a comprehensive strategy for addressing
them. The Bank Group, in the course of its appraisals of agricultural proj-
ects, has been analyzing the parastatals involved and also intends to initiate
sector work for a broader review of Tanzania's agricultural parastatals.
Rural Credit
27.       Two major institutions provide credit for rural development, the
National Bank of Commerce (NBC), the only commercial Bank operating in
Tanzania, and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB). During the period
1972-78, approximately 93% of the provided credits were short-term, 6% medium
term and 1% long term. By far the larger part of the short-term credit was
provided by NBC as it is the only source of short-term credit for financing
crop marketing. NBC presently has 99 branches and 204 agencies serving 71
administrative districts. During the same period, TRDB provided 37% of the
credit made available for agricultural production, mostly in the form of
seasonal inputs in kind. Short-term production credit is also provided by
the Tanzania Coffee Authority and the Tanzania Cotton Authority.
28.       In 1978, the charter of Bank of Tanzania (BOT), the Central Bank,
was amended to allow BOT to provide financial assistance to the rural sector.
BOT has been empowered to extend rediscounting facilities to development banks
and designated financial institutions such as TRDB. BOT could also subscribe
to the share capital of these institutions and grant them loans or advances
for periods ranging from 1 to 20 years. In case of a default by rural bor-
rowers due to the effects of natural calamities or other exceptional circum-
stances, BOT could provide funds to the lending institutions to enable them
to postpone the repayment periods by up to five years.
The Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
29.       TRDB was established in 1971 to provide long and medium term finan-
cing for rural development as well as technical assistance and advice for the
promotion of rural development. It was also required to administer special
funds and to finance the purchase and resale of agricultural inputs on credit
terms. On May 1, 1971, TRDB started its operation by taking over the assets
and liabilities of its disbanded predecessor, the National Development Credit
Agency (NDCA). The total portfolio transfered to TRDB was TSh. 73.4 million



- 10 -
(US$8.8 milllion) of which TSh. 17 million (US$2.0 million) were already in
arrears. The initial share capital of TRDB amounted to TSh. 25 million (US$3.0
million) representing the net tangible assets transferred from NDCA. This
was increased through successive Government contributions, partly financed by
foreign grants. As of June 30, 1978, the authorized share capital of TRDB
was TSh. 300 million (US$36.1 million), of which a total of TSh. 172 million
(US$20.7 million) has been paid in. Other resources amounting to TSh. 416
million (about US$50.1 million) consist of: loans tied to certain crop
programs and rural development projects from the Bank Group (about TSh. 184
million) and the International Coffee Organization (TSh. 10 million); loans
(TSh. 39 million) and grants (TSh. 160 million) from bilateral agencies to be
administered by TRDB for general and specific purposes; special ujamaa village
bonds (TSh. 10 million); and surplus generated by TRDB (TSh. 13 million).
TRDB's total loan portfolio amounted to TSh. 436 million (US$52.5 million) with
a provision for bad and doubtful debts of TSh. 74 million (US$8.9 million).
30.       The 1971 Act establishing TRDB was amended in 1975 to permit TRDB
to mobilize domestic resources for rural development by accepting deposits.
However, shortage of trained manpower and lack of adequate facilities prevented
TRDB from actively engaging in this field. Other arrangements have now been
made to provide TRDB with access to domestic resources through BOT (para. 28).
TRDB inherited from NDCA responsibility for the credit components under two
IDA credits (Credits No. 80-TA and 217-TA).   Since then TRDB has acted as a
credit channel in a series of other agricultural and rural development projects,
namely: Tea Development Project (Credit No. 287-TA), Second Livestock Project
(Credit No. 382-TA), Geita Cotton Project (Credit 454-TA), Kigoma Rural
Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA), Dairy Development Project (Credit No.
580-TA), National Maize Project (Credit No. 606-TA), Fisheries Development
Project (Credit No. 652-TA), and Tobacco Handling Project (Credit No. 802-TA).
31.       According to the TRDB Act, all powers are vested in a Board of
Directors consisting of nine members. The Chairman, who is also the Managing
Director, is appointed by the President. The Minister of Finance appoints the
other members who are chosen from among persons with knowledge and experience
in economic and financial matters, agriculture, rural development and coopera-
tive institutions. In its organization chart TRDB has a position of General
Manager who is responsible for day-to-day operations. However, since the
last General Manager was reassigned in June 1978, this post has remained
vacant and the Managing Director has assumed responsibility for operations.
TRDB is organized along functional lines into four major departments:
Operations, Development, Finance and Administration, and 19 regional offices.
Each department and regional office is headed by a manager, all of whom
presently report to the Managing Director. TRDB's existing staff is of good
quality and is dedicated. Their performance is acceptable given the increasing
demands of their responsibilities. The three main categories of staff are
project officers responsible for appraisal and supervision, credit supervisors
responsible for monitoring project implementation and ensuring the mainte-
nance of adequate borrower records, and accountants. While there has been a
substantial increase in the number of project officers and credit supervisors
(they increased from 15 in each category in 1971 to 73 and 84, respectively, by



- 11 -
1979), the general shortage of experienced accountants in Tanzania coupled
with the relatively high salaries offered by the private sector have resulted
in high turnover and shortages in TRDB's accounting staff. It is expected,
however, that the installation of a suitable computer under this project
(para. 47) would relieve some of the pressure caused by shortage of accountants.
32.       TRDB now provides short-term (seasonal loans up to one year repayment
period), medium-term (up to 5 years) and long-term (up to 15 years) financing
for rural development. Eligible borrowers originally included: District
Development Corporations, Cooperative Unions, Ujamaa and registered villages,
and individuals or corporations engaged in rural development. However, the
Cooperative Unions were dissolved in May 1976 because of mismanagement, lack
of effective records and misuse of funds, and since that time the basic thrust
of TRDB's lending has been to villages. This necessitates increasing TRDB's
-staff to help in dealing with an increased number of inexperienced clients.
33.       The basic guidelines for TRDB's lending are (a) that the loan
amount should not exceed 75% of the total cost of the project; (b) that the
value of the loan is always extended in the form of goods, i.e., there are no
cash disbursements to the borrower; (c) that the borrower maintains a regular
account with NBC and signs an irrevocable order instructing that a percentage
deduction from crop payments be made directly by the crop marketing authori-
ties to TRDB; (d) that loans are made only to borrowers who meet the usual
lending criteria such as good management, proper maintenance of books and
accounts, prompt repayment of previous loans; and (e) that the project is
economically viable. The guidelines suggest that for all projects, an
economic rate of return not less than 10% and a benefit/cost ratio not less
than 1 using a 10% discount rate should be the criteria for acceptability.
TRDB is supposed to obtain security for its loans. However, in practice
security does not form an important part of the loan: the viability of the
project and good management are considered more important elements. When
TRDB takes security it normally consists of a chattel mortgage on movable
property.
34.       As of June 30, 1978, TRDB's total outstanding gross portfolio
amounted to TSh 436 million (US$52.5 million). Although there is no available
information to express in quantitative terms the impact of TRDB on the rural
sector measured in numbers of incremental hectares planted or tons produced,
the substantial number of loans approved gives an indication of its achieve-
ments over the years. Between 1973 and 1978 TRDB approved 1,930 loans of
which approximately 68% were seasonal loans, 12% medium-term loans, and 20%
long-term loans; medium and long-term loans covered a wide range of activities
such as farm machinery, rural transport, storage, livestock, farm development
and small-scale industries.
35.       It is difficult to compare the financial results of TRDB's opera-
tions from year to year because of frequent past changes in its accounting
procedures. To evaluate TRDB's portfolio in the absence of reliable data,
the total of TRDB's bad and doubtful debts during the period 1972 to 1978 was
measured against the total amounts disbursed during the period; this ratio was



- 12 -
found to average 10%. By excluding the debts due from the now dissolved
cooperatives, this ratio fell to 8% of disbursements. A review of TRDB's
interest rate structure and the level of interest rates to be charged by TRDB
is discussed below (para. 56).
36.       The 1971 Act establishing TRDB recognized the fact that while TRDB
should be guided in its operations by sound banking principles and should
finance only economically productive and technically viable projects, it
would have a development role to fulfill. For this, TRDB was allowed to
administer "Special Funds" for those projects which may be considered of
national priority but involving higher than normally acceptable risks or
otherwise not meeting TRDB's lending criteria: any losses or liabilities
arising out of the use of these funds would not be charged against the capital
resources of TRDB. Any high risk or other project not satisfying TRDB's
normal lending criteria would be financed out of the Special Funds in
accordance with the provisions of the TRDB Act (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Previous Bank Group Experience
37.       An IDA credit for US$5.0 million equivalent (Credit No. 80-TA) was
approved in November 1965 to help finance the National Development Credit
Agency's (NDCA) program for extending short, medium and long-term credits
to cooperatives, and through the cooperatives, to farmers for developmental
purposes. NDCA experienced a number of problems and its performance was
disappointing. This failure reflected a number of factors: it inherited
large bad debts from its predecessor the Agricultural Credit Agency; it
suffered from weak management; and it proved unable to recover new loans from
an increasing number of cooperatives. Together these factors culminated in
NDCA's dissolution in 1971, when arrears amounted to about 25% of its loan
portfolio and its assets and liabilities were transferred to TRDB (para. 29
above).
38.       TRDB, the successor of NDCA, has been the intermediary for channel-
ling credit under eight Bank Group financed projects (para. 30). TRDB's
performance has been good. However, these projects, while they may have
influenced short and medium-term crop production, contributed very little to
TRDB's institutional capability and long-term growth; TRDB has been acting
only as a conduit for funds with decisions on beneficiaries and purposes made
largely outside TRDB.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Tanzania with
the assistance of the Bank Group as the first project aimed at strengthening
TRDB as an institution and supporting its long-term growth. The project was
appraised in September/October 1978. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled
"Tanzania Rural Development Bank," Report No. 2362-TA, dated February 1, 1980,



- 13 -
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were
held in Washington in April 1979 and in Dar-es-Salaam in November 1979. The
Tanzania Delegation was led by Mr. E. Mulokozi, Principal Secretary, Ministry
of Finance and Planning. A Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning of
this report and a Supplementary Project Data Sheet is in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
40.       The proposed project would, over a three-year period, aim at
strengthening TRDB's capacity to provide credit in an efficient manner for
economically viable rural development projects. Specifically, the project
would include financing for:
(a) improving TRDB's training programs for its employees
and village officials;
(b) strengthening TRDB's organization through equipping and
staffing as necessary a new Management Information Center (to
provide updated information to management), a new Organization
and Methods Division within its Development Department (to
develop work routines, controls and procedure manuals), an
expanded Research Division (to cover monitoring and evalu-
ation); and a Regional Directorate (responsible for the
coordination and supervision of TRDB's operations in the
regions);
(c) improving TRDB's infrastructure through the acquisition of
adequate office accommodation, provision of needed furniture
and equipment, provision of transport facilities (mainly for
field staff) and the construction of three houses in Dar es
Salaam for the technical experts employed to assist in
training;
(d) employment of consultants to assist the Government and
TRDB in resolving the input distribution problem;
(e) a line of credit to assist in financing TRDB's lending program.
Implementation and Detailed Features
41.       TRDB would have overall responsibility for the implementation
of the project. TRDB is the main credit institution for the rural sector in
Tanzania and, with the dissolution of the Cooperative Unions (para. 32), it
deals directly with almost 8,000 rural villages in Tanzania.
Detailed Features: Staffing and Training
42.       In view of the increasing volume of lending and its large number of
inexperienced clients, TRDB's requirement of new staff is expected to increase



- 14 -
considerably. Given this, and as the annual allocation of university gradu-
ates to TRDB has been below the number required in the past, the Government
has undertake to satisfy TRDB's requirements for university graduates during
the project period (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
43.       TRDB's management has vigorously pursued a policy of training new
recruits and existing staff through local and overseas training programs. In
the past local training was undertaken by the Institute of Finance Management.
However, because this training was geared more towards commercial banking than
rural credit it was replaced by a program under the tutelage of senior officers
of TRDB with the help of a technical assistance program provided by the
UNDP/FAO. Because even this program does not address all TRDB's training
needs, the project provides for a revised program to deal with existing
deficiencies.
44.       The staff training program to be financed under the project is
designed to provide the maximum scope for problem solving by the partici-
pants, both on an individual and group basis. Initial training courses would
be organized for both Project Officers and Credit Supervisors and an attempt
will be made to make the courses more practical and more focused on specific
responsibilities of the staff involved. To allow for better interchange of
theory and practice, the courses would be divided into two parts and the
second part would normally take place after one year of field experience.
Two further courses in project appraisal and new developments in agricultural
practices would be provided. These refresher style courses would be designed
to remedy skill deficiencies. Also, a one week course would be conducted
annually for all Regional Managers about the role of management.
45.       To complement the efforts of the Prime Minister's office under
the Village Management Technicians Program (which is being supported under
the Fifth Education Project, Credit 607-TA), the project would also provide
for training of village officials. Six two-man mobile training teams would
be established under the project to travel to centrally located villages
covering eight to 15 neighboring villages to provide instruction to village
bookkeepers in the proper maintenance of books and records.
46.       An internationally recruited Chief Training Officer would have the
specific responsibility for implementation of the training component. He
would be assisted by an internationally recruited Agricultural and Farm
Management Specialist and an Agricultural Economist. The Agricultural
and Farm Management Specialist would be responsible for the development of
adequate manuals on the technical aspects of agricultural projects and the
Agricultural Economist would develop appraisal guidelines and assist in the
overall training of TRDB staff. All three of these staff would be qualified
and experienced and be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement). The project
would, in addition to financing the services of these experts, finance the
construction of three houses for their use (para. 53).



- 15 -
(b) Detailed Features: Strengthening TRDB's Organizational Structure
47.       Management Information Center.  Reliable data on operations are not
available and the loan accounting system is inadequate. In 1977, TRDB com-
missioned a firm of consultants to improve the accounting system based on the
old accounting machinery but this machinery cannot cope with the increasing
volume of operations. The project, therefore, provides for the establishment
of the Management Information Center, which would initially operate as a
Division under the Development Department and later as an autonomous unit
reporting to the Managing Director. To identify the machinery capable
of meeting TRDB's needs, the project provides for the employment of consul-
tants (40 man-months) at a man-month cost of about US$10,000 (including the
man-month rate, international travel and subsistence) to recommend a small
computer suitable for TRDB's operations, and to develop and implement appro-
priate computer programs. The computer, to be procured and installed under
the project, would be part of an integrated information system. Such a system,
in addition to accounting functions, would include statistical information to
improve billing procedures through providing timely data on loans outstanding
and arrears. The computer suppliers will train TRDB's staff in using the
equipment and will provide for necessary services.
48.       Organization and Methods Division.  To facilitate the proper flow of
information within TRDB, this division would be established within the Devel-
opment Department to assist TRDB's management in simplifying, standardizing
and expediting organizational control procedures and ensuring the proper plan
of information. Consultants would be employed (48 man-months) at a man-month
cost of about US$8,000 (including the man-month rate, international travel and
subsistence) to assist TRDB in setting up this division and defining rules,
practices and procedures by which TRDB staff are to operate. The consultants
would, in particular, establish controls and specifications for the data
collection system and implementation of a new procedures manual. The consult-
ants would also train the division's staff in carrying out their functions.
49.       Research Division.  To ensure effective loan supervision, TRDB's
management at all levels should receive adequate information showing the
progress of the projects compared with the original plans. As the informa-
tion becomes available from the information center (para. 47) a monitoring
mechanism would be activated. The existing Research and Statistics Division
would be strengthened by incorporating the monitoring and evaluation func-
tions of all TRDB activities. This division would be responsible for develop-
ing, in cooperation with the Training Division, simple, basic technical
manuals for each crop and activity financed by TRDB. These would provide
information on the types of farm inputs, good crop farming practices, pests
and diseases, suitable farm models for different climate conditions and
social organization. Development of such a manual for livestock has already
started.
50.       Regional Directorate.  Under the old TRDB organizational structure,
the nineteen regional managers reported to the General Manager. However,
since the reassignment of the General Manager in June 1978 (para. 31), the



- 16 -
increased duties of the Managing Director have resulted in considerable demand
on his time. In order to reduce these demands and establish a more efficient
management structure, TRDB will establish a Regional Directorate in the Head
Office to be responsible for the coordination and supervision of the operations
of TRDB's regional offices which accounts for the bulk of TRDB's lending
activities. At the same time TRDB's management intends to strengthen the
regional offices and to place greater responsibilities on them as they gain
experience. The Head of the Regional Directorate will be assisted by four
Zonal Managers and a Loan Collection Division Head, all to be appointed not
later than October 31, 1980 (Section 2.02(b)(ii) of the draft Project Agree-
ment). The appointment of the Regional Directorate Head will be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
(c) Detailed Features: Improving TRDB's Infrastructure
51.       New Office Accommodations.  In view of the expected expansion of
its activities and the increase in its staff, TRDB has contracted along with
other institutions to participate in the construction of a new office build-
ing. Construction of the building began in 1978 and is expected to be com-
pleted by February 1980. With the construction of this building, TRDB
would have adequate office space to meet office needs, training facilities
and data processing space requirements. This office will be fully financed
by the Government and TRDB.
52.       Transport Facilities.  Lack of adequate transport facilities has
adversely affected TRDB's operations, particularly the supervision functions.
To increase the mobility of TRDB staff engaged in project appraisal and
supervision, the project will provide funds for the purchase of three cars
for head office staff, 25 four-wheel drive vehicles for regional offices and
67 motorcycles for field credit supervisors. Each regional office would be
provided with at least one four-wheel drive vehicle and each credit supervisor
would be provided with a motorcycle in the regions where the terrain allows
the use of this mode of transport. To encourage proper maintenance of motor-
cycles, credit supervisors will obtain them through personal loans from TRDB.
53.       Office Furniture and Equipment and Construction of Three Houses.
In order to equip the new divisions and departments established under the
project, the project would provide for office furniture and equipment.
Due to the severe shortage of appropriate housing in Dar es Salaam which has
always adversely affected recruitment and retention of essential expatriate
staff, funds are also provided for the construction of about three houses,
in accordance with Government standards, to house the training experts (para.
46). These houses will be owned by TRDB and after the departure of the expa-
triates would be occupied by TRDB's other expatriates or rented to TRDB's
staff.
54.       Input Distribution Study.  The agricultural input distribution
system has experienced continuing modifications involving TRDB's role. In
addition to providing input financing, TRDB is now providing agricultural
inputs, both from local and foreign sources, directly to its own borrowers.



- 17 -
In view of the difficulties experienced by TRDB in the procurement and
physical distribution of inputs and the increasing demand on TRDB's staff
time to fulfill this role, the Government has undertaken the responsibility
of resolving the problem with a view to relieving TRDB of this burden,
thereby enabling it to act as a purely financial institution. Consultants
would be employed (8 man-months) under the project at a man-month cost of
about US$8,000 (including the man-month rate, international travel and
subsistence) to carry out a study to assist the Government and TRDB in
reaching a satisfactory alternative solution.
(d) Detailed Features: Line of Credit
55.       Funds are provided under the Project to assist in the financing of
TRDB's lending program over the three-year project period. These funds would
be in the form of a general line of credit to be used by TRDB in the normal
course of its operations. It is intended that this would be in the nature of
a pilot project since it is the first such credit provided to TRDB by the
Bank Group. The credit component would amount to US$6 million and represents
only 6% of TRDB's projected annual loan disbursements. Certain limits and
conditions would be placed on the application of these funds. First, there
would be a free limit of US$30,000 for seasonal inputs and farm machinery
sub-loans, US$70,000 for livestock subloans, and US$100,000 for all other
sub-loans, with an overall limit of US$200,000 to any individual village
or entity (Section 2.02(b)(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
These limits are sufficiently high so as to give TRDB a significant decision
making responsibility and any sub-loan beyond these limits would be subject
to the Association's approval. Secondly, funds under the line of credit
allocated to seasonal loans would be limited to crops for which there are
established practices and would only be disbursed if the total number of
seasonal loans in the particular region for any fiscal year is greater than
the number of loans made in the previous fiscal year (Section 2.03 and
Schedule 1, para. 2, of the draft Project Agreement). Credit would be
limited to subprojects which meet TRDB's usual lending criteria such as good
management, proper maintenance of books and accounts, prompt repayment of
previous loans and economic viability of the enterprise (Schedule 1, para. 1,
of the draft Project Agreement). Finally, the use of funds provided under
this line of credit would be limited to five regions selected in consultation
with the Association (Schedule 1, para. 1, of the draft Project Agreement).
The selection would be on the basis of established demand for credit and where
TRDB's activities are expected to materially increase during the project
period. This would also facilitate monitoring and evaluation of project
results within the short span of the project period as a gauge for future
lending to TRDB and expansion of its activities under future projects.
56.       Interest Rate and Financial Structure.  TRDB will charge an annual
interest rate of 7.5% on all medium-term loans and 8.5% on all short-term
loans to Villages and Cooperatives, 9% on all loans to parastatals and
District Development Corporations, and 10% on all loans to individuals,
partnerships, companies and associations engaged in rural development (Section
4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft



- 18 -
Project Agreement). At the anticipated portfolio mix, the weighted average
annual interest rate would approximate 8.5%, which would be sufficient to
allow TRDB to break even. However, such a rate would not cover fully the
cost of maintaining the real value of TRDB's equity base as the current
inflation rate in Tanzania is around 17% and is expected to decelerate over
the period 1981 to 1982 to about 12%.   The Government argues that the main-
tenance of low rural interest rates is part of its more general effort to
encourage investment by smallholders and to draw them from subsistence pro-
duction into producing a marketable surplus. The Government also thinks that
the level of interest rates has no major influence on domestic savings and
resource mobilization in a rural economy where the prices of essential agri-
cultural inputs and final produce are both tightly regulated. The Association
intends to continue its discussion with the Government and TRDB on the level
of interest rates within the framework of our on-going economic work. TRDB
has agreed not to permit its debt-equity ratio to exceed 60:40 without the
Association's Agreement (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
57.       Recovery of Loans.  Prior to 1977, TRDB provided 1% of the loans
approved in any year for bad and doubtful debts. As of June 30, 1976, the
arrears of principal and interest amounted to TSh. 72 million against which
the provision was only TSh. 16 million or about 22% of arrears. By June
1978 the arrears reached TSh. 173 million, due mainly to the dissolution of
cooperative unions and the liquidation of the Tanzania Road Haulage Company.
Reflecting this, TRDB increased its provision for bad debt to TSh. 55 million
in 1977 and to TSh. 74 million in 1978. In addition, TRDB has been pursuing
the issue of cooperative union debts with Government. In response the
Government has undertaken to take appropriate action to remedy any financial
loss to TRDB resulting from the cooperative union bad debts (Section 3.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). In any case, all debts due from
dissolved cooperatives would be liquidated by June 30, 1981.
58.       The project is designed to assist TRDB to reduce the accumulation
of arrears in the future. TRDB has already adopted a policy aimed at cutting
villages off from future loans unless they repay outstanding ones and in some
cases foreclosing on defaulters. Educating the village officials in credit
concepts and accounting (para. 45), improving TRDB's billing procedures (para.
47), and efficient follow-up and supervision would help alleviate this prob-
lem. Also, extending credit only to those villages with good credit records
constitutes an important factor in the recovery of loans. In addition, in
order to facilitate credit recovery, each crop marketing authority responsible
for the purchase of agricultural produce from TRDB's borrowers will deduct
and promptly pay to TRDB the aggregate amount due by such borrowers to TRDB
in respect to seasonal inputs based on information provided by TRDB to the
crop marketing authorities (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). TRDB will notify each crop marketing authority, before the
commencement of each crop marketing season of the aggregate amount of prin-
cipal, interest and other charges due from each borrower in respect of credit
provided by TRDB for seasonal inputs (Section 3.02 of the draft Project
Agreement). The repayments due to TRDB could then be automatically deducted



- 19 -
from the villages by the crop marketing authorities on the strength of the
irrevocable authorization provided by the villages at the time of making the
loans, and credited to TRDB. This system is expected to improve loan recovery
consiclerably as seasonal loans represent the bulk of TRDB's lending operations.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
59.       The total cost of the project is estimated at TSh. 110.0 million
(US$13.3 million equivalent). Project cost net of taxes and duties is US$12.8
million of which US$6.8 million or about 53% in foreign exchange and US$6.0
million in local currency. Local taxes, principally import duties, estimated
at TSh. 3.9 million (US$0.5 million) are included in the total project cost.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million equivalent would finance 78% of
net project costs, covering all the foreign exchange costs and 54% of the
-local costs. The Government would provide US$2.5 million (US$2.0 million net
of taxes and duties) (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment), and would bear the foreign exchange risk. The proceeds of the IDA
credit would be relent to TRDB for 20 years including 5 years of grace at an
annual interest rate not exceeding 4% (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Incorporating these arrangements into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government and TRDB will be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01(a)) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). TRDB
will provide, out of its own resources, the equivalent of US$0.8 million.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Contracts for vehicles estimated to cost about US$0.8 million,
including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference
margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competiig imports or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be granted to qualified local manufacturers
for purpose of bid comparison. The following items are not expected to
attract international competition and would be awarded after local competitive
bidding: furniture, office equipment and computer materials (about US$0.5
million), and construction of about three houses for the training experts
(about US$0.2 million). TRDB would use its regular procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory, in respect of purchases on behalf of its borrowers
under the general line of credit (US$6.0 million). Computer machines (US$0.8
million) would be procured in a manner to be decided in consultation with
the Association, after the recommendations of the consultants hired for this
purpose are known (para. 47). All consultants and experts to be financed under
the project (US$1.5 million) would be selected in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). The office
accommodation (US$1.4 million) has been tendered and awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding following existing Government procedures which
are satisfactory. However, as noted above, this will not be financed by the
Association. Tender evaluation documents would be reviewed prior to contract
award except for contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each.



- 20 -
61.       Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of (a) 100% of
the foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures on vehicles, computer
machines, consultant services, experts and training courses; (b) 80% of local
expenditures on furniture, office equipment and computer materials; (c) 70% of
local expenditures on construction of houses, incremental staff salaries and
benefits, and operating costs of the mobile training units; and (d) 80% of the
incremental loans disbursed by TRDB under the general line of credit. With-
drawal claims for expenditures on vehicles, computer machines, office furni-
ture and equipment, computer materials, construction of houses, consultants
and experts would be fully documented. Disbursements against local training
courses, staff salaries and benefits, and operating costs of mobile training
units would be against certified statements of expenditures signed by the
Managing Director of TRDB. Disbursements under the general line of credit for
subloans would be against statements of expenditures signed by TRDB's Managing
Director certifying that (i) subloans are made in one of the selected regions;
(ii) for seasonal inputs subloans, such subloans are incremental to the total
previous year's loans in that region; and (iii) no funds were received by TRDB
to cover the specific loan from any other source. The appraisal mission has
examined TRDB's accounting procedures and staffing, and found that TRDB is
capable of maintaining the documentation and records. The records and accounts
covering expenditures for which disbursements would be made against statement
of expenditures would be subject to a specific auditing and TRDB will retain,
until one year after the closing date, all records evidencing these expenditures
(Section 4.01 of the draft Project Agreement). TRDB's accounts would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; within six
months after the end of each fiscal year audited accounts would be submitted
to the Association (Section 4.02 (a) of the draft Project Agreement). A
separate opinion from an independent auditor in respect of the expenditures
and records related to statements of expenditures, will be prepared and
submitted to the Association not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (Section 4.02 (a)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement). It is
recommended that expenditures incurred after October 31, 1979 on recruitment
of consultants to study TRDB's management information system, up to an amount
of US$100,000, be financed retroactively under the credit.
Prospects and Justification
62.       TRDB has been acting as a conduit for the Association and other
bilateral aid funds aimed at a specific crop or project; decisions on who
gets the funds and for what purpose are made largely outside TRDB. Conse-
quently, these credits have contributed very little to TRDB's institutional
capability and long term development even though they may have improved short
and medium term crop production. The principal purpose of the proposed
project is to strengthen TRDB as an institution.
63.       The strengthening of TRDB under the Project is expected to yield
a number of benefits; at the most basic level it would allow TRDB staff to
fulfill routine demands which must be carried out by any financial institu-
tion. The streamlining of its organizational structure and the installation
of computer machines to handle the increased load would produce the added
advantages of a wide range of information necessary for effective management.



- 19 -
from the villages by the crop marketing authorities on the strength of the
irrevocable authorization provided by the villages at the time of making the
loans, and credited to TRDB. This system is expected to improve loan recovery
considerably as seasonal loans represent the bulk of TRDB's lending operations.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
59.       The total cost of the project is estimated at TSh. 110.0 million
(US$13.3 million equivalent). Project cost net of taxes and duties is US$12.8
million of which US$6.8 million or about 53% in foreign exchange and US$6.0
million in local currency. Local taxes, principally import duties, estimated
at TSh. 3.9 million (US$0.5 million) are included in the total project cost.
The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million equivalent would finance 78% of
net project costs, covering all the foreign exchange costs and 54% of the
local costs. The Government would provide US$2.5 million (US$2.0 million net
of taxes and duties) (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment), and would bear the foreign exchange risk. The proceeds of the IDA
credit would be relent to TRDB for 20 years including 5 years of grace at an
annual interest rate not exceeding 4% (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Incorporating these arrangements into a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement between the Government and TRDB will be a condition of effec-
tiveness (Section 6.01(a)) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). TRDB
will provide, out of its own resources, the equivalent of US$0.8 million.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Contracts for vehicles estimated to cost about US$0.8 million,
including contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference
margin equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost of competing imports or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be granted to qualified local manufacturers
for purpose of bid comparison. The following items are not expected to
attract international competition and would be awarded after local competitive
bidding: furniture, office equipment and computer materials (about US$0.5
million), and construction of about three houses for the training experts
(about US$0.2 million). TRDB would use its regular procurement procedures,
which are satisfactory, in respect of purchases on behalf of its borrowers
under the general line of credit (US$6.0 million). Computer machines (US$0.8
million) would be procured in a manner to be decided in consultation with
the Association, after the recommendations of the consultants hired for this
purpose are known (para. 47). All consultants and experts to be financed under
the project (US$1.5 million) would be selected in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement). The office
accommodation (US$1.4 million) has been tendered and awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding following existing Government procedures which
are satisfactory. However, as noted above, this will not be financed by the
Association. Tender evaluation documents would be reviewed prior to contract
award except for contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each.



- 20 -
61.       Disbursements under the credit would be on the basis of (a) 100% of
the foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures on vehicles, computer
machines, consultant services, experts and training courses; (b) 80% of local
expenditures on furniture, office equipment and computer materials; (c) 70% of
local expenditures on construction of houses, incremental staff salaries and
benefits, and operating costs of the mobile training units; and (d) 80% of the
incremental loans disbursed by TRDB under the general line of credit. With-
drawal claims for expenditures on vehicles, computer machines, office furni-
ture and equipment, computer materials, construction of houses, consultants
and experts would be fully documented. Disbursements against local training
courses, staff salaries and benefits, and operating costs of mobile training
units would be against certified statements of expenditures signed by the
Managing Director of TRDB. Disbursements under the general line of credit for
subloans would be against statements of expenditures signed by TRDB's Managing
Director certifying that (i) subloans are made in one of the selected regions;
(ii) for seasonal inputs subloans, such subloans are incremental to the total
previous year's loans in that region; and (iii) no funds were received by TRDB
to cover the specific loan from any other source. The appraisal mission has
examined TRDB's accounting procedures and staffing, and found that TRDB is
capable of maintaining the documentation and records. The records and accounts
covering expenditures for which disbursements would be made against statement
of expenditures would be subject to a specific auditing and TRDB will retain,
until one year after the closing date, all records evidencing these expenditures
(Section 4.01 of the draft Project Agreement). TRDB's accounts would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; within six
months after the end of each fiscal year audited accounts would be submitted
to the Association (Section 4.02 (a) of the draft Project Agreement). A
separate opinion from an independent auditor in respect of the expenditures
and records related to statements of expenditures, will be prepared and
submitted to the Association not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (Section 4.02 (a)(ii) of the draft Project Agreement). It is
recommended that expenditures incurred after October 31, 1979 on recruitment
of consultants to study TRDB's management information system, up to an amount
of US$100,000, be financed retroactively under the credit.
Prospects and Justification
62.       TRDB has been acting as a conduit for the Association and other
bilateral aid funds aimed at a specific crop or project; decisions on who
gets the funds and for what purpose are made largely outside TRDB. Conse-
quently, these credits have contributed very little to TRDB's institutional
capability and long term development even though they may have improved short
and medium term crop production. The principal purpose of the proposed
project is to strengthen TRDB as an institution.
63.       The strengthening of TRDB under the Project is expected to yield
a number of benefits; at the most basic level it would allow TRDB staff to
fulfill routine demands which must be carried out by any financial institu-
tion. The streamlining of its organizational structure and the installation
of computer machines to handle the increased load would produce the added
advantages of a wide range of information necessary for effective management.



- 21 -
Most important, however, the project would strengthen TRDB's ability to
provide credit in an efficient manner to economically viable rural develop-
ment projects, assisting in increasing village production and farmers income.
Risks
64.       The major risks of the project are those attached to the credit
component, i.e, the problems of credit recovery. Because large grants and
subsidies in one form or another have been given to settlement schemes and
Ujamaa villages, loans in the minds of many people came to mean grants.
However, TRDB has already begun a policy aimed at educating the villages in
the concepts of credit through seminars for village officials, cutting
villages off from future loans unless they repay outstanding ones and in some
cases foreclosing on defaulters. This project is designed to minimize this
risk by supporting TRDB's ongoing efforts in this area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and TRDB and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The draft Development Credit Agreement includes the following
additional conditions of effectiveness:
(a) execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and TRDB (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement); and
(b) appointment of TRDB's Regional Directorate Head
(Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
FebruaryP13, 1980



-22-                                             Annex I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
R EFRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AyYRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                  - MOST RCENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            945.1                                                    SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     510.1                                 KOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        LSJCOME
16O  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE tb        REGION /c   GROUP !d    GRouP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$U                   70.0       120.0      230.0           306.1       209.6       467.5
ENERGY CONSUM?TION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQuIVLF2T)       41.0         62.0      68.0             80.6       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YUR (5LILLIONS)      10.2        13.3       16.4
URBsA  POPULATION (PECENT OF TOTAL)  4.8          6.9        9.2.           17.1        16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       32.0
STATIONALY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACEID                  2145
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        l.0        14.0       17.0            18.4       49.4         45.3
PER SQ. KM. AGILICULTURAL LAND     21.0        26.0      32.0             50.8      252.0        149.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.4         46.5      46.0             44.1       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                         51.0         51.1      51.0             52.9       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.6         2.4       3.0              2.8        3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROVWR RATE (PEICENtT)
TOTAL                               2.2         2.7       3.0              2.7        2.4          2.7
URBAN                               5.0         6.3       8.5              5.7        4.6          4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.0        47.0       48.0            46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATS RATE (PER THOUSAND)      22.0        19.0       16.0            17.2        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.2        3.2             3.1        2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..          ..      93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..        ..               ..       12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PEU CAPITA (1969-71-LOO)           95.3       104.0      93.0             94.3       98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    69.0        88.0      86.0             89.5       93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRMS PER DAY)           42.0         43.0      47.1             55.8       52.1        54.3
OF WHICS ANML AMD PULSE          22.0/Lh     23.0      20.0             17.9       13.6         17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) .M0TALITY RATE      32.0        25.0       20.0            22.3        18.5        11.4
NEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BLRTs (YEARS)    42.0         47.0      51.0             47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        155.0L   125.0                ..      105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        13.0      39.0             20.3       26.3         34.4
URBAN                                .         61.0      88.0             53.9       58.5         57.9
RURAL                                ..         9.0      36.0             10.1       Ls5.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
o  POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..      17.0             22.5       16.0         40.8
URBAN                                ..          ..      88.0             62. 5      65.1         71.3
RURAL                                ..          ..       14.0            13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PRYSICLAN         21000.OLi   20677.0   18490.O/f         17424.7    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      8300.0LjJ   4641.0    3300.07f         2506.6     5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             575.0Li     684.0         ..           502.3     1417.1        726.5
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..            201.4      197.3       272.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..          1403.6     2445.9       L404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..            23.4       24.8         27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..         4.4[R      ..              4.9        5.3          5.4
URBAN                                ..         3.2Lg      ..              4.9        4.9         5.1
RURAL                                ..         4.5/L     5.3              5.5        5.4          5.5
AV'RAGE NUMSER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..
URMAN                                ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TO.AL                                ..          ..         .               .        22.5         28.1
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..       .7.8         45.1
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ,.         ..          9. 9



Annex I
-23
Page 2 of 6
TAJLZ 3A
TANZANIA - SOCTAL INDICATOItS DATA SHEET
R"ER QNCE GROUPS (AgJUSTE0 AyERGES
TANZANIA                       - IDST RtCENT ESTIMATE) t
SAtlE       SAKE     NEXT HIGIIkER
MOST RECtNT     GOGCAPHIC    INCOME         INCOte
190 /b      1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /c
EDUCATION
AWUSTED ENiOLl ENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 28.0         38.0      70.0             59.0       63.3         82.7
MALE                  37.0        46.0       79.0             64.2       79.1         87.3
FEMALE                20.0        30.0       60.0            44.2        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          3.0       3.0              9.0        16.7        21.4
MALY                   2.0         4.0        5.0             12.0       22.1         33.0
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0        2.0             4.4        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)  23.0            ..         ..             7.0         5.6         9.8
7UPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRINAIY                            45.0         46.0      50.0             42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          20.0         19.0      20.0             22.9       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.5/i       28.1/S    66.0             20.8        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PU THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          2.5       2.8              4.0        2.8          9.3
ADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         11.0      19.0             44.3       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PR THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          0.3        ..              2.9        2.4         13.5
SEzSP&PzR ("DArLY  GNERAL
INTESEsT") CIRCULATION PER
THUSAND POPULATION                    3.0          5.0       4.5              5.6         5.3        18.3
CNEMIA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5            ..       0.2              0.4         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4578.0       5769.0    6488.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.1         36.6      36.3             31.9       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PCEIT)                89.3         86.0      84.0             77.6       69.4         62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.8          5.0       6.0              7.9       10.0         11.9
PAtTICEIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7         43.5      42.2             40.8       36.9         37.1
MALE                                 56.9         55.7      54.3             53.9        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               32.8         31.5      30.3             25.6        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1         1.1       1.2              1.2         1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
P.ERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIH.HEST 5 PERCENT OF EOUSEROLWS     ..         33.5        ..               ..          ..        15.2
RICHEST 20 P8RCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          63.3        ..               ..          ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS      ..          2.3        ..               ..         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS      ..          7.8        ..               ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY lYCOffE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     117.0            187.6       99.2        241.3
&URAL                                ..           ..      89.0             96.8       78.9        136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      97.0            138.4       9i.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..      61.0             71.0       54.8        103.7
ESTIM1ATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      25.0             34.5       44.1         24.8
RURAL                                ..           ..      85.0             48.7       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
YOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-veighted geoaserric means. excluding the eatreme
values of the indicator and the sost populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not unifori.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
(5281-550 per capita. 19767    If  MainIand Tanzania;  L/  1967;   /h   961-63;   /I  1962;   /I  Regis.
tered, not all practice in the country.
Most Racent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



-24-
Page 3 of 6
EM. ALthOOeh tho dlo.at. we    ... ft.. -Oal.  pomrollY jodgod th. sens  outhoCiotatte  ad raoitbh.. it Oo.ald .10. ho  ted Chet th.  y a   -t ho I.t.-
eaoiwt0lly capdrablo hMCAo   of tie, lok of ocad.wdlood doftoictoos ad eomoopt   sod by dl flwoost countries t. wollooting tho d...  Tb. dot. a.". ses.otblood.
M.If  Lo d..crlb. owd.na of apottdo. 1.4100. t I d, ad chowactertas Sorcoo  wj.  dittfew...., hotw.... ometrios.
TM. odiuttad swoon. .owase. fo, sash todotow  aw" populatia-mtgbtsed  SesstrL. Mone     I.dift  tho .otri   ooI.    of who  .t"totw  so.d twho mt
7poplotad -owyL"a in oh Stoo. Cosowoto Of Cesvetles som the 104100ctr doponda .0 o..ttobLliy of dot. ood Lo Mot vatoUa. h . t lock of data.
.,mop asor.... for CapIttl S." 1-t  OILIpttReorts   .04 lindetoto , of t      s .0.. toMew ad secrete dlopsea.&  hanoi.8. imcmo ditiorbotbo  0.  poverty ar.
Opto. popoi*t --otSht d g.mtuit u00100 .tths: tho walusten of "woowm voki....
LAD  U   (thoc.ood sq. km)                                                               Potco   owhodott.ho              tto.rh.a               ,l-P9oito(te.
Tool-Total mowLto  waaw.l    a    w aad  SaOWLingot. oSIM..ad  corl) 4                                                1. h 1thi  wooPoeoI. SW r Of hospItal hod
*gi.1 a     Moo   weot al   tlato  of oAWIMIStow.1 at". Mod caorawily              ooollb..l  L. pohltc .04 priooL. powol Md opecialioed hoopitol .0d r*-
or pomeWosoly fo, crop..posorLo.   thomt ad hitch.. gzood. ow to                         obiLitotloo Ctooroo.  Vhopleao oWe ootahlIsaiote poreoooetly Staffed by
II  fsiot,o  1oot coo PhyotLca.   sLtabliabseeto  pwowtdlag principally caotodill
Core ow.  ot Swauldod.  lorol hopitalo, MO*tsw * 10104  health .04 WWI-
Q:.T Pru  CITA CONSS) - GRP Pow  "topic  "CmCs..  Ot CrANCTI  Mwet pCUc..                  "I --otors Mt p.rootlr Staffe ob y a pbpoClco   (but hby a iditol M-
c.al'.ated by ow  CQ,oostLOQ .01004 o. VOtIA 8.k Ala. (1911-77 heial.)                  olatede. outg. otldifo. ott.)  khich offe  .o-powiast .tc.mdatio. Me
1960. 1970. .04 1977 dot..                                                              prwid. A limied rook" of moditl fouiltlo.
hdoa.tooor  oeotI hod - Total "or  of ad0.Imaeo to or dl..co.g
*NCW  COISIlfTIt  nl CAPIA - A00a01 ,OWMpC10    Of crch l searR                            fwo  hoohial.  1.0        b   hoohoCf  o.
(t.ol ad hlolto,   .twolao..  atooal p         dhbyir.-. oMcl.o   ad ma-
thoroa  alootwltit) I0 biloim.s of to                     Poiwb tpo  -apia.           ui
AvotA.. else of houoohold (coot... por Mhoa.oldi - total. arban. 00d coral -
POPIULATION AIM V:1OO.ST TIfTICS                                                           A ho..fo.   toolot :of a S.ooP of Ladleidao.l  uho   M..w hoilst qorteow
Toa    o,1               's   Oilz          As h  of Jnay 1; If Mtw ovoj.Iloho            0.d theiw  -oot  moalo   A hordor  Tw lessor soy or 0y tot ho 10.1ld04 is
.                                 1h0  170  ad 177do..wh  household f ow Statistical porpo...  Seotlslti.s  dofat toato.  of bot,n
((rhat rosalotis. C .w;ztoo   fttl      al   fahot  oa   0..                              hold  aroy.
elot; dlffow.ot A.fiottlose of -rb. orot. my ofo.wc tapoprohility                    Loot... oo.ado  o  oro.    sow  O.U    - ttol.  Iwbo. a04 rtotl - A-erase ot..-
If data   a   totra.                                                                    hwo        of   o  w oe Ial. arb..  0.d totI ovtooi.d c.o.otlo.o
toost.Lot                                                                                 6eel,  olline., woopectl.oly.  hoollIa. ootlado oo wonport streceorw., .04
P.     4   c.- Old-root popoltloo pt oq4cr  h1lmosotr (105 Isoctawool             mwcopiod potte.
oiit. ro                                                                              Actos  to olot'Itlty (bo-sat of dwollio.sC  - total.  ChtO. ad  mrot1
I.   o.t.ooi,lot  Icod - Coosp.tad M. AMew  fa  ag,imIootowal 1.04                       Cowotlo   d.lis.lo   oith oleetriLey in itoiwo qottoro  As porceotog
owlv.                                                                                   of total. atha. -ad  tta  d.oalIloaa 'es.pottlwly.
PPooulae- oo  cotro(otw)      hl.                  (0-16   M.) ytsl * inttia"-
(15-h. ~ ~    ~     "'"t ror)*  drti   6  ros ad  -w) as Poweoawe.     of 014-  UGCAT1O(
rootpolti tA. dioso  .wwoLlovat wotlo-
P.p,l1tio  oro.th Ctat  (p.rctOt) - total. and ,.4an - Coopoood ooolPyor  oho    totl.  ".4 floI  - Total ad feeal. orollIAat of ell ooa.
O1tIohto.o   oa   dohn0470    ooaiw    o   904.a   h  prloary"ft                                          Iowo  a. p-wtootaoo  of toptio7ptioot  othool-oS.
19U_0.0.ad 1970-75.                                                                     popotltooa;  ow.oally 10*14.. childr  aogad 6-11 year. hot .4jotod for
Cr-d  birth  rtot  Coot tboonsod) - Aa-&I li11. births por thoo...od of                   diffaoeot lostiho of pwiaa7odotto  for Ctoooti.  04th ooI-ool 040-
.ld-y:., popalatio; towroa  a         -tIctatlt  *la os dle Lto 1964 ad                 totid. oow1loot   yT soctod 100 pottcot ... ow  pplla  ow. bol-o
190  d0  f i.-ysr ...O 0ag  adIos to 1975 fot Me.t r-.t ootioto.                       bora. the off icial school age.
C..:. d.0th taco (D., tihOosd) - Atto1t d0th. Pow thao-.od of Oid-                      sa.codar, .thool - total. ad  foslo - Cospotd 00 tho.; .... ~.ry .4,.--
otpopolatioa; iso-eoar -rIt.oatl . .wa...g  "dli"  10 1960 ad 1970                   eta  tout.o  loost foot root. of apprord priw, ifhet-tcia; pro-
.4f Iouro  a".oe' al    I  19751 ow,  -Lo trct ostiato.                                Ld-. *o--rI .tatl-al. or tooth- twoIAinL otw,att1    lot P.pil.
.r00   =OtdotOOttsM      A""so  ""a", of daohtoto   ossor  will hoot                   vosolly of 12 to 17 year, of .6oo:   orspood-oo   coooo  aro  sot-lly
lIt tot so-I   WdPodteO. polled if oh. -P.tteots, PtOoc0t 030-                         astlodd.
opocif ic fertility r.coc; -ooolly fits-root serstq.o  -odIn  in 1960,                oal.lorlit(otw   fotwar  - Vottiowl issottttioo. It-
1970. a d 1975.                                                                         olo ethwltol. ind-attlol. o- otbor pCgoaro 061c  operat.  od.pw.dOotly
Val,olaio    a:oeto  aool to.oad. _ias                    .ttof                   ow oo do otsmt  of  ootd.wy tootitotitoo..
twPL.w  of bitch-control 4-0.1*0  a         opI_a  of eotl.ool I ally             poo11-c.acbe, r*tIO - VII-Y, ad ascood.t, - Total  totttt. arolld is
Plowisptoa.piooy  Ad  sotoodety 1-l. dlo 4.dd0 by .o-Mro  of toothero  La thetot.
Iatl  oloWir  .  ...rs Cpo'oo. of Oatrie woool   Pasotatoo  of                          P.bohdlo, 10. 1.
soLrrood o""o lof cksld-b.*.Iof a. .(I5-4g root) ot   o  bLrtb-to rol                 -.lt11 otc  tacmo Cotwet) - Limotoc  ad.lts (ablo to rosd ad  -it.) 0
dormes. tO01 .arrnd 4          10 tow  o.  CtZo.                                        A pCotorts  oftoal ad.It p"ptlotia agnd 15 rears ad to,ot.
FOOD AMl ltMIT10O Nt9ar
todow offo     Iordt" tlo  no  toLe. (1970-100) - Zada no.br of pot                    boMaoo.r tots (so  theoa   ooaltow"             Poootaco. -epries, Om,o tot.
tapi. .oolptooctow   f .11 faod  .. osedttMiot"I..                             otbebotha  sokae protoso;    sd o a.oLats., Mhe.tao  ad oliteory
IT oot  spl of tOlorl.o (sortoot of  r.it)- looaptod ft.                       vohtl.O.
00407  qorobotof ooC food sp .  ovilabl. to comntry pot -spit.                  I.1*r.sior   (sew  th-ased  Monltloo) -All typos of  -oco.... fow  Codio
pot day.  A_illObla soppli.. tooprie, d.oesstlt prod.ctlae. Ioprottls.b                btoodte"t. to lsotol poblit pot cbhOtod of poposltl.; oclod.s al-Owo
ar"-.to, aed thag&k    0.0t 1         .."ooIles, oaclado aool fad. oood.,             rocel.t  10 tootri.. ad  Iw roars  h-o roIic.tiota of radio sets wo  I.
qqootiti"o  -ad 10 fadd tw      ACoosifo.  d boo. 1. diotibtrlotb.  t-                 ffotet; dot. for Coroset yoots ooy Me b. torabl.  als   met t-atla.
qoltoesat  a. - ootla       by FA   ed  M pbystologltal .0.4. fot OOt-                aheLOho   licausiog.
oo    tiity ad  haalth  Oooeid.rtto   e oovttootal taqwoteaot. body                 TVrtiooCo   hodoolto)-Tv rtojooro  f.  b roodt.st to garotA
ta', tot vaoo ot  boua-hed losal.                                                       ttboo ad IA years show ti.trti-b of TV Mrta o L. eA ffort.
P.r Iool.  .:oI, of  -totio (Cosse sor do,) - ProtoIa cootot ofpo                       oootcro1i.wLrtooadowli) -r :Sad. tk.  "vrs   "Cittl.
..Pit. -t otaply of food Pow day.  See.t  Vply of food Lo doflood M                                                                         lI fdiyttlLtto    .ppr.dfood a. A porbd4c.1 pbhli-
at...   loqIrsetmot  f or .11 coott?lo  .otOhllahd by USDA PT-vido for                  -tolo   do,o.4 poloatily to to....di&$ S..owo1 w- .  It to to.tderod to
a .10cm  Ollmeo   of hi S.'r  of total Prto10i pow day ad 20 stee                       he 'dah1y" if Lt appor. ot loote f-r t1soo, o  Ook .
of MuIMI. ad polea protoo, af  bhiC  10 areas shold he arle.l protoin.              Ciome omoal "    ttadasd    at tP oftp  soL  rv-  - Sao.4 a  the sebr of ticheto
ih... otoodod .or.-. o ttchow theas  of 75 gto  of total prowolo ad                     old dottoo the Yo-r. iotldlog odb.toio  to drio-i0 tI.a   aed  ohbuo
23 sta.  2f Alol protoin oO a  wretg. f or th.e atld. p0,00.4 by                        aLto.
PAO in thef Thr   oidod  Suo.y.
P.r 0.51cC pr=ol sasly ho.d abal Sad Pato. - Prot.Ob ""pIT of fadw
dawrtd  too  Mt-I.d pastov M 10 usrw  pow  "Y.                                      Total Iobr fort. (th-oands) - t.ceesically Stl,. paso.., *   cIAldIo 4otd
child (00.0 1.5atlt   ooCo  h'oo) -  oa  doothe Pow thm.o-.                               fort, aed Looplord Wot atlodIa  hooitvao. .todea. Ott.  D.f 1-
-d L. og. tro  1-'Mao.t   hIldtM  IA thl. 030 SCOOP.                                     i.1   oio   o.ro w.  otcoatl.
Faaa Cowowt  -F.oloIshot to-t  00 p-ttate  of totL&  labor fort...
StALinLttott   sott   Lbt.fo.. 10 fa-soto   foesotry. h-otuo  aed f-l.10
Lit. astot   t biwb(voo                    S ro o aoo- of Troot  of lf 1M.  0-Crtotams  of cocol I.ht  oro
'wIln   ttbrheapotyI o-or  000    dIeI   96.17.                                 1..1,Cotoc             Labor for..to 1ooiit. cootroett-ow   inolfwcrLuS aed
aed 1975.                                                        oloe~~~~~~~~~~~1,twiti    atrw ad .a .O prowtato   of total 1.MCr forte..
Iwf.ot   ttalitytat.  oth . . .od   - A.ul deathe of lofoto  _ado               Fatootiow    t. Cootto) _ total. M 1.. ad tonal. - Total. -I.1. ad
00yZw  o  so  po  toaoo  10         htttO                                            f .awloho   fort, asw portooos.iofthcl, rem. r.tting pOpo-oio
AtOs.. t.1. motr (ootc=of notal) - total. otha Ad = tota                                   thfo  at.r 1ft. P.d lti-. M odtIc ottn  tlos troflott          ol
Ot-Mo  of poopl. (tta    nho, ad  ota) 0th r.04ohoS..   o0trcooofwoppolta1.4lgti    rd
of1. esc.r apply (iseltdo. twosto  sufrfa, setota  ow Otrootad hot                  ttoooSc 4..-.d.o, ratio  - BOctt  of poposltia   co  15 ad 65 ad o.-T to
-ataaoortoad  -oter sch se thae f.to  poowtotd Meholohe. aptiags.                       the lhor forto  J. 00 Swoop of 15-66 root..
adsaIar    ll.)  .o p.Cn"taSo  of their reopcttlos Ppopwlati.oo..
Ms a    "o area o pohli.to fot.0 ow  tandpot loeotad Mot Mr,c                     oucai Dzmimnoy
thaw 200                                                                                                 ..osIwoohw.-    oooio.  t   o8wtI   a  .,to    fo o. loceso, (both IA 0.06 ad  hko) Oraliod by tineo"t 
Meol .t    f that Mouo   1. totL "Ow  ra-oMo-bl. wct.s0 0514                     porcate. richest 20 p-wost. por-ot 20 porea. ad poorot 40 potoat
10117 cht th  h-so-If. or ohoers of the h-oMshld do oot ha. to                          of beeoso.hld.
ood0dspeedrbat  port of the day 10 foethiwg the fmLlyro
tOtOt .0040.                                                  POVU~~~~~~~~?MTT TADGIT GROUPS
Acoosto    : o .tow   disposal (osoc  fsooata    - total orbow. a                    tatboowed stooloto oo-at, Ioom loo C-               orei        -torba  ad  total-
rwtol -9aoot  f pal.  totl.  tbot  adtotl)  .t-v.d by aremmt                Aboolat. po-oty lo-   1o-l 10 that ltnlwlhl   60      io
dioposal. o    I p t gaoao   of thoir.. wop-ot- p.pil.tloo..  t-Otto                     atrltl.oolly adoqoow  4d01 plo. ...-toli oota  rtoqrttt    10 tot
dl.po.0..  007 i0,1.60 th. .Ilotiow  ad dipo.-I. wtCh or  ittoot                        offoCdablo.
L'"taot, of ho-   ooxroc. 00  oss-ct    by wocot-borM  Otorot                        .toatodt to1loelv       y~.r IAtom     ltrl(015I sor cos ) -  rtho  ad totol-
owte   PI o   L p"Imtc  paod 5101     Ioastallattw.a                            tobotiso Po.-ty iwo.1..   0t at 10c    lo-d  las thea Oo-thltd
Poslto  o    hyottiot - lpo. tlo  diuidodb   td o  pratti.tlO                     PTtpioprol   toof the  ConTt
Po.ltO    C .010owo- Popol.ti.. diVided by w,.hr of                                    -Oatoa   of popalotion  (owba ad trt). ) ,ho ar   ihr'            e Cbt   00O
ptattitfro  la   d :         gradoot  oorM.o  proctitAl  --ra. ad                         r. tati.. poor  whithar..r 10 groot-t
easoioatt oat.r.
L.-O.I. ad social 0.0. 01,i.1.0
ItotAolysi. ad PoJ otlmi. S.Oprtsevat



TANZANIA                                                                               Page 4 of 6
Economic DeveloPment Data Sheet
7                   ~~~~~~1977
Actual                                    Provisional                     Proiected                          Averg e         % Annal Os  Rtes            tare of
1972        1973         1974         1975        1976         1977         1978        1979         1980         1985         199         12                77          18- lF
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Million US $ at 1977 riese)
1.  GDP                                              2773.9       2662.2       3004.7       3119.4      3364.1       3542.4       3734.1      3890.2       4069.7       5105.8       6502.3          5.0             4.7        4.9             100.0
2.  Gais from Teens of Trade (TT)                   -161.0       -207.5       -348.9       -345.7       -69.9       -116.1       -135.2      -174.5       -223.4       -251.8       -278.4           .3.3
3.  Gross Donestic Income                            2612.9       2454.7       2655.8       2773.7      3294.2       3426.3       3598.9      3715.6       3846.2       4854.1       6223.9          5.6             4.4        5.1              96.7
4.  Imports                                          1084.7       1010.8        895.4        839.4        751.0       802.4       1063.9       904.8        924.7       1102.8       1330.4         -5.9             4.1         3.8             22.7
5.  BEports - Volume                                 1054.7       1004.5        741.3        734.5       824.5        686.3        674.7       700.8        746.4        907.0       1164.7         -8.2             3.5        5.1              19.4
6.  RExports - TT adjusted                             893.7       803.3        546.5        493.7       681.1        686.3        539.5       526.3        522.9        655.2        886.3         -5.2            -0.6         6.2             19.4
7.  Resource Gap - TT adjusted                         191.0       207.5        348.9        345.7         69.9       116.1        524.4       378.5        401.8        447.6        444.2           .               .           .               3.3
8.  Total Coessaption                                2163.0       1986.3       2403.1       2555.0      2654.9       2986.6       3404.5      3421.1       3540.6       4371.5       5448.3          6.6             4.9         4.5             84.3
9.  Investes.t                                         640.9       682.2        755.7        669.3       635.7        671.9        718.9       673.1        707.4        930.0       1219.8          1.0             4.2         5.6             19.0
10.  NatIonal Savings                                   430.4       464.5        304.1        314.2        676.4       537.1        325.0       412.0        416.6        617.9        951.7          1.1             1.8         9.0             15.2
11.  Domestic Savings                                   449.9       468.4        252.7        218.7        639.3       439.7        194.4       294.6        305.6        482.5        775.6         -0.4             1.2        10.0             12.4
12.  GDP at current US $                              1564.1       1866.2       2239.1       2564.4      2761.4       3542.4       4335.7      4686.5       5393.1       9941.7      18603.0         17.8            13.8        13.3
B.  SECTOR OUTPUT
(Sh-re of GDP at 1977 Prices)-1
1.  Industry                                            16.3        17.5         16.0         15.1         14.4        13.8         13.0        12.7         12.3         12.3         13.2          1.3             3.1         6.4
2.  Agriculture                                         51.1        54.0         46.8         48.6         50.4        51.0         50.8         50.4        50.1         48.3         47.1          4.7             3.8         4.4
3.  Services                                            32.7        28.5         37.2         36.4         35.3        35.2         36.2         36.8        37.6         39.3         39.6          6.3             6.0         5.1
C. PRICES
1.  Eport Price Index                                   36.4        43.3         64.2         63.6        76.7        100.0         91.0        95.9        102.5        142.2        190.8         22.4             4.5         6.0
2.  IDport Price Index                                  43.0        54.1         87.1         94.6         92.8       100.0        113.8        127.7       146.3        196.8        250.7         18.4             8.8         5.0
3.  Ticos of Trade                                      84.7        80.0         73.7         67.2        82.7        100.0         80.0         75.1        70.1         72.2         76.1
4.  GDP Deflator (US $)                                 56.4        70.1         74.5         82.2         82.1       100.0        116.1        120.5       132.5        194.7        286.1         12.1             8.7         8.7
5.  Average REchange Rate (TSb/US$)                    7.143       7.021        7.143        7.414       8.379        8.274        7.689
D. SELECTED INDICATORS                                                1972-77      1978-85      1985-90
1.  ICOR                                                            4.40          3.93        3.72
2.  Daport Elasticity                                              -0.22          0.11        0.77
3.  Average Dastlc Savings Rate                                    17.2           7.3        11.4
4.  Average NRtionaI Savings Rate                                  19.0          10.9        13.8
5.  Marginal Iational Savings Rate                                 -0.24          0.27        0.25
6.  Import/GDP                                                     29.8          23.2        20.9
7.  Inveetsnt/GDP                                                   2.40         18.9        19.4
8.  Resource cap/GDY                                                7.8           9.4         8.0
Prov.       Prov.
E. PUALIC F                                                                                                              Autl         Actual         Est.
(Killion TSbillings)                                 1965/66      1972/73      1973/74     1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78     1978/79
1.  Current Revenue                                     716        2357          3023        3948         3919        5250         6082        6702
1.1 Tax Revenue                                         602        1927          2510        3161        3302         4644         5317        5721
2.  Current Eapesditure                                 707        2223          2785        3961         3716        5022         5847        7670
3.  Government Savings                                    9         134           238         -15         203          228          235        -969
4.  Foreign Grants                                       ..          62           214         377         469          626          709         1250
5. Surplus Available for FInancing
Development Ependiture                           ..          196           452        362          672          894         944          281
G. 6.  Development Expenditurs                              238         956          1642        2225         2253        2763         3585         5057
7.  Overall Deficit                                      ..        -760         -1190       -1863       -1581        -1869        -2641       -4776
8. Financing of the Deficit
Extersal Loans                                   83          456           467        661          564          777         660         1200
Destic Borrowings:
BRnking System                                ..          269          521         834          570          ..          464         3195
other                                         ..           25          202         368          447         ..          1517          581
i/  In 1966 prices and 1977 index bsse year.                                                                                           8AIDA
C central GSmermsent.                                                                                                                 Jjan,ry 3. 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                                                                   Page 5 of 6
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
(Million Us$)
Actual                                         PrelimiinarY            Projection
1972        1973        1974        1975         1976        1977        1978         197         1980         1985        1990
A.  Susmary of Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (incl. NFS)                                        384.3        434.6       476.0       467.0       632.1        686.3       613.9       672.0        765.2      1289.4       2222.0
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                                        466.1        546.8       779.8       793.8       697.1        802.4      1210.7       1155.3      1353.2      2170.2       3335.5
3.  Resource Balance                                           -81.1      -112.2       -303.8      -326.8       -65.0      -116.1       -596.8      -483.3       -588.0      -880.8    -1113.6
4.  Net Factor Service Income                                   -5.9          7.4        -5.2        -7.3         21.5       -18.7       -24.6        -47.5       -66.5      -137.0       -266.8
1. Net Interest Payments of which:                           3.2        11.2         8.9         -3.1       -17.9       -16.4       -15.8        -37.8       -55.9       -119.8      -239.2
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)                    (-11.1       (-12.5)     (-13.6)    (-16.2)    (-19.5)    (-22.1)         (-24.7)    (-27.8)    (-35.0)    (-121.8)   (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investment Income
3.  Workers Remittance (Net)              )                 -9.1       -18.6       -14.1         -4.2        -3.6        -2.3         -8.8        -9.7       -10.6        -17.1       -27.6
4.  Other Factor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                     -4.2          5.0        45.2        92.9         55.4       116.1       175.0        195.0       218.4        384.9       678.3
6.  Balance on Current Account                                 -91.9      -114.6       -263.8      -241.2       -31.1        -18.7      -446.4      -335.8       -436.1      -632.8       -702.0
7.  Private Direct Investment                                    0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0          0.0         5.0         5.4          5.7         6.1          8.6        12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                              14.0         18.6         6.5        34.9          2.9        13.9         0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0         0.0
Public M & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                           109.5        113.6       161.3       249.5        122.4       177.8       173.2        210.5
10.  Amortization 17                                            -34.2        -23.7       -18.8       -18.0        -21.9       -26.4       -26.8        -54.8
11.  Net Disbursements 1/                                        75.3         89.9       142.5       231.5        100.5       151.4       146.4        155.8
12.  Use of IfMF Resources                                         0.0         0.0        60.3         25.2        23.7         8.8        17.0         30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactions                               7.2       -17.9         7.5         -5.1       -38.3        35.1        60.0        120.0
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                                54.8         49.0       -47.4       -30.1       -10.8        -26.0         0.0          0.0
15.  Change in Reserves (- = increase)                          -59.4        -25.0        94.4       -15.2       -46.9       -169.5       229.0         24.3
B.  Grants and Loans Commitment
1.  official Grants 2/                                           9.8         23.6        51.1       127.8        119.0       130.0       200.0        216.0
2.  Public M & LT Loans                                         65.4        107.1       260.4       151.8        194.1       197.3       225.3        269.9
2.1  IBRD                                                    -           -          65.0         30.0        37.0        53.0         25.0        66.0
2.2  IDA                                                    10.8        22.6        61.2         10.0        52.0        49.2         73.5        63.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                                      3.3         1.8          7.1        18.0        10.8        33.5         27.6        18.2
2.4  Governments, of which:                                 47.1        82.8       127.1         93.7        82.7        61.3         98.3        30.0
Centrally planned economies                          4.9         3.0         76.5         5.4         -            -           2.6         -
2.5  Suppliers                                               -           -           -            -           -           -            -          80.0
2.6  Financial Institutions                                  4.2         -            -           -          11.7         0.3          -          10.0
2.7  Bonds                                                                            -                             -            -                 -
2.8  Public Loans, n.e.i. 3/                                 -           -           -            -           -           -            -           2.8
3.  other M & LT Loans (where available)                        26.4         18.6         5.6         2.9          6.0         -
C. Meaorandum Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Comsmitments                         49.2         83.4        63.1        56.4        66.6         56.8        45.5         32.8
Average Interest                                             3.6         0.6          2.3         3.0         2.2         3.2          4.5         5.4
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                                    28.1         47.8        32.2        31.9         38.8        35.1        32.8         25.5
1/ Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1979-1990) on blend Bank/IDA terms.
2/ Excludes technical assistance grants.                                                                                                                EAIDA
3/ Represents commitments to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                               January 2, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                           Page 6 of 6
Debt  and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978
A. Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed Only)
(US $ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)              441.7       557.1       728.3       917.1     1029.2      1123.4      1213.1
2.  Including Undisbursed                                    835.5       987.3      1280.5      1359.0     1555.9      1649.3      1806.4
3.  Public Debt Service                                       43.3        39.3        32.4        34.1       41.6        48.4        49.6
3.1 Interest                                                  11.1        12.3        13.6        16.2       19.5        22.1        24.7
4.  other M & LT Debt Service                                  ..          ..          ..
B. Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                        11.3         9.3         6.8         7.3        6.6          7.1         7.8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                           2.8         2.1         1.4         1.3         1.5         1.4         1.1
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                    14.7        10.3         6.6         6.4.        7.6        7.0         5.8
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                            2.5         2.2         1.9         1.8         1.9         2.0        2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                               9.8         7.1         4.4         3.7        4.0         4.3          4.1
D. Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                   23.5        20.8        20.7        31.4       17.6        22.2        14.5
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                          16.2                                29.2        14
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                          68.8                    HA          92.8       82.1        RI          88
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements              16.9        19.1        10.4        21.0       14.0        17.2        17.8
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements    19.4            21.8        14.0        28.2        37.2       37.8         31.6
3.  TBRD DOD/Total WD                                         12.2        13.4        12.4        15.4        15.1        16.3        17.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                  23.1        23.8        21.1        24.2        25.7       29.3         31.3
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                      10.2        15.3        20.4        26.4       34.1        33.1        40.5
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                11.1        16.3        22.5        28.4       36.5        35.5        43.5
Outstanding December 31. l978
Amount             Percent
(US $ Million)
F. External Debt (Disbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                  209.9                    17.3
2.  Bank Group                                                            379.2                    31.3
3.  Other Multilateral                                                     61.2                     5.0
4.  Governments                                                           714.1                    58.9
of which Centrally Planned Economies                               317.3                   26.2
5.  Suppliers                                                              16.5                     1.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                                 18.8                     1.5
7.  Bonds                                                                  20.3                     1.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.       I/                                            3.1                     6.3
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt                1/                           1213.1                   100.0
10.  Total Public Debt (incl. undisbursed)-                               1806.4                   148.9
G. Debt Profile
1.  Total Debt Service 1979-83/Total DOD End of 1978                       60.5%
I/  Includes Tanzania's notional share of 40% of EAC debt.                                                                                                 EAlDA
2/  Represents DOD on loans to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                                January 2, 1980



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.         Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Four loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                70.2         90.8
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                 10.8      1.4
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                10.3      1.8
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                        18.5     2.7
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                           17.5    10.0
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                         6.0      0.4
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                         21.0                    3.2
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                               8.5      2.1
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                             10.2      3.1
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                               10.0      5.6
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                              9.0                    0.9
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                           10.0      6.2
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                           15.0                    2.3
1172-TA    1975  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                   1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                             6.0      3.1
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                          18.0    11.0
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                  11.0     7.3
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                    30.0            13.0
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                            7.0                   4.0
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                        9.0      7.9
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                               8.0      1.5
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                 15.0                  11.1
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex              11.5             5.5
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                       5.4
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                       7.2      5.7
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                       12.0    11.6
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                        15.0    11.1
1498-TA    1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank         15.0                    8.9
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                27.5    12.1
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                14.0    13.8
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                   12.0    11.2
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                  25.0                   24.9
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                20.0    19.0
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                          14.0    14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                 12.0    12.0
875-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                          30.0    30.0
1650-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper            30.0                   30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                   20.5    20.5
1745-TA    1979  TDFL       Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.              11.0                  11.0
1750-TA 4/ 1979  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank         25.0-/ _               25.0
Total                                                    276.7  41.5   428.8  371.8
of which has been repaid                                7.7      -     7.6
Total now outstanding                                 269.0  41.5   421.2
Amount sold                          0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                        269.0  41.5   421.2
Total undisbursed                                        128.2  18.5   225.1  371.8
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/   Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/   Not yet effective.
5/   Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMDN SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.5
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.4
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                 1.8
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                 5.9
Total                                           244.8               9.5
of which has been repaid                     52.9
Total now outstanding                           191.9
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       191.9
Total undisbursed                                 9.5               9.5
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1979)
There are currently 36 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop-yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
will be postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. The most serious issue is the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
lack of adequate financial support from the Treasury; this issue was taken up
during the last review and the Tanzania Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
is organizing a meeting between NARCO, the Commissioner for Public Investment
(CPI) and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB) to address the issue
of equity contribution. In summary, although progress has been made, major
problems remain and will require continued attention. The closing date of
the Credit has been postponed by 12 months to December 31, 1980 in order to
complete the ranch development program.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. The project faces problems with regard to expected
marketed production reaching potential processing capacity. This continued
decline in the marketed production is, however, puzzling in view of the price
increase and the attractive returns per labor day. An intensive analysis of
the cashewnut production issue is to be carried out by the Government agencies
responsible for review of agricultural production in Tanzania. The take over
of the industry by the Cashewnut Authority (CATA) and the consolidation of its
activities are proceeding; its management has improved since the appointment
of a new General Manager last year.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Progress has been made in improving control of materials flow for
civil works, promotion of a coffee production program, labor-intensive road
works, project accounting and disbursement performance, and increasing farmer
demand for inputs. However, project implementation continues to be slow.
Little construction work has taken place over the last five months of wet
season agricultural activities. Trials were planted late in two of the
three districts due to misallocation of project finance vehicles. Little
action has been taken on procurement. As recommended in the mid-term review
of this project, agreement has been reached on a number of proposed amend-
ments to the legal documents in order to make the project design more flexible.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In view
of this, the closing date may have to be extended by nine months. Kilombero
Sugar Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC's
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project is progressing at a slower pace than anticipated and
fishing operations are now expected to begin by early 1980. Eight vessels for
the coastal commercial centers are already under construction, and procurement
of engines and fishing gear is in progress. Tender documents for the procure-
ment of steel boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center are being finalized.
The recent outbreaks of cholera at Lake Tanganyika have caused a setback in
Project activities on the Lake, particularly the Ujamaa Village Program, and
steps have been taken to speed up the identification of suitable villages and
the preparation of investment plans.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending the project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The project status deteriorated during 1978. The large scale para-
statal farms have been poorly managed, production is below expectation and
financial prospects are dismal. The ujamaa component proceeds slowly and
the Tanzania Rural Development Bank is actively investigating alternative
means of assisting village milk production and consumption. The foot and
mouth disease control investigation has commenced. The project will continue
to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Although the project got off to a slow start, physical progress has
now been satisfactory for the past two years. The nurseries are well stocked
and maintained, and the current planting program on schedule. Progress on
fire protection, road construction and building is satisfactory. Procurement
of equipment needed for the next season is, however, delayed and project
accounts need updating. These are partly due to staffing problems; the
position of financial controller and workshop foreman became vacant as well
as the position of assistant project manager and silviculturist/economist.
Government is approaching bilateral agencies for recruitment assistance.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February. 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily.  TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The level of regional commitment to the project has been good and
overall project performance is satisfactory; disbursements are on schedule.
However, some delays have been experienced in the delivery of equipment and
vehicles procured under the project, and shortage of trained extension agents
in the Region continues to hamper the crop development component. These
delays should not be over-emphasized since project management has been
effective in getting the project initiated.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This credit became effective on October 2, 1978. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging.  However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Physical implementation, particularly the execution of civil works,
has improved considerably and overall completion of the project has reached
95%. However, to allow sufficient time for completion, the Closing Date has
been postponed by 18 months to December 31, 1979, but would still require an
additional 6 months. Total project cost is now estimated at about TSh. 109
million, an increase of approximately 5% over the appraisal estimate of
TSh. 104 million. The Government does not foresee any financial problem in
providing the required additional funds. Three Community Education Centers
out of eight have started operating programs for village development, educa-
tion and training for youth and adults. The two Vocational Training Centers
are in operation at almost full capacity. The technical assistance and
fellowship programs are approaching completion and matching funds disbursed.
Savings under the technical assistance and fellowship component of the project
are estimated at approximately US$1.3 million.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. Construction
of extensions to fifteen secondary schools is progressing well and construc-
tion of 1,500 houses for Village Management Technicians, although delayed,
shows some improvement. In fact, housing construction is in line with VMT
training which will be extended until mid-1980 as a result of the reassignment
of over 500 VMTs as Village Managers in January 1978. There are delays in
recruitment of experts by UNESCO to assist a secondary school facilities
survey and in recruitment of accountancy experts for the National Board of
Accountants and Auditors. Implementation of a separate review of accountancy
training and a survey of primary schools are progressing slowly. Despite
these delays, project completion can be expected by the initial Closing Date
of June 30, 1982 and no financial problems are envisaged at present.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979. The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. However, it is necessary to recast the project by amending its
scope to address the problems which have been encountered in implementing the
project; these changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway
Project. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement. The technical assistance
contract with the consulting firm "ORT" will expire in November 1979, and the
Government is now recruiting individual experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. It is a continuation of the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA) aimed at maintaining the
national trunk road system and will draw upon experience gained during the
previous project.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. An extension of the closing date
by six months will be required to allow for completion of remaining construc-
tion activities.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project: US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates. These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts
have been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO
has obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost
is US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost
overrun of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. Plans to
make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap is being
reviewed. It is expected that US$7.0 million from the EEC Special Action
Fund will be allocated to this project.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to December 31, 1979 but may require a further post-
ponement of 6 months.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1981
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1980
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed by one year to July 1, 1980.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of this
project is being administered by IDA.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of September 30, 1979 were US$4.8 million of
which US$4.1 million, US$0.4 million and US$0.3 million were for consultancy
services, training and project unit services, respectively.  The procedures
for processing proposals have been streamlined and it is expected that the
pace of commitments and disbursements will be increased.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit are not yet effective.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa, tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
both countries is competent. Some US$34.4 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                      (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose
are expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
At September 30, 1979, about US$28.4 million of the loan had been disbursed.
The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the
countries concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1979
Fiscal Year            Obligor            Type of Business       Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing         3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap and          Soap Manufacture    1.37    0.40    1.77
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                      6.66    1.28    7.94
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC            2.70    0.58    3.28
Total Undisbursed                            2.70    0.58    3.28



- 45 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project                   18 months
(b)  Preparation by                                  TRDB with Bank Group
assistance
(c)  Initial Discussion with IDA                    August 1975
(d)  First IDA mission                              May 1978
(e)  Date of departure of appraisal mission         September 27, 1978
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations              January 9, 1980 1/
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness                  May 30, 1980
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
NONE
III. Special Conditions
1.   Appointment of TRDB's Regional Directorate Head (condition
of effectiveness, para. 50);
2.   TRDB would charge an annual interest rate of 7.5% on all
medium-term loans and 8.5% on all short-term loans to
Villages and Cooperatives, 9% on all loans to Parastatals
and District Development Corporations, and 10% on all loans
to individuals, partnerships, companies and associations
engaged in rural development (para 56);
3. Causing the crop marketing authorities to collect TRDB's
loans from its borrowers by deducting the amounts due to
TRDB for seasonal loans, from the proceeds of the borrowing
villages sales (para. 58);
4.   Completion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and TRDB (condition of effectiveness, para. 59).
1/   First round of negotiations took place in Washington in April, 1979.
However, an outstanding issue related to interest rate to be charged
by TRDB delayed completion of negotiations.






IBRD 2802R3
UGANDA                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUEPTMDER 187
U G A N D ^ar : -i A K E-                                                             ENYA TAN ZA NI A
REGIONS AND DISTRICTS
5  R rW A N I> A    t/ jsuzg 3   .  7        ,       X XA  Ai "Ways
.LAKEO                             TANZAM ra
t, t o N E1  NATR                   Rionst boundaries
B ,_g  t; h ir L  u    g    u r u ~           / qxOldUWiio7    (      ' *,       --W eOrnotn  boundri
I2M      ArAWt                                                                             4
( <    Lk,., N ald-                              AN                      I
R c PU B X [         CW                                                                                        2  0B  R 
-'--'w'?E,)g<-Kllww^~~~~~ j. 
X         3          C               A . ? N A  )                          \           -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZtA
j-  ZAMBiA   \    N       d O  M<<                   /Nt-H  t16W'016A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DA ES SALA
WMsH22an4ag1rr4g#Wes ~ ~      ungw OQ>g ?        \              <Ncpe                             v\
ettOLtETERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~E SAL2AAM)fbn
REPUBLICAltE                                                                      mi \           p                9    unuu<  .<  
OF~~~~~~~~~~~ aNtALAr                             t t f3                 NDU)4OZAM8     ' 4 



