Document of
The World Bank  F I LE C OPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2362-TA
TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 1, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =      Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.0                =      US$0.120
US$1.0                 =      TSh 8.3
ABBREVIATIONS
BOT   -   Bank of Tanzania
DDD   -   District Development Director
IFM   -   Institute of Finance and Management
MLC   -   Management Loans Committee
MOA   -   Ministry of Agriculture
NBC   -   National Bank of Commerce
NDCA  -   National Development Credit Agency
NMC   -   National Milling Corporation
PMO   -   Prime Minister's Office
RDD   -   Regional Development Director
RLC   -   Regional Loans Committee
TFA   -   Tanganyika Farmers Association
TFC   -   Tanzania Fertilizer Company
THB   -   Tanzania Housing Bank
TIB   -   Tanzania Investment Bank
TRDB  -   Tanzania Rural Development Bank
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE ENVIRONMENT .......          ..................................     1
A.   Agricultural and Rural Sector ......................    I
B.   Financial Institutions .............................    6
C.   Interest Rate Structure ............................    8
II.   THE TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK .....................   10
A.   Background ....       ..............   .......................   10
B.   Management and Organization .....           ...................   11
C.   Staffing and Training ......          ........................   14
D.   The Accounting System ......          ........................   16
E.   Operating Policies and Procedures ...............         ...   17
F.   Performance ........          ................................   26
III.   THE PROJECT.3
II. TH   ROET........................................    30
A.   General Description ................................   30
B.   Project Costs ..................................   30
C.   Financing ................. .................   31
D.   Detailed Features .................................   32
E.   Procurement ..................................    36
F.   Disbursement ..................................   37
G.   Accounts, Audit and Reports .........          ...............   38
IV.  PROSPECTS AND JUSTIFICATION                .39
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .41
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission
to Tanzania in October 1978, composed of Messrs. T. N. Baddar, P. Santos
(IDA) and A. Rath and Ms. S. D. Mueller (Consultants) and a follow up
visit by Mr. Baddar in October 1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1:   TRDB Involvement in IDA Projects
2:   Tables
1   -  Income Statements
2   -  Balance Sheets
3   -  Sectoral Distribution of Loans
4   -  Cash Flow Projections
5   -  Project Costs
3:   Training Program
4:   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHART:    TRDB Organization Chart (No. 19712)



I. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Agricultural and Rural Sector
Background
1.01      Tanzania's population (about 17.0 million in 1979) is increasing at
about 3.0% per annum. Per capita GNP for 1978 is estimated at US$230 overall.
Real growth of GDP averaged about 4.8% per annum over 1968-78. Roughly 50%
of GDP is derived from agriculture and related activities, about half of this
contribution coming from subsistence production. About 90% of the population
lives in the rural areas, and 90% of the economically active population is
engaged in agriculture. About 70% of Tanzania's foreign exchange earnings
from merchandise exports are accounted for by unprocessed agricultural commo-
dities, and a further 7% by processed farm products. The major agricultural
export commodities are cashewnuts, coffee, cotton, sisal, tea and tobacco.
1.02      Large-scale agriculture is confined to a small number of private
estates and state farms producing sisal, coffee, tea, sugar, wheat, rice and
livestock. The largely traditionally managed national livestock herd, esti-
mated at 10 million head, is grazed extensively over the 40% of the country
free from tsetse fly.
1.03      The current performance of the agricultural sector has been slug-
gish. Over the period 1967-77, the average annual rate of growth of agri-
cultural production was 2.7%, almost equal to the rate of population growth.
Food crop production failed to keep pace with population growth and, as a
result, Tanzania became increasingly dependent on imports of maize, rice and
wheat. A severe drought in 1973 and 1974 resulted in poor harvests and large
imports of foodgrains. Agricultural production recovered thereafter increasing
in real terms at an average annual rate of 7% because of good weather and
increases in producer prices but with a noted shift in production pattern away
from cash crops towards food crops.
Agricultural and Rural Development Strategy
1.04      The Government has undertaken a comprehensive program to support
the development of the agricultural sector, in conjunction with efforts to
achieve balanced regional growth and more equitable income distribution.
Within these objectives, Government is paying particular attention to achieving
self-sufficiency in food production and to supporting export crops. Greater
emphasis is now being placed on the production rather than the social aspects
of rural development projects. In addition, Government has made substantial
headway during the past decade in laying the foundations for a long-term
program of rural development. Beginning in 1970, the Government launched a
wide-ranging program to resettle the country's rural population into villages
(paras 1.09-1.12). In 1972, it decentralized government administration to
the regional and district levels in order to tailor development programs
more closely to the needs of the new villages (paras. 1.06-1.08). With the



- 2 -
establishment of new villages, the Government set ambitious targets to
provide essential social services. Under a Universal Primary Education
Program launched in 1974, close to 100% of all children of primary school entry
age were enrolled by the end of 1977. A program of village water supply was
initiated in the same year with the objective of providing the entire rural
population with an accessible supply of potable water by 1990; so far, 36% of
villages have water supply systems. A program has recently been launched to
provide the full rural population with access to rudimentary health care.
1.05      However, the rural populace has yet to experience income benefits
of the Government's overall strategy. Real rural per capita incomes actually
declined by 4% between 1969-75, and represented only 43% of average urban
incomes. Although major institutional reforms have been made, the institu-
tional structure in the rural sector is still in flux, and may require yet
further change. In some respects (for example, changes in the input delivery
system, paras 1.19 and 1.20), excessive institutional change may have been
partly responsible for the relatively poor performance of the agricultural
sector.
Rural Organization
1.06      In order to improve the quality of its program and projects, to
speed their execution and to encourage the mobilization of local resources,
the Government, in 1972, adopted a decentralized administrative structure.
Regional and District authorities were granted primary responsibility for
the planning and implementation of development activities; but they have no
taxing powers and are totally dependent on the central government for their
capital and recurrent budgets. Tanzania is now divided into 25 (20 mainland
and 5 Zanzibar) Regions and 96 Districts. The political head of each Region is
the Regional Commissioner, with the rank of Cabinet Minister, who is Chairman
of the Regional Development Committee, and a member of the National Assembly
and the National Executive Committee of Tanzania's only political party, Chama
Cha Mapinduzi 1/ (CCM). The political head at the District level is the Area
Commissioner, who is the CCM District Secretary and Chairman of the District
Development Committee. Regional and Area Commissioners are directly appointed
by the President.
1.07      The civil service in each Region is headed by a Regional Development
Director (RDD), assisted by a Regional Planning Officer. The heads of the
twelve Regional functional departments 2/ report directly to the RDD, who, in
turn, is responsible to the Central Government through the Prime Minister's
Office (PMO).  At the District level, the administration is headed by the
District Development Director (DDD), assisted by a District Planning Officer
and the District heads of the functional departments. The field-level staff
of the central ministries are answerable to the DDD through the heads of their
functional departments, but receive technical guidance from the functional
1/   Roughly translatable from the Swahili as "the Party of the Revolution".
2/   Education, Health, Lands, Industry, Commerce, Natural Resources, Live-
stock Development, Crop Development, Water, Public Works, Ujamaa and
Cooperatives, and Culture.



staff at the Regional level and, through them, from the central ministries.
All civil servants within a Region are ultimately responsible to the RDD and,
once appointed to a Region, can only be transferred with the consent of the
RDD. However, all staff have a parent central Ministry.
1.08      This decentralization of government authority is designed to
improve communications between the Government and the village and between
the Party cadre and the civil service. Villages have more opportunity to
participate in the planning and implementation of the development programs
which affect their future. The civil service operating at the district and
regional levels has a more integrated approach to rural development than was
possible when staff reported both administratively and functionally to their
parent central technical ministries. However, qualified manpower is insuffi-
cient to fill the many positions demanded by a decentralized government
structure. Decentralization has not led to the anticipated levels of local
participation in the planning process; the division of responsibility between
the central ministries, regional and district authorities and parastatals
remains poorly defined, and bureaucratic tensions persist.
1.09      Villagization.  Since independence, but particularly from 1970, the
grouping of dispersed farm families into villages has been a key element of
Government strategy for the rural areas in order to facilitate the provision
of infrastructure and services to the rural population, and to encourage self-
reliance and a community approach to rural development. During 1974, the
emphasis shifted from creating additional ujamaa I/ villages (the ultimate goal
of which was fully collectivized agricultural production) to forming "planned"
or "development" villages, which place less stress on communal production, and
more on "block farming" (in which each farmer cultivates his own plot within
an overall block of land allocated to the village) and on individual holdings
within the village framework. At the same time, the pace of villagization was
considerably accelerated, not without some degree of coercion and disruption
of production in some areas. There are now almost 8,000 registered villages,
containing over three-quarters of Tanzania's rural population.
1.10      The village is intended to act as the country's primary social, eco-
nomic and political unit. Basic social services, including health facilities,
classrooms and water supply systems, are to be located in each village. Eco-
nomic services, including provision of credit, supply of inputs, organization
of extension services and marketing of produce, are to be coordinated at the
village level. Economic infrastructure, such as storage godowns, processing
equipment and small-scale industries, are to be village owned investments.
The villages' legal status is spelled out in the Villages and Ujamaa Villages
(Registration, Designation and Administration) Act of 1975. Each village of
250 families or more is registered and elects, through a Village Assembly,
1/   "Ujamaa" is a Swahili word meaning "familyhood".



- 4 -
a Village Council. The Village Council has the power to allocate land and
control its use, to own agricultural machinery and other capital goods (except
for livestock and small farm tools which remain individual property), and to
borrow. Each village is required to establish a capital fund, a reserve fund
and a disposable fund.
1.11       A study carried out for the Bank of Tanzania (BOT) recommended
that the capital base of the village should be strengthened through the Rural
Finance Fund established by BOT (para. 1.22). Since the village is a corporate
entity empowered to borrow, it is suggested that the borrowing power be fixed
at a maximum of ten times its capital fund. It is proposed that 50% of the
capital fund be contributed by the individual farmers (who would be required
to contribute 5% of total loans advanced to them by the village); 25% from the
village levy income which it already receives from the crop authorities in
respect of produce delivered for sale through them and the remaining 25% from
BOT. It is further proposed that if experience should show that the village
is unable to cover its expenses from its own resources, the village should be
allowed an interest spread of 1% in its onlending activity to the individual
farmer. These proposals are still under consideration.
1.12       Early performance has been mixed, with villages in some regions
demonstrating an impressive ability to mobilize local support for the construc-
tion of social or productive infrastructure. In some areas of high population
density, villagization has led to overgrazing and depletion of soil fertility.
In other areas, there are substantial diseconomies in that villagers must now
travel further to cultivate fields, collect fuelwood and draw potable water.
The Government has already acted (through "Operation Correction" in 1976) to
rectify the most serious cases of misallocation, but more attention to village
siting and size is needed to overcome many of the existing problems of village
settlements.
1.13       Cooperatives.  The cooperative system in Tanzania, as it existed
prior to 1966, was a three-tiered organization. The local primary marketing
societies which marketed all major agricultural commodities, were affiliated
with regional cooperative unions which provided the link between the societies
and the marketing parastatals. The regional unions were themselves members
of the Cooperative Union of Tanzania. In 1966, the Government decided that
cooperatives should play a central role in agricultural development, and that
cooperatives should be established by the Government in those areas where they
had not previously existed to eliminate exploitation of the peasants by middle-
men. Thus, to strengthen the movement, the Government banned private trading
in those crops handled by cooperatives. These decisions forced cooperatives
into areas where there was no cooperative tradition and experience, as well as
limited commercial farming, and to perform marketing services for crops not
previously handled by cooperatives. Extreme shortages of trained and expe-
rienced manpower and the inherent weakness of the expanded system led to
severe financial difficulties for many societies. Moreover, in the post-
Arusha Declaration period and with the growth of the Ujamaa village movement,
tensions arose between the Ujamaa and cooperative movements, exacerbated by
the mass villagization campaign of late 1974. In May 1976, the Government
abolished all primary cooperative societies, the villages taking over their



- 5 -
crop marketing functions. Cooperative unions were dissolved and their func-
tions were transferred to national, regional and district institutions such
as the District Development Corporations, Regional Trading Companies, and the
parastatal crop authorities, the latter now required to purchase crops directly
from villages. These moves also disrupted the traditional channels for credit
and input distribution. The Tanzania Rural Development Bank now has to deal
directly with over 8,000 villages, rather than a very much smaller number of
cooperative unions. A satisfactory input delivery system has not yet evolved
(paras. 1.19 and 1.20).
1.14      Parastatals.  There are separate parastatals for coffee, cotton,
sisal, tea, tobacco, cashewnuts, pyrethrum, sugar, livestock and dairy
products and foodgrains. Generally, ambitious expectations have placed
severe strains on their manpower resources. These parastatals provide
marketing and processing services and most have development responsibilities.
1.15      Parastatal marketing is usually characterized by lack of competi-
tion, high costs, poor service and slow payments to farmers. The Government
is aware of these problems; and its Standing Committee on Parastatal Organi-
zation is reviewing the structure and managerial performance of parastatals.
There have been transfers of staff from over-manned parastatals. The Bank
Group is assisting in this process through its analysis of parastatals
involved in recent and proposed lending operations, e.g., the Cashewnut
Authority, the Tobacco Authority, the Tea Authority, the Pyrethrum Authority
and the National Milling Corporation. The World Bank Group also intends to
start a broader review of Tanzania's agricultural parastatals as a principal
focus of its sector work in FY80 and FY81.
Agricultural Services
1.16      Extension.  The extension service is staffed by about 100 graduates,
3,000 field officers with some formal training, and 3,500 field assistants,
many without formal training. Of field level staff, about 54% are employed
by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) but under the day-to-day control of the
regions (para 1.07), with the remainder employed by crop parastatals.
1.17      Field staff are inadequately trained and supervised, and receive
limited logistical support. MOA and the PMO hold differing views on how ex-
tension should be reorganized to take account of the villagization program
which leads to lack of direction and low morale. The situation has become
further confused by the decision in early 1978, to appoint Government-salaried
Managers to each Village - 4,000 of these have already been selected, mainly
from the ranks of the extension service and education cadres. The relation-
ship between the functions of Village Managers, agricultural extension staff
and Village Management Technicians 1/ remains unclear. The Bank Group has
made some proposals to Government about the future of the extension service
1/   For a description of the Village Management Technician program, see the
appraisal report covering the Fifth Education Project Credit No. 607-TA,
Appraisal Report No. 954-TA).



on the lines of the Benor training and visit system, suitably adapted to
Tanzanian conditions. Discussions are continuing; in the meantime, Government
is attempting a reorganization along these lines in two regions, as part of
the Mwanza-Shinyanga Rural Development Project (Credit No. 803-TA).
1.18      Credit.  Two major institutions provide credit for rural development,
the National Bank of Commerce (NBC), and the Tanzania Rural Development Bank
(TRDB). In the five years ending June 30, 1978, approximately 93% of the
provided credits made were short-term, 6% medium-term and 1% long-term. By
far, the larger part of short-term credit requirements was provided by NBC as
it is the sole source of short-term credit for the financing of produce
marketing. Out of the production credit provided by banks, TRDB provided
37%, mostly in the form of seasonal inputs in kind; NBC provided the other
63%, generally for working capital on large estates. Short-term production
credit is also provided by the Tanzania Coffee Authority and the Tanzania
Cotton Authority. As the direct beneficiary under the proposed project,
TRDB's role, performance and future prospects are analyzed in Chapter II in
this report.
1.19      Input Supply.  The fertilizer distribution system has recently
experienced continuing modifications. Prior to 1975, the Tanzania Fertilizer
Company (TFC) sold its output to four principal distributing agencies: the
cooperatives, the Tanganyika Farmers Association (TFA), and the State Trading
Corporation and some crop parastatals. In 1975, "lead" parastatal crop
authorities were designated for each District and assigned responsibility for
distributing fertilizer for all crops and not only for crops for which they
were responsible. Subsequently, responsibility for input distribution has
been transferred-to TFC and to TRDB -- which had always procured inputs for
their own borrowers.
1.20      In May 1978, an FAO consultant recommended to MOA the creation of
zonal representatives for TFC which would in turn license private traders to
stock and sell agricultural inputs in all major population centers and in the
villages. While these recommendations remain under consideration by
Government, TFC is establishing depots at the main centers; three depots are
under construction at Tabora, Mwanza and Mkambako in addition to those already
in existence at Dar-es-Salaam, Iringa and Tanga (where the factory is located)
and TFC expects to hire stores in Arusha and Moshi belonging to TFA. Beginning
with 1979/80 season, TFC assumed the responsibility of moving fertilizer to
the depots leaving other agencies only with the responsibility of the physical
distribution from the depots to the villages.
B. Financial Institutions
1.21      The financial institutions involved in the rural sector in Tanzania
in addition to the Bank of Tanzania which is the central bank, are the Tanzania
Rural Development Bank, the National Bank of Commerce, the Tanzania Investment
Bank (TIB) and the Tanzania Housing Bank (THB). TRDB, which is the beneficiary



of the proposed subject credit, is described in Chapter II. A brief summary of
the activities of the other named institutions is given below. Other financial
institutions comprise the Post Office Savings Bank, the National Insurance
Corporation and the National Provident Fund, all of which are essentially
resource mobilizing institutions. In addition, two development banks dealing
with the modern sectors of manufacturing, agro-business, tourism, transport,
etc. are the East African Development Bank, whose shares are held by the
Governments of Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda and the Tanganyika Development
Finance Co. Ltd., which is jointly owned by TIB and the bilateral aid agencies
of the UK, West Germany and the Netherlands.
1.22      The Bank of Tanzania (BOT) was established as the central bank in
1966.   However, only since 1978 has it been empowered to grant loans and
extend rediscounting facilities to development banks and designated financial
institutions such as TRDB. BOT is also now required to establish and maintain
a Rural Finance Fund to be applied for:
(a) the grant of loans or advances to banks or designated financial
institutions for periods exceeding one year but not exceeding
20 years for the purpose of:
(i)  financing rural development; or
(ii)  enabling the extension of loans or advances made by
such banks or designated financial institutions for
financing of rural development where such institu-
tion certifies to the satisfaction of BOT that repay-
ment is in default due to the effects of natural
calamities or other exceptional circumstances pro-
vided that such extension does not exceed five years;
(b)  the purchase of bonds, debentures or other negotiable instruments
offered publicly, or the guarantee of loans and advances granted
by banks and designated financial institutions to finance rural
development;
(c)  the subscription to the share capital of a bank or designated
financial institutions;
(d)  the acquisition, through a designated financial institution of
an interest in a village registered under the Villages and
Ujamaa Villages Act.
An initial sum of TSh 35 million (US$4.2 million) was credited to the fund
which would be augmented by annual allocations out of BOT's income.  No use has
been made of this fund to date.
1.23      The National Bank of Commerce (NBC) was established in 1967 by merger
of the eight commercial banks then operating in Tanzania. NBC has expanded its
branch agency network; as of June 30, 1978, it had established 99 branches and
maintained 204 agencies serving 71 administrative districts. Total deposits



amounted to TSh 6,390 million (US$770 million) of which TSh 4,177 million
(US$503 million) were in current accounts, TSh 759 million (US$91 million) in
savings accounts and TSh 1,455 million (US$175 million) in time deposits.
Credits extended by NBC stood at TSh 4,155 million (US$500 million), of which
TSh 1,496 million (US$180 million) were extended to the agricultural sector and
were concentrated mainly on produce marketing. NBC's net operating surplus for
the year 1977/78 amounted to TSh 261 million (US$31 million); its paid up
capital stood at TSh 50 million (US$6 million) and general reserve at TSh 422
million (US$51 million).
1.24      A task force appointed by Government to examine the activities of
the financial sector and the role of each institution recommended that NBC
should continue to assume the major responsibility of mobilizing rural
savings. It also recommended that in order to assist TRDB in building up
a country wide structure of branches to reach the villages, TRDB should
make use of the facilities at NBC branches. The details of this arrangement
between the two institutions are being worked out at selected branches of NBC
in accordance with a phased program.
1.25      The Tanzania Investment Bank (TIE) was established in 1970 to
promote economic development in Tanzania by providing medium- and long-term
finance and technical assistance to projects mainly in the industrial sector
and also for the development of large-scale corporate agriculture, ranching,
forestry and fisheries. TIB has so far received from the Bank Group an IDA
credit of US$6 million, and two Bank loans of US$30 million. A fourth line
of credit of US$25 million was approved in July 1979. TIB also administers an
IDA Technical Assistance Credit of US$6 million to Tanzania for financing
feasibility and pre-investment studies in the industrial and corporate agricul-
tural sector and the training of Tanzanian staff in key areas.
1.26      The Tanzania Housing Bank (THB) was established in 1972, to mobilize
local savings and external resources for the development of commercial and
residential buildings including rural and low-cost housing. THB has been a
beneficiary under two Sites and Services Projects assisted by the Bank Group
to provide housing loans.
C. Interest Rate Structure
1.27      BOT issued a directive giving the interest rates to be paid or
charged by the various financial institutions effective July 1, 1978. The
following table summarizes the changes in interest rates.



- 9 -
Prior to July 1, 1978       BOT Directive
% p.a.                  % p.a.
BOT:     Rediscounts and advances
Commercial bills
Crop:  90 days                  5.00                    5.00
91-180 days              5.50                    5.50
Other:  90 days               5.25-6.00               5.25-6.00
91-180 days          5.75-6.50                5.75-6.50
Treasury bills (35 days)
Rediscounts                       4.27                   4.27
Advances                         4.77                    4.77
TRDB:     Seasonal Loans                          8.5                     7.5
Term Loans                             7.5                     7.5
NBC:       Savings                                4.0                     5.0
Deposits - up to 91 days               3.5                     3.5
3 - 6 months               4.0                     4.0
6 - 9 months               4.25                    4.25
9 -12 months               4.5                     4.5
1 - 2 years                5.0                     6.0
Lending                             6.5-10.5                7.5-11.5
Normal Rate                            8.0                     9.0
TIB:       Small-scale Industry
- Rural                         11.0                      7.5
- Urban                          11.0                     8.0
Commercial                            11.0                     9.0
Plantations                           11.0                    10.0
Medium and Large-scale
Industry                             11.0                    10.0
Others:   Post Office Savings Bank                4.0                     5.0
THB - Savings                          4.5                     5.0
- Deposits                         5.5                     5.5
Fixed Deposits:  1 year           6.0                    6.0
2 years        6.5                     6.5
Lending                       5.0-10.0                5.0-11.0
These new rates do not apply to loans financed out of foreign credits which
are subject to legal agreements governing the use of these funds; loans made
out of repayments of the principal of existing loans would be regarded as
loans made out of local resources irrespective of the original source of
funds and would, therefore, be subject to the new rates. TRDB's interest rate
structure is discussed in detail in the following chapter (para 2.30).



- 10 -
II. THE TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (TRDB)
A. Background
2.01      The history of agricultural credit in Tanzania dates back to 1947,
when the first agricultural credit agency, the Land Bank of Tanganyika was
established which provided credit almost exclusively to large-scale expatriate
farmers, using land as a security. Credit to African farmers was minimal and
was available only through a series of small funds which were badly organized,
inadequately financed and poorly staffed. The Land Bank was replaced in 1961,
by the Agricultural Credit Agency which made special provisions for the small-
scale peasant farmers. This new agency quickly ran into problems due to the
absence of adequate credit administration and supervision combined with the
belief among many farmers that loans were granted by the Government as a
post-independence gift which made recovery virtually impossible. It was
succeeded in 1964 by the National Development Credit Agency (NDCA) which
provided credit to the individual peasant farmer through the cooperative
movement. This latter institution had inherited large amounts of bad debts
from its predecessors largely resulting from marginal investments due to
inadequate staffing and unsound capital structure. Credit administration
remained weak and major problems arose from the rapid expansion of the cooper-
ative movement and the volume of credit which the cooperatives were handling
with very limited manpower resources. Collections from the cooperative socie-
ties proved more difficult than had been anticipated; by the time NDCA was
disbanded in 1971, its arrears amounted to 40% of its loan portfolio. It has
been the beneficiary of an IDA credit in 1969 (Credit No. 80-TA) and was the
credit intermediary in another in 1970 (Tobacco Project Credit No. 217-TA).
2.02      It was against this background that the Government of Tanzania sought
to establish a new institution, TRDB to mobilize domestic and foreign resources
to finance the expanding rural development activities. IDA played a large
role in the creation of TRDB; both the draft legislation and its investment
policy were sent to IDA for comment. TRDB came into operation on May 1, 1971,
by taking over the assets and liabilities of NDCA. The total portfolio trans-
ferred to TRDB was TSh 73.4 million (US$8.8 million) including TSh 2.4 million
(US$0.3 million) in authorized but undisbursed loans, less a provision for bad
and doubtful debts of TSh 11.4 million (US$1.4 million).
2.03      The initial share capital of TRDB amounted to TSh 25 million (US$3.0
million) representing the net tangible assets transferred from NDCA in April
1971. This was increased through successive Government contributions partly
financed by foreign grants to Government for this specific purpose. As of
June 30, 1978, the authorized share capital of TRDB stood at 300 shares of
TSh 1.0 million (US$120,000) each of which 172 shares have been subscribed
and fully paid for a total of TSh 172 million (US$20.7 million). Other re-
sources comprise loans and credits tied to certain crop programs and rural
development projects from IDA (TSh 184 million or US$22.2 million), the Inter-
national Coffee Organization (ICO) and foreign aid allocated for administration
by TRDB (TSh 39 million or US$4.7 million), loans and grants from Government



- 11 -
for general and specific purposes (TSh 170 million or US$20.5 million),
special Ujamaa Village bonds (TSh 10 million or US$1.2 million) and surplus
generated by TRDB (TSh 13.0 million or US$1.6 million). As of June 30, 1978,
TRDB's total loan portfolio amounted to TSh 436 million (US$52.5 million) with
a provision for bad and doubtful debts of TSh 74 million (US$8.9 million).
2.04      Under the 1971 Act, TRDB was established to:
(i) provide long and medium-term finance for rural development;
(ii)  provide technical assistance and advice to promote rural
development;
(iii) administer special funds that may be placed with TRDB; and
(iv)  finance the purchase of agricultural inputs by either making
or guaranteeing loans, or through the purchase and resale
of agricultural inputs on credit terms.
In 1975, the Act was amended to permit TRDB to mobilize domestic resources
for rural development by soliciting deposits. However, shortage of trained
manpower and lack of adequate facilities prevented TRDB from actively engaging
in this field. Other arrangements have now been made to provide TRDB with
access to domestic resources through the central bank-BOT (para 1.22).
2.05      TRDB inherited from NDCA responsibility for the credit aspects
of the IDA credits referred to in para 2.01. Since then TRDB has acted
as a credit channel in several other agricultural credits, namely: Tea
Development Project (Credit No. 287-TA), Second Livestock Project (Credit
No. 382-TA), Geita Cotton Project (Credit No. 454-TA), Kigoma Rural Devel-
opment Project (Credit No. 508-TA), Dairy Development Project (Credit No.
580-TA), Fisheries Development Project (Credit No. 652-TA), National Maize
Project (Credit No. 660-TA), and Tobacco Handling Project (Credit No. 802-TA).
Details are given in Annex 1.
B. Management and Organization
2.06      TRDB is guided by the TRDB Act of 1971.  All powers are vested in
a Board of Directors consisting of nine members. The Chairman who is also
Managing Director is appointed by the President of the Republic. The Minister
of Finance appoints the other members who are chosen from among persons with
knowledge and experience in economic and financial matters, agriculture,
rural development and cooperative institutions. The responsibilities of the
Chairman include the development of appropriate policies for TRDB in coordina-
tion with the Government, the Bank of Tanzania, other financial institutions,
the political party and other institutions and organizations involved in rural
development.
2.07      According to TRDB's organizational chart, the Chairman is assisted
directly in his duties by the General Manager, the Corporation Secretary and
the Internal Auditor. The General Manager is normally in charge of the



- 12 -
day-to-day operations of TRDB, with all department heads reporting to him, and
he is responsible for translating the policies of the Board into operational
guidelines for the staff, for meeting the goals and objectives of TRDB and
for the organization, control and supervision of the staff. The Corporation
Secretary convenes regular board meetings, maintains board memoranda and
ensures that legal requirements are met in all TRDB transactions. The Internal
Auditor is responsible for the internal audit of TRDB, and oversees that its
procedures are implemented in a manner aimed at preventing misuse of funds.
2.08      In June 1978, the General Manager was reassigned and the post remains
vacant, with the Chairman and Managing Director assuming his role. The func-
tions of the General Manager are important in ensuring an adequate performance
by TRDB in all its operational activities and his duties and tasks are quite
distinct from those of the Managing Director. However, Government is consider-
ing the abolishing of the post of General Manager in all parastatals and
generally combining this post with that of the Managing Director. While this
plan may be sound in many cases, given the overall shortage of managerial
experience in Tanzania, it is recognized that this action might weaken the
effectiveness of TRDB as an institution. To overcome this problem it was
agreed at negotiations that a new department to be known as the "Regional
Directorate" would be established at head office whose head would report
directly to the Managing Director and would be responsible for the day to day
operations in all regions assisted by four zonal managers each supervising
the activities of about five regional offices. The appointment of the head of
the Regional Directorate with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association would be a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Project.
2.09      TRDB is organized along functional lines (see Chart No. 19712)
into four major departments: Operations, Development, Finance and Adminis-
tration, and nineteen regional offices. Each department and regional office
is headed by a manager, all of whom now report to the Managing Director. In
order to alleviate the burden carried by the Managing Director/General Manager,
and in view of the increasing responsibility assumed by the regional staff in
the recovery of loans following the dissolution of cooperatives (para 1.13),
the proposed Regional Directorate would be established at the departmental
level to coordinate the activities of all the regional offices. A Loan
Collection Division would also be attached to the Regional Directorate to
be responsible for supervising loan collection activities in all regions.
2.10      The Operations Department implements the lending program including
the appraisal of loan applications from the regions before submitting them
to management for decision. The department is organized into six divisions,
namely: (i) the Procurement Division is responsible for the procurement and
delivery of all seasonal agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, seeds,
insecticides, etc., which are required by the clients; and (ii) five Sector
Divisions which are Crops and Area Programs, Livestock, Fisheries, Transport
and Storage and Small-scale Industries. Each division is responsible for the
appraisal, disbursement and supervision of projects within the specific sector.



- 13 -
2.11      The Development Department, as yet not fully operational, provides
training, monitoring and evaluation, research, and statistics. It has three
divisions: (i) the Training and Manpower Development Division responsible for
determining the training needs of TRDB staff, designing and conducting appro-
priate training programs within TRDB, as well as scheduling the training of
staff through programs of other educational institutions both in Tanzania and
other countries; (ii) the Research and Statistics Division is expected to carry
out research into problems of rural development and credit, paying particular
attention to the effectiveness of the credit programs and collecting relevant
statistics for use by the project officers and other staff; and (iii) the
Planning Division responsible for identifying new investment opportunities for
TRDB and for preparing integrated sectoral and regional plans for investments.
The Development Department is being strengthened under the proposed project to
accommodate a larger and more active Training and Manpower Development Division
(para 3.06), while the Research Division would be also strengthened to look
after the monitoring and evaluation of all TRDB 's ongoing projects (para
3.17). Two new divisions would be established within the Develoment Depart-
ment: (i) Organization and Methods Division (para 3.15); and (ii) Management
Information Center (para 3.13).
2.12      The Finance Department is responsible for maintaining all accounts,
providing information on TRDB's overall financial position and implementing
appropriate control measures. It is organized into four divisions, namely:
(i) the Administrative Division which prepares and maintains salary records
of staff; (ii) the Financial Analysis Division which prepares periodic
statements showing TRDB's financial resources, loan disbursements, recoveries,
arrears, incomes and expenditure; (iii) the Data Processing Division; and
(iv) the Loans Division which is responsible for preparing payment vouchers
and monthly and quarterly statements of accounts.
2.13      The Administration Department is a service department in charge of
personnel policies, legal records and provision of general services to TRDB
staff.
2.14      Regional Offices are maintained by TRDB in all the mainland's 20
regions, except the Coast Region which is served by H.O. in Dar-es-Salaam.
Each of the 19 offices is headed by a Regional Manager, who may be assisted by
one or two project officers, and at least one or more credit supervisors,
depending on the volume of business transacted in the region. The Regional
Offices play an important role in coordinating TRDB's programs with regional
development plans, especially since the Government of Tanzania decentralized
the administrative structure of the country (para 1.06-1.08). The Regional
Offices prepare credit plans for their respective regions, help prospective
borrowers apply for loans, collect the necessary background information on
prospective clients, and carry out financial evaluation of the proposals.
Based on their appraisals, the regional Offices may approve loans through the
Regional Loan Committees (para 2.37). Regional Offices are also responsible
for follow-up and supervision of all projects in the region and for the
collection of loans. In view of the substantial increase in the number of
loans to be processed by the regions following the dissolution of the coopera-
tives (para 1.13), management is planning the decentralization of the loan
approval procedures (para 2.40), to go hand in hand with the strengthening of
the regional offices.



- 14 -
2.15       District Offices are organized under the Regional Office in districts
where the volume of credit is large, with up to two credit supervisors.   There
are only eight district offices at the moment, but significant expansion is ex-
pected to take place in keeping up with the expected increase in the number of
borrowers.
C. Staffing and Training
2.16       Staffing:  The main objective of TRDB staffing strategy has been
to obtain a team of people who are capable and dedicated to provide the
requisite services to the rural sector. Staffing efforts are concentrated
on three main categories: project officers, 1/ credit supervisors 2/ and
accounting staff. The cadre of project officers has been drawn from persons
with degrees or diplomas in commerce, economics, business administration or
agriculture. The number of project officers increased from less than 15 in
1971 to 73 by June 1979, of which 43 are posted in the regions. While TRDB's
management has repeatedly approached the Government to place a greater number
of university graduates with it, those efforts have not been particularly
successful due to the critical shortage of qualified personnel in Tanzania. A
number of parastatals, ministries, and the Prime Minister's Office all compete
for the insufficient number of qualified candidates graduating from the
universities. This situation incited TRDB to consider augmenting the number
of project officers through training and upgrading of credit supervisors.
Nevertheless, in view of the increase in the volume of lending and the much
larger increase of clients, TRDB's requirements for new recruits are expected
to increase considerably. Due to the wide gap between the demand for univer-
sity graduates by different organizations and the number available, Government
has established a High Level Manpower Committee which makes annual allocations
to all sectors. Hitherto, the annual allocation of university level graduates
to various parastatals has been below the number required. Therefore, assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that Government would undertake to
satisfy TRDB's requirements for university graduates provided for under the
project and estimated at 14 in FY81, six in FY82 and five in FY83.
2.17       Credit supervisors are drawn from persons with high school certi-
ficates, and in a few cases from persons with certificates in agriculture and
animal husbandry. The number of credit supervisors increased from 15 in
June 1971, to 84 by June 1979, of which 58 are posted in the regions. The
minimum educational qualifications of credit supervisors recruited by TRDB
is a Form IV level education. A number of them are also recruited after the
completion of Form VI. In the Tanzanian educational system, a Form VI grad-
uate is eligible for university education, but must first have work exper-
ience of two years in order to be admitted to the university. Thus, the
credit supervisors with Form VI education become eligible, after two years
1/    Responsible for appraisal and supervision of TRDB loans.
2/    Responsible for the monitoring of project implementation and ensuring
the maintenance of adequate records by TRDB's borrowers under the
supervision of the project officers.



- 15 -
at TRDB, to enter into a university degree program and are naturally eager
to do so. Once they complete their university education, they form a part
of the national pool which is allocated by the national committee. TRDB
has no preemptive rights over these individuals. Hence, to minimize such
disruption, TRDB is moving towards recruiting credit supervisors with
Form IV level education.
2.18      There is a general shortage of experienced accountants in Tanzania
and the high turnover in TRDB's accounting staff reflects the acute shortage
in this area and the pull of the relatively high salaries in the private
sector. It is expected, however, that the installation of a small computer
under this project (para 3.13) would relieve some of this pressure.
2.19      Training:  Management has vigorously pursued a policy of training
new recruits and existing staff through programs either funded by bilateral
agencies for training of personnel abroad, or from TRDB's own sources for
training in Tanzania. Until 1976, the Institute of Finance and Management
(IFM) in Dar-es-Salaam trained TRDB's project officers and credit supervisors
in sandwich courses that gave fresh recruits intensive orientation courses
followed by on-the-job experience in the field, and further courses at IFM.
Since this program was geared more towards commercial banking than rural
credit, TRDB discontinued its courses with IFM and started training its staff
under the tutelage of senior officers of TRDB, with the help of a technical
assistance program provided by the UNDP/FAO from 1975 until 1978.
2.20      Generally, credit supervisors' initial training is a full-time one
month orientation course on TRDB's operations, brief introduction to farm
level operations, and emphasis on bookkeeping and accounting. This is followed
by a six-month placement in the field. The credit supervisors, then return for
a second course of four weeks which consists of in-depth study of the subjects
previously covered and case studies. The trainees are sent back for a second
assignment in the field, usually seven to ten months in duration, followed by a
final course, five weeks long, covering project identification, preparation and
analysis. While the subject matter covered is adequate, the usefulness of
these courses to TRDB could be enhanced by (a) placing greater emphasis on
practical problems faced in the field; and (b) reducing their range to permit
greater emphasis on village level accounting and bookkeeping, since lending
to villages will be the main focus of TRDB's future increase in business.
2.21      The course for project officers is divided into two parts.  Part I
is of five weeks duration and covers project identification, preparation,
and appraisal. After nine months of placement in the field, the project
officers are brought back for a Part II course, also of five weeks, placing
greater emphasis on case studies generally prepared by senior officers
teaching the courses. The curriculum tends to place more emphasis on theory
than is necessary; the analytical techniques introduced are, for the most part,
far too sophisticated for the type of projects to be analyzed. Furthermore,
the courses are general in nature, making some aspects of the program redundant
for personnel qualified in specific areas. The modification of the curric-
ulum and the introduction of refresher courses designed to eliminate problems
that usually arise from different interpretations of existing policies and
loan appraisal procedures would produce better results.



- 16 -
2.22      TRDB management feels that additional resources are required to fur-
ther recruit and train additional staff, which is of vital importance to insti-
tution building. Training of existing and newly recruited manpower becomes all
the more essential in view of the fact that TRDB must now deal directly at the
village level on a massive scale (para 1.13). The problems of assessing the
credit worthiness of clients with little or no previous experience in book-
keeping, inadequate records and limited managerial skills can hardly be over-
emphasized. While the Prime Minister's Office is planning to mitigate these
problems by actively recruiting and training management personnel to be placed
at the village level under the Village Management Technicians program (para
1.17), nevertheless, the role of TRDB's staff is a challenging one and is
likely to be more demanding in the coming years.
2.23      It is recognized that further effort should be given to training
of staff for the development of administrative village staff. In order to
educate the villages in the concept of agricultural credit and to supplement
the village staff's education in the proper maintenance of books and records,
TRDB has started a series of seminars conducted by their regional managers.
Although these seminars were started on an ad hoc basis, TRDB's management
is formalizing this process, to make it part of a complete training program
for village staff. It is, therefore, proposed under the project (paras 3.11
and 3.12) to form six mobile field training units, each serving three to four
regions, manned by qualified instructors for the training of village staff.
2.24      A measure of the task ahead may be obtained by considering the
numbers of staff needed to provide elementary credit facilities to all vil-
lages. One credit supervisor for every twenty villages would require about
400 credit supervisors in the field compared to the current level of 51
(para 2.17); and one project officer supervising four credit supervisors
would require about 100 project officers in the field compared with the
current level of 41 (para 2.16). In summary, it is imperative that more
concentrated rural credit instruction be made available to TRDB project
officers and credit supervisors for the training of new recruits, rotational
up-training of operational staff, and training of personnel as instructors
for project and village staff. Training is thus a major element of the
proposed project.
D. The Accounting System
2.25      The loan accounting system in use in TRDB was until recently the
one inherited from NDCA, using a second-hand NCR 400 machine. This was
essentially a mortgage-type loan system designed to cater for the disburse-
ment of a pre-determined sum at a specific point in time which is repayable in
fixed equal installments over the term of the loan. Subsequent changes in the
disbursement data due to delays in or phasing of procurement resulted in
repayment schedules being unrelated either to the actual amount disbursed or
to the actual dates the borrower has received the inputs or equipment. In
addition, the calculation of interest was linked to the automatic entry of
installments on the loan cards, resulting in a considerable amount of time
being spent in calculating manually journal adjustment entries and in pro-
cessing them on the ledger cards. Miscalculation of the journal entries has



- 17 -
resulted in errors being compounded with journal adjustment entries outnumber-
ing normal transactions. With the dissolution of the cooperatives and the
resulting increase in the number of loans processed by TRDB in its direct
lending to a large number of villages, some delay is experienced at present
in the production of timely accounts. This is also reflected in the rather
limited financial analysis of the accounting data available. Very little use
is at present made of this information and little, if any, work is done on
current estimates of financial position and a comparison of resource avail-
ability with expected demand for credit. The shortcomings of the accounting
procedures are a contributory factor to the present poor arrears position as
disputes over loan balances provide an excellent excuse for borrowers to delay
or avoid loan repayment.
2.26      In June 1977, TRDB's management commissioned a firm of consultants
to improve the accounting system while retaining the old NCR 400 machine.
The new system was fully operational by mid 1979. While it is premature to
pass a judgment on the effectiveness of the new system, the frequent breakdowns
of the old NCR 400 machine and its limited capacity to cope with the expected
significant increase in the number of loans following the dissolution of
cooperatives are already causing serious concern to the senior management of
TRDB. The proposed project, therefore, provides for consultants to be employed
to design and install a computer capable of handling the increased load,
producing timely loan accounts, improving the billing procedures and producing
a wide range of information necessary for effective management (para 3.13).
E. Operating Policies and Procedures
2.27      Under the 1971 Act, TRDB was established to provide short, medium
and long-term financing for rural development. Eligible borrowers included:
District Development Corporations (DDC); the now dissolved cooperatives, Ujamaa
and Registered Villages, and Individuals or Corporations engaged in rural
development. However, with the dissolution of cooperatives, the basic thrust
of TRDB's lending in the future is expected to be the villages.
2.28      Basic guidelines of TRDB lending include (a) that the loan amount
should not exceed 75% of the total cost of the project; (b) that the value of
the loan is always extended in the form of goods, i.e., there are no cash
disbursements to borrower; (c) that the borrower maintains a regular account
with NBC and sign an irrevocable order instructing a percentage deduction from
crop payments be made directly by crop parastatals to TRDB; (d) that lending
to villages is made only to those which meet the usual lending criteria such
as good management, proper maintenance of books and accounts, prompt repayment
of previous loans; and (e) that the sub-project is economically viable. The
guidelines suggest that for all sub-projects, a rate of return of not less
than 10% and a benefit/cost ratio of not less than 1 using a 10% discount rate
should be criteria for acceptability. TRDB is considering raising both these
rates to 12%. TRDB is supposed to obtain a security for its loans; however,
in practice, security does not form an important part of the loan; the viabil-
ity of the project and good management being rightly considered more important



- 18 -
elements. If and when TRDB takes a security, particularly in the case of
development loans, it consists of a chattel mortgage on movable property. For
purposes of assessing loan limits to borrowers, TRDB finances up to 75% of the
value of the property and up to 100% of the value of Government of Tanzania
Bonds. Assurances would be obtained at negotiations that TRDB would continue
to follow the above guidelines.
2.29      Special Funds:  The Act establishing TRDB stated that it shall be
guided in its operations by sound banking principles and shall finance only
economically productive and technically feasible projects. The requirements
for TRDB to fulfill a development role and at the same time operate on the
basis of "sound banking principles" was clearly recognized in the legislation
setting up TRDB which allows it to administer "special funds." Any losses
or liabilities arising out of the use of these funds would not be charged
against the ordinary capital resources of TRDB. Assurances would be obtained
from Government that the spirit of the 1971 Act establishing TRDB would be
adhered to rigorously and that any projects which may be considered of national
priority but involving higher than normally acceptable risks or otherwise not
meeting TRDB's lending criteria would be financed through special funds with
Government bearing the risk of any such projects.
2.30      Interest Rate:  Before July 1, 1978 TRDB's interest rate charges
were generally 8.5% on seasonal loans and 7.5% p.a. on term loans calculated
on the outstanding balance. 1/ Effective July 1, 1978, TRDB's management
decided to charge a flat rate of 8.5% on all seasonal loans irrespective of
the length of the loan period in order to simplify accounting procedures. At
exactly the same time, BOT issued a directive reducing TRDB's interest rate
on all loans to 7.5% p.a. effective July 1, 1978 (para 1.27). By the same
directive NBC's interest rate charges to registered villages was increased
from 6.5% to 7.5% and to crop authorities from 7.5% to 8.5% while the rates
charged by TIB were reduced from a standard rate of 11% to 7.5% for rural
small-scale industry; 9% for commercial farms and agribusiness and 10% for
plantations and medium and large-scale industries.
2.31      To examine the appropriateness of TRDB's interest rate structure, it
is necessary to consider three elements: its administrative costs, its likely
default risk costs and the "cost" of TRDB's resources used in lending.  TRDB's
administrative costs have averaged 2.6% as a percentage of average outstanding
portfolio over the last four years. These are expected to increase substan-
tially during the Project period due to the impact of temporarily higher train-
ing and other costs. If these costs are spread over a suitably longer period
of time, overall administrative costs are estimated to average 3.2% in future.
On the other hand, the historical default risk cost to TRDB is difficult to
compute with any accuracy due to the absence of reliable information. A crude
measure had to be used whereby bad and doubtful debts over the period since
TRDB began its operations up to June 30, 1978 were compared to its total
1/   In recent years the interest rate charged on term subloans under IDA
financed projects channelled through TRDB has been 8.5%.



- 19 -
disbursements during that period. This ratio was 10%, dropping to 8% if the
debts due from cooperatives which were dissolved by Government in May 1976
are excluded. In looking at future operations of TRDB, there appears to be a
greater risk in lending directly to villages with little or no experience in
maintaining proper books and records. This risk may be outweighed however, by
the expected improvement in sub-project appraisal and supervision by TRDB, by
the availability of rescheduling facilities to be extended by BOT in case of
natural calamities (para 1.22) and by the training to be provided to village
administrators. This report, therefore, assumes that an average provision of
8% of amounts disbursed by TRDB would be sufficient to cover the default risk
in future. The interest spread required to cover this cost depends on the mix
of loan terms. Assuming that 68% of future loans are seasonal, 12% medium-term
and 20% long-term, the required spread would be 3.1%. 1/ Thus, the spread
required by TRDB to cover the cost of its operations (excluding cost of funds)
is estimated to be around 6.3%.
2.32      Assessing the "cost of funds" to TRDB poses some conceptual problems.
BOT considers that the "costs" should be considered as the actual costs paid
by TRDB, considering Government equity and grant contributions as cost free.
Under this formula, TRDB's current costs are about 1.5%, since TRDB's debt-
equity ratic is about 40:60 and TRDB has been charged about 4% on its long-
term borrowing.  In the future, the debt-equity ratio is expected to rise
to about 55:45. Should Government continue the practice of charging TRDB
only 4% on loan funds channelled to TRDB, TRDB's cost of funds on the BOT
formula would rise to about 2.2%. Therefore, even under these assumptions,
TRDB would need to charge a minimum interest rate of 8.5% to cover its costs
of funds, administration costs and default risk costs; and charging this
interest rate would provide no return to equity nor maintain the real value
of the equity base.
2.33      This 8.5% would not allow any return on TRDB's equity which raises
two issues.  First, Government's own guidelines and expectations call for a
minimum of 9% return on equity on all parastatals. Secondly, the onlending
rate to TRDB of 4% is only possible financially, because the original source
of such funds is usually a bilateral or multilateral source (such as IDA)
provided to the Government at very low cost. The interest rates that would
give TRDB a 0%, a 4.5% and a 9% return on equity are given below, taking into
consideration the three obvious options regarding the "cost" of borrowed funds
which are: 2/
(a) to accept the Governmental onlending rate of 4%;
1/   Different assumptions about the mix, within reasonably likely limits,
lead to spreads in the range of 2.5% to 3.5%.
2/   Such rates do not cover the maintenance of TRDB's equity base in view
of a current inflation rate of 17%.



- 20 -
(b)  to use the average costs that TRDB would have to pay
if it raised its own funds directly, i.e., about 6% --
this is the rate NBC pays on public deposits, plus 1%
to cover mobilization costs; and
(c)  a measure of the cost of international funds.  The current
interest rate (8%') would be the lowest possible measure o'
this, which takes into account the fact that TRDB is not
expected to take any foreign exchange risk.
Gombining the  lifee rates noted above for the return on equity, with the three
rates for costs of borrowed funds, and taking into account the 6.3% minimum
spread to cover administrative and default risk costs and the future estimated
debt-equity ratio of 55:45, gives the following matrix of minimum acceptable
interest rates for TRDB:
TRDB MINIMUM INTEREST RATES
Costs of borrowed funds
Return on Equity                     4%         6%        8%
(%)
0                             8.5        9.6     10.7
4.5                          10.5       11.6     12.7
9                            12.6       13.7     14.7
2.34      In the light of the above and the present inflation rate in Tanzania,
it is clear that TRDB would have to raise its interest charges substantially
on all its lending to achieve a positive rate in a real sense.  However, while
a higher interest rate would appear desirable, any increase has so far been
resisted by Government in view of the weakness of the agricultural sector and
Government's keen desire to support it. In addition, Government has argued
that the role of interest rates is less critical in a rural economy where the
prices of essential agricultural inputs and final produce are both tightly
regulated. Government (including BOT) and TRDB agreed to restore the lending
rate of 8.5% on all short term lending to villages while maintaining the
reduced rate of 7.5% on medium and long term loans. Loans to parastatals and
District Development Corporations (DDCs) would carry a charge of 9%, while the
interest rate on loans to individuals, partnerships, companies and associations
engaged in rural developmentL would be raised to 10%. At an average outstanding
portfolio mix of 50% short term and 30% medium and long term loans to villages,
10% to parastatals and DDCs and 10% to individuals, partnerships, companies
and associations, the weighted average annual interest rate would approximate
8.5% which would be sufficient to allow TRDB to break even. IDA would continue
to review with TRDB and Government the interest rate question on a regular
basis taking into account developments concerning TRDB's administrative,
funding and default risk coSts.
2.35      Loan Procedures.  A prospective borrower such as a village may become
aware of TRDB and its credit: program from neighboring villages, the agricul-
tural extension staff, crop development authorities, the regional authorities



- 21 -
or from the credit seminars which have been initiated by TRDB. The borrower
may then directly contact the district or regional office of TRDB for credit.
Very often the regional development authorities take the initiative and suggest
selected villages to TRDB on the basis of their own assessment of management
and production programs. In either case, the prospective borrower fills out an
application form, providing details of its organization, location, past produc-
tion and financial transactions, assets and liabilities, details of any earlier
credits from TRDB, repayments and arrears if any, as well as details of the
proposed project, its costs and the amount of finance required. Normally,
TRDB officers help the village fill the application form, and make their own
assessments of past production, as often adequate records are not available.
In assessing the credit request, TRDB regional staff check on the availability
of agricultural extension agents, suitability of the local conditions for the
proposed crops, the marketing channels, and the type of records, and the
organizational and management skills which are available in the village.  In
the cases of loans for machinery, they examine the level of use likely to be
achieved, the facilities for servicing and maintenance, the existence of
similar equipment nearby and so on.
2.36      Before a formal application for credit can be accepted, a registered
village must obtain a certificate from the district authorities or the Regis-
trar of Cooperatives providing details of any past loans outstanding and
the maximum credit limit which is allowable to that entity (para 1.11).
TRDB also ascertains from NBC the financial background of the borrowers, and
whether they have had any banking transactions with NBC. When all the neces-
sary information is available, the application form is completed and the
borrower makes a formal application and pays the application fee of 0.1%
of the requested loan amount subject to a minimum of TSh 5 (US$0.60) and a
maximum of TSh 500 (US$60).
2.37      The case is then put before the Regional Loans Committee (RLC).  The
Chairman of each RLC is appointed by the Ministry of Finance and is normally a
senior regional administrative officer. Other members include the Regional
Officers in charge of Planning, Livestock Development, Agricultural Develop-
ment, the Manager of the local office of NBC, a local Member of Parliament,
besides the Regional Manager of TRDB. The RLC earlier had a purely advisory
role but with the progress in decentralization has been given certain sanc-
tioning authority. At present, the RLC is authorized to approve fully secured
loans up to TSh 200,000 (US$24,000) or unsecured loans up to TSh 50,000
(US$6,000). In cases of applications for larger amounts, or loans to be
funded from external sources, or projects involving foreign exchange expen-
diture, the RLC may also make a recommendation and the cases must be decided
at TRDB head office. In practice, because of these restrictions, not many
cases are approved by the RLC.
2.38      Subsequently, the application forms together with the supporting
details are sent to head office for further action. The Operations Depart-
ment re-examines the first appraisal report prepared by the Regional Office



- 22 -
and may request the Regional Office for more information, undertake visits
to further examine the project feasibility, and if necessary, may prepare a
modified appraisal report. At this stage, the repayment schedule is also
drawn up depending upon the estimates of project cash flow, and a final
report prepared.
2.39      Projects which require financing up to TSh 500,000 (US$60,000) for
new borrowers or TSh 1,000,000 (US$120,000) for borrowers with previous credit
from TRDB, are submitted to the Management Loans Committee (MLC) for decision.
The MLC is headed by either the General Manager or the Managing Director and
has as its members the Senior Officers and department heads of TRDB. It meets
two or three times a month. Projects which require larger investments are
examined by the Loans Committee which is a subcommittee of the TRDB board.
It has the Chairman of TRDB as its chairman. Only a small number of projects
need to be examined by this committee.
2.40      Over the years, RLC's authorized less than 5% in value of all loans
approved in each year. Management is aware of the delays caused by this
procedure which can take up to six months from the time the application is
received until it is finally approved by head office. In view of the sub-
stantial increase in number of loans to be processed due to the dissolution of
cooperatives and the importance of timely delivery of seasonal inputs, TRDB's
management began to simplify and decentralize loan processing procedures
with regard to seasonal loans on a phased basis beginning with the 1979/80
season. In this case, any loan approved by the RLC against the recommendations
of the Regional Manager would be referred to the head office which would
continue to exercise overall control on these loans by establishing basic
parameters for loan evaluation, institution of periodic audits and applying
more stringent reporting requirements. Management also intends to strengthen
the regional offices and place greater responsibilities on them in the approval
of medium and long-term loans as and when the region develops more experience;
each case will be judged on its own merits. It is expected that the above
procedure would alleviate the burden on the head office staff leaving them to
handle projects involving more complex problems and at the same time reduce
the time required for approval of loans by about 50%. These changes are
predicated on improvement in loan appraisal techniques and staff training as
described below.
2.41      Loan Appraisal.  TRDB has generally emphasized the importance of
the training of its project officers and has made a number of documents
available to them as appraisal guidelines, both in the regions and at head
office. Nevertheless, the quality of appraisal leaves room for improvement.
There are instances of failure to distinguish between economic and financial
analysis, lack of analysis of the incremental impact of a project on the
business as a whole, inadequate justification for prices used in the analysis,
lack of uniformity over the treatment of contingencies and the inappropriate
use of discounted cash flow techniques in appraising seasonal loans. More-
over, project appraisals are frequently based on optimistic assumptions.
It is recognized that several constraints make a realistic appraisal both
difficult and lengthy. The lack of information about past performance



- 23 -
and the limited availability of technical data covering the use of improved
technology by smallholders, and the difficulty in assessing the management
ability of many new organizations such as DDC's or newly registered villages
are but a few examples. Further, the shortage of staff, particularly in
the Development Department, handicaps TRDB's efforts to provide the necessary
back-up information covering all aspects of rural development in which TRDB
is involved.
2.42      Appraisals are often inadequate not only in the data base but also
in the analysis of the available data which is often carried out in a mechan-
ical fashion. Standard yields are used without taking account of regional
variations of agro-climatic conditions, infrastructural facilities and the
management capabilities observed in the field. This is particularly so for
crop and small machinery loans, though less marked in livestock and transport
projects. This often leads to unrealistically inflated values of project
benefits. The rates of return calculated for projects reflect more an
idealized value, rather than rates of return which will be obtained in
practice.
2.43      A number of L.,a,eS would be calleu tor in the appijaa_i 'pioc_ai'E6
which would be developed by the new staff in the Development Department to be
employed under the project (para 3.15). For instance, for crop loans, it is
unrealistic to make an economic evaluation of each village input loan. Rather
a sufficient number of farm models should be developed taking regional varia-
tions in agro-climatic and farming conditions into account. For each one of
these farm models detailed and careful analysis can be carried out. The
operations staff then need not carry out fresh analysis for each case but use
one of the appropriate models developed. Similarly, for each grain mill, the
variation in the rate of return will depend only on the capacity utilization
which will depend on grain availability and machine maintenance. For most of
TRDB's sub-projects de novo calculations for each loan cannot be justified but
must be done for sectoral models. Many improvements can also be made in the
format of presentation, by use of greater standardization and the highlighting
of key information.
2.44      To improve the appraisal of sub-projects and the necessary technical
skills of TRDB staff, a number of new training schemes will be implemented.
The project provides for considerable strengthening of the Training Division
(para 3.06, et al.), and the provision of a small team of qualified experts to
carry out the training programs.  This team would also be required to assist
in the preparation of manuals on the technical aspects of the different
sectors as well as a sample of economic evaluations of different types of
sub-projects.
2.45      Loan Supervision.  It is a recognized principle that a lending in-
stitution should be in a position to ensure that the loans to its borrowers
are used for the purposes for which the funds were sanctioned. Although
virtually all TRDB loans are disbursed in kind, the credit may still be
used for a purpose for which the loan was not intended such as the sale of
fertilizer to other villages or its use on crops other than those for which
the loan was sanctioned. Lending for agricultural development is typically
a high-risk operation unless proper supervision is maintained at all times.



- 24 -
The most severe disadvantage of agricultural lending is high administrative
costs, which are unavoidabLe if borrowers are to be effectively supervised
and defaults minimized.
2.46      The shortage of staff has affected the quality of loan supervision
which is currently somewhat cursory. The required data are compiled without
making an effective judgemental contribution that permits a serious analysis
of the client and the impact of the loan itself. Supervision is also irre-
gular; acute shortage of transport facilities undoubtedly contributes to the
lack of timely and proper supervision. Where vehicles are available, they
are generally old and unreliable.
2.47      TRDB has made a considerable effort over the years to expand its
lending programs, and it has become increasingly apparent that more emphasis
should be placed on loan supervision and collection. Supervision is mainly in
the hands of the regional offices who would need the necessary complement of
credit supervisors and vehicles to ensure their mobility in order to monitor
the wide range of projects and carry out a regular programmed supervision.
In view of the logistical and other practical problems that TRDB will face
in supervising the villages directly, TRDB's management would intensify its
training of credit supervisors who would, in turn, provide technical assis-
tance to villages particularly in record keeping (para 3.11 et al). To ensure
periodic and regular programmed supervision in each region, credit supervisors
would be provided under the proposed project with motorcycles which are
generally considered more appropriate for operating in the Tanzanian conditions
(para 3.19).
2.48      Monitoring and Evaluation:  Proper supervision would also lead to
proper monitoring and evaluation of projects; a task currently not attempted.
TRDB intends to seek from the borrower on a regular basis during supervision
the physical and financial data which can readily be compared with appraisal
estimates by the Monitoring, Evaluation and Research Division which is to be
strengthened under the project for this purpose (para 3.17). Adverse variance
in project implementation would give an early warning of likely poor repayment.
In the final analysis, effective loan supervision depends on TRDB's management
at all levels receiving an adequate and appropriate flow of information
showing the progress of a project compared with the original plan and the
status of the loan account compared with the repayment schedule.
2.49      Loan Recovery:  At present, TRDB enforces its loan collection by
(i) requiring the borrower to open a regular account with NBC and simultan-
eously having the borrower sign an irrevocable letter of authority authorizing
collection through crop parastatals, by having the crop authorities deduct a
certain percentage out of the proceeds from village accounts at the time of
purchase; (ii) direct contact through credit supervisors at the regional
offices; and (iii) exhortation from local government and party workers. The
collection through NBC presupposes that the village borrowers will maintain
active accounts which is not a regular practice in rural areas. Given the
lack of transport facilities and the shortage of staff in TRDB's regional



- 25 -
offices, credit supervisors have not been as heavily involved in collecting
TRDB's loans as might be desirable. Mostly loans are recovered at source
through crop purchasing parastatals who have collected on TRDB's behalf at
various times. With the exception of the Tea Authority, the relationships
with the crop authorities have been less than satisfactory as such arrange-
ments were not based on contractual relationships between TRDB and the crop
authorities. In future TRDB would inform the crop purchasing parastatals,
within two weeks prior to the date of the commencement of each crop marketing
season, of the aggregate amount of principal and interest due from each
borrower and such parastatals would be required to deduct at source any
amounts due to TRDB relating to inputs as notified by TRDB. Assurances that
these arrangements would be put into effect were obtained at negotiations.
2.50      TRDB is planning to strengthen its regional offices particularly
with the increased resources provided under the project which should result
in improved supervision that would increase efforts in the recovery of its
loans, also, the project would provide consultants for establishment of
controls and specifications to improve the collection system.
2.51 RX    -  ' > Q0  _' lcct4-i  problems may well depend on an increased
awareness of the role played by rural credit, and efforts to encourage repay-
ment through political channels are extremely valuable at all levels but
it is also essential that TRDB possesses up to date information of borrowers
and their activities. The project, therefore, provides for the installation
of a small computer capable of handling the increased load and, producing
timely information of borrowers loans.
2.52      Loan Disbursement:  TRDB provides credit in kind, not in cash.
Either TRDB arranges for procurement and delivery of needed inputs directly
(see immediately below), or disbursements are made directly to a supplier;
on a loan becoming effective, headquarters staff of TRDB issue local purchase
orders (LPO) for the goods authorized under the loan.
2.53      Procurement:  Because of the state of the input distribution system
(para 1.19), TRDB has been directly involved in the procurement and delivery
of inputs required by smallholder beneficiaries of its loans. TRDB would
prefer to be out of the input distribution role which places a tremendous
burden on its limited manpower resources, as the collation of data for bulk
ordering, the placement of tenders, the actual execution of orders and the
arrangement for transportation pose tremendous problems in an environment
in which trucks are not easily available, roads are in poor condition, the
harbor is often congested, and communications are poor. However, it rightly
considers that it must continue to provide this service until a workable
alternative is available. Some moves in this direction are already being
considered (para 1.20) and would be further supported under the project
(para 3.20). In the meantime, TRDB is planning to strengthen its Procurement
Division at head office as it would be realistic to expect that any general
solution would require some time before it is fully implemented. However, the
transportation problem will be eased somewhat as soon as TFC has established
its zonal depots (para 1.20).



- 26 -
2.54      TRDB undertakes the procurement of agricultural inputs both from
local and foreign sources, virtually acting as a wholesaler, including the
organization of transportation to the village. In the case of machinery
and equipment, procurement is limited to dealers who agree to provide training
in the operation and maintenance of such machinery and equipment and who can
guarantee the supply of spare parts and technical services and provide proper
repairs and maintenance facilities. All goods and services are procured
whenever possible on the basis of competitive bidding. TRDB encourages the
use of locally produced goods provided this is in keeping with internationally
accepted prices. 1/
F. Performance
2.55      Background.  Under the 1971 Act, TRDB was given the task of promot-
ing the use of credit as an instrument for increasing agricultural production
and, in particular, for ensuring that this form of support reached the small
farmer. It was stressed that TRDB should only extend credit activities which
were economically viable. Thus, TRDB's lending activities were expected to
support the long-term political and social objectives of the Government,
i.e., to raise the living standard of the small peasants and to induce them
to cooperate in production as well as in marketing. At the same time, it was
made clear that TRDB should act as a financial institution which could, over
a period, generate a surplus from its lending operations. It was recognized
that TRDB's surplus would be small in the initial years of its operations,
but it was not expected to operate at a loss.
2.56      To understand how the principles have been translated into action,
it is necessary to trace and identify the major changes which have taken
place in the field of rural development since 1971. These developments
which have affected the activities of TRDB may be summarized as follows:
(a) In 1971, when TRDB started its operations, the policy of
forming Ujamaa villages had reached a stage of widespread
implementation in many regions of the country (para 1.09).
This required TRDB to work with a new type of client. Its
task was not only to assess the creditworthiness of Ujamaa
villages applying for loans; it was also expected to assist
these villages in their development by promoting the use
of credit as an instrument for increasing agricultural
production.
1/   When acting as a credit agency under a Bank Group financed project,
it employs international competitive bidding according to the Bank's
procurement guidelines.



- 27 -
(b) The decision to decentralize the Government in 1972 (para 1.06),
established strong regional authorities. From that time the
lending of TRDB has to be seen in the light of regional
priorities formulated by new Regional Development Committees.
Amiong the clients of TRDB, a new type of borrower, the District
Development Corporation (DDC) was created in 1971/72 with new
demands and pressures for loans. These new politically important
and inexperienced customers augmented TRDB's problems.
(c) The cooperative unions were the most important borrowers from
TRDB. Because of continued gross mismanagement, lack of effec-
tive records and a degree of misuse of funds, the cooperatives
were abolished in May 1976 (para 1.13). This action radically
changed the pattern of lending for TRDB by increasing its service
responsibilities and having its loan portfolio with cooperatives
become dormant.
Therefore, a review of the activities of TRDB since it began its operations
in May 1971, and an analysis of its achievements must be seen against a
background of extensive and sweeping changes in the organizational and admin-
istrative structure in the rural sector, accompanied by food shortages brought
about by the drought and significant price increases for inputs to agricul-
tural production following increases in oil and fertilizer prices.
2.57      Growth of Operations.  TRDB began its operations on May 1, 1971,
with a total portfolio transferred from NDCA of TSh 73.4 million (US$8.8 mil-
lion) of which TSh 17 million (US$2.0 million) were already in arrear. As of
June 30, 1978, the total outstanding gross portfolio amounted to TSh 436
million (US$52.5 million). Although there is no available information to
express in quantitative terms the impact of TRDB on the rural sector measured
in numbers of incremental hectares planted or tons produced, the number of
loans approved, may give an indication of its achievements over the years
which is not unimpressive. The following table shows the increase in the
volume of TRDB's operations while Tables 1 and 2 of Annex 2 give TRDB's
financial statements for the years since its inception.
Approved Loans 1971/72 to 1977/78
Number       Amount TSh (million)        Av. value TSh '000
1971/72         91                 36                          393
1972/73        103                108                        1,045
1973/74        219                161                          734
1974/75        176                203                        1,154
1975/76        158                101                          636
1976/77        238                 77                          325
1977/78     1,036                 253                          244
Total       2,021                939
2.58      The composition of TRDB's loans approved between 1973 and 1978 is
made up of approximately 68% seasonal loans; 12% medium-term loans; and 20%



- 28 -
long-term loans (Annex 2, Table 3). There are a number of factors which
contributed to the decline in the value of TRDB's operations in 1976 and 1977,
of which the most significant are:
(i)  the excessive amounts of unsold stocks of seasonal inputs
carried over by TRDB's clients from 1975;
(ii)  the dissolution of the cooperatives in May 1976, leaving
the institutional vacuum where villages were unfamiliar
with the procedures of dealing with TRDB leading to a
decline in lending; and
(iii) TRDB generally discouraged lending in 1976 and the early
part of 1977 due to a shortage of funds.
2.59      The apparent decrease in the average size of loans and the major
increase in the number of loans in 1978 are a direct result of the dissolu-
tion of cooperatives and are expected to continue as more and more villages
approach TRDB individually for loans. In total, during the seven years of
its existence, TRDB managed to process over 2,000 loans of which about 70%
were for seasonal inputs and the remaining 30% covered a wide range of activ-
ities such as farm machinery, rural transport, storage, livestock, farm
development and small-scale industries.
2.60      Financial Position.  Looking at TRDB's results of operations over
the years since inception, it is clear that the continuous changes in
accounting procedures makes a comparison difficult. Prior to 1974, TRDB
followed the practice of cash basis accounting whereby only interest received
was credited to the income statement. In 1974, the accounting procedure was
changed to accrual basis; accrued interest, however, was charged against
TRDB's net income and shown separately as "unrealized loan interest receiv-
able." This was in effect a continuation of TRDB's policy of taking credit
only for loan interest actually received during the year as income for that
year. In 1977, this procedure was finally changed to full proper accrual
basis accounting.
2.61      Prior to 1977, TRDB followed the practice of providing 1% of the
loans approved in any year for bad and doubtful debts. As of June 30, 1976,
the arrears of principal and interest amounted to TSh 72 million against
which the provision for bad and doubtful debts amounted to TSh 16 million
or about 22% of the arrears. During FY1977, the amount of principal and
interest in arrears reached TSh 124 million rising in1978 to TSh 173 million
due mainly to the dissolution of cooperatives and the liquidation of the
Tanzania Road Haulage Company. Faced with this situation, TRDB increased
its provision for bad debts to TSh 55 million in 1977 by charging TSh 20
million against its income for that year and transferring the provision of
unrealized income of TSh 19 million. In 1978, TRDB further increased
its provision for bad and doubtful debts to TSh 74 million by charging an
additional TSh 19 million against its income for that year. While at



- 29 -
first glance, the percentage of arrears appears to be high, a large percentage
belongs to the now defunct cooperatives and to a recently dissolved para-
statal. There are indications of poor repayment records by some villages
for medium-term loans and seasonal loans.   However reasonable or good repay-
ment records by other selected groups have been disclosed and much of the
adverse picture may be occasioned by earlier lending to now defunct coopera-
tives or to villages through these cooperatives. Thus, there should be
some caution in using gross loan repayment performance as a subjective criteria
of TRDB's ability at this juncture.
2.62      Due to the absence of reliable data (para 2.31), a crude measure was
used to evaluate TRDB's portfolio whereby the total of its bad and doubtful
debts during the period 1972 to 1978 was measured against the total amounts
disbursed during the same period and was found to average 10%. By excluding
the debts due from the now defunct cooperatives from both sides, the ratio
fell to 8% of disbursements. In order to maintain TRDB's capital, it was
agreed at negotiations that Government would remedy any financial loss to TRDB
resulting from unpaid debts due from cooperative unions and societies which
remain outstanding and unpaid as of June 30, 1981, in the light of TRDB's
financial position at that date.
2.63      During the five fiscal years 1974 to 1978, TRDB's outstanding loan
portfolio almost tripled in size while its long-term liabilities increased
from 40% in 1975 to 53% in 1978 as a percentage of its total portfolio.
However, the debt equity ratio remained fairly constant over those years at
around 40:60 reflecting a matching increase in the equity base through
Government grants which increased from TSh 22 million in 1975 to TSh 170
million in 1978. In general, the bulk of TRDB's medium and long-term loans
are financed through long-term onlending of IDA and bilateral aid agencies'
credits and grants, while the bulk of its seasonal lending is financed through
its equity comprised of its share capital and Government grants. TRDB had no
other available source of finance to meet any increase in demand for credit
other than Government budgetary allocations. This situation has now been
remedied by the amendment of BOT's Act (para 1.22).



- 30 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The principal purpose of the Project is to strengthen TRDB as an
instituion and to help develop its capabilities over a period of three years
to provide needed credit for economically viable rural sector projects in an
efficient manner bearing in mind that the basic thrust of TRDB's future lend-
ing activities will be to the villages. The Project includes the following:
(a)  Improved training of new and existing TRDB staff and the
establishment of six mobile units for the training of
village administrators.
(b)  Strengthening TRDB's organizational structure by:
(i)  establishing a Management Information Center with
a small computer suitable for TRDB's operations,
and the employment of consultants to implement
the computer system;
(ii)   establishing an Organization and Methods Division
and the employment of consultants to develop work
routines, controls, and a procedures manual;
(iii)  enlarging the Research Division to cover Monitor-
ing and Evaluation of TRDB's activities; and
(iv)  establishing of a "Regional Directorate" at head
office to coordinate and supervise the activities
of the regional offices.
(c) Strengthening TRDB's infrastructure by improving office
accommodation and transport facilities.
(d) Employment of consultants to assist Government in
resolving the input distribution problem.
(e)  Credit to assist in financ;,ng TRB's lending program.
B. Pr)ject ,osts
3.02      Total Project Costs are _stim_ied at TSh 110.0 million (US$13.3
million) of which about TSh 56.4 m_llir_ (US$6.8 million) or about 51% repre-
sent foreign exchange requirements. Ic.al taxes, principally import duties,
estimated at TSh 3.9 million (US$0.. m_iLlion), are included in the Project
Costs estimates.  Details of Projec-, costs are presented in Annex 2, Table 5
and are summarized below:



- 31 -
-------TSH '000--------    -------US$ '000---- -  Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total  Exch. %
Training                 4,967    8,220    13,187    599         990      1,589      62
Organizational
Improvements          5,237   10,171    15,408    631    1,225          1,856     66
Infrastructural
Improvements          6,984    9,491    16,475    841    1,144          1,985     58
Input Distribution
Study                    112      448        560      13        54         67     80
Credit                  29,880   19,920    49,800  3,600    2,400         6,000      40
TOTAL BASE LINE COSTS 47,180   48,250    95,430  5,684    5,813    11,497            51
Contingencies:
- Physical               1,730    2,834      4,564    208        341        549      62
- Price                  4,657    5,339      9,996    561        643      1,204      53
Total Contingencies    6,387    8,173    14,560    769           984      1,753      56
TOTAL PROJECT COST    53,567   56,423   109,990  6,453    6,797    13,250            51
Less: Taxes and
Duties           3,900      -         3,900    470       -          470       -
TOTAL PROJECT COST
EXCLUDING TAXES
AND DUTIES           49,667   56,423   106,090  5,983    6,797    12,780          53
3.03      Costs have been estimated at prices expected to prevail in December
1979. Physical contingencies of 10% have been included for all Project costs,
except the credit component. Allowances for price contingency have been
applied to all Project costs, except the credit component at the following
rates: 12% for 1980 and 1981 and 11% for 1982 on local costs and 9% for 1980,
8% for 1981 and 7% for 1982 on foreign exchange costs.
C. Financing
3.04      The financing of Project costs would be as follows:
US$ '000            %
IDA                        10,000              78
Government                  1,980              16
TRDB                          800               6
12,780            100
3.05      The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.0 million would be on standard
terms to the Government of Tanzania, and would finance 75% of total Project
costs, or 78% excluding taxes and duties. The credit would cover 100% of



- 32 -
foreign exchange costs (US$6.8 million) and 54% of the local costs (US$3.2
million). Government's own contribution to Project financing of US$2.5 million
(US$2.0 million net of taxes and duties) would be provided to TRDB as a grant
while Government would onlend the proceeds of the IDA credit to TRDB at a rate
not exceeding 4% p.a. repayable over 20 years, including a five-year grace
period. These terms and conditions would be incorporated into a subsidiary
loan agreement between Government and TRDB, conclusion of which, in a form
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit.
TRDB would provide out of its own resources US$0.8 million to finance approxi-
mately 50% of its acquired share in a new office building. These arrangements
would lead to an overall acceptable debt/equity ratio for TRDB of about 55:45.
D. Detailed Features
(a) Training
3.06       (i)  Staff Training.  A principal focus of the project is improved
training of TRDB's staff; the present arrangements and indications of areas for
improvement have been described in paras 2.19-2.22. At present, the training
courses for project officers and credit supervisors conducted by TRDB show a
considerable bias towards theoretical development of the subjects and insuffi-
cient use of case studies. The training program financed under the project
would be designed to provide the maximum scope for problem solving by the
participants both on an individual basis and in groups. Project appraisal
would be developed using case studies from actual projects financed by TRDB.
They would be designed to i:Llustrate the correct methodology and involve the
participants. Field visits by the participants to borrowers with the objec-
tive of collecting the basic information necessary for proper evaluation would
be made. Similarly, participants would be set the task of making independent
supervision visits to report on implementation progress, attendant problems
and possible solutions. It is only by providing such practice-oriented bias
in the training program that maximum benefits can be achieved by both the
participants and the organization.
3.07      Courses would be organized in two parts for both Project Officers
and Credit Supervisors, each of about six weeks duration. To allow for better
interchange of theory and practice, the second part would normally take place
after one year of field experience. This would also reduce disruption of
normal duties and the resultant organizational problems.
3.08      Two further courses would be provided for project officers and
credit supervisors which wouLld be in the nature of refresher courses bringing
in their ambit all operational staff in a cycle of three to four years and
would be designed to provide further opportunities to remedy skill deficien-
cies. Each course would last from seven to ten days and would cover topics
in project appraisal, new de!velopments in agricultural practices and problem
areas in operations identified from time to time.



- 33 -
3.09      With the administrative decentralization in Tanzania and a parallel
movement by TRDB, the roles of the Regional Officers and their managers have
assumed greater importance. The Regional Managers have to coordinate all
TRDB activities in the region; they have to liaise with various other admin-
istrative organizations and departments, prepare annual credit plans, are
responsible for the overall volume of operations and for loan recovery. They
also have to manage the office and all its staff, in addition to taking part
in individual projects as project officers.  While they have, in general,
received sufficient training in project appraisal and related topics through
the basic TRDB course for project officers, they have no training in various
management subjects relevant for them in their management role. For this
purpose, a one week program would be conducted annually bringing together all
Regional Managers. This seminar would be used to direct discussions on
specific problems faced by the regional managers in their operations. This
would include topics such as personnel management problems, difficulties in
communications and relations with head office, difficulties in receiving
agricultural extension or marketing services and so on. The pooling together
of their experience and the sharing of successful practices would contribute
greatly to improving their performance, to the building up of morale and would
provide a forum for discussions.
3.10      An overall schedule for the training program is set out in Annex 3,
which also includes a detailed description of the duties of the Training
Division and of the following internationally recruited specialists who
would be recruited under the project: (i) a Chief Training Officer with a
minimum of 10 years work experience in institutions dealing with agricultural
credit who would head the division and coordinate its activities with those of
the Monitoring, Evaluation and Research Division. He would be responsible for
the design and preparation of teaching materials and training programs; (ii)
an Agricultural and Farm Management Specialist with relevant experience
preferably in the developing countries to develop adequate manuals on the
technical aspects of agricultural projects (para 3.17) and assist in the
training of TRDB staff; and (iii) an Agricultural Economist with experience in
the preparation and appraisal of agricultural projects in developing countries
to develop appraisal guidelines and assist in the overall training of TRDB
staff.   The project would also provide housing for these three expatriates
due to existing shortage of houses in Dar-es-Salaam. Assurances were obtained
that the staff so recruited would have terms of reference, qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association.
3.11      (ii)  Village Training:  As noted in para 2.23, six two-man mobile
training teams would be established under the project which would travel to
centrally located villages covering 8 to 15 neighboring villages to provide
instructions to village bookkeepers in the proper maintenance of books and
records. It is intended to operate on a nationwide basis covering at least
1,000 of the villages within the project period. The program would be coor-
dinated by a Rural Credit Training Officer to be employed under the Project
within the Training and Manpower Development Division of TRDB.



- 34 -
3.12      The efforts of the mobile training program would be supplemented by
more frequent visits of the credit supervisors who would check village records
and provide any needed assistance and guidance. It is expected that as this
coordinated approach becomes successfully applied in a sufficient number of
villages, TRDB would ensure that one of its requirements for eligibility for
credit by a village, i.e., the presence of a trained bookkeeper and the
maintenance of proper records is adequately met.
(b)  Strengthening TRDB's Organizational Structure
3.13      (i)  Management Information Center:  The Project provides for
the employment of consultants (40 man/months) 1/ to recommend a small computer
suitable for TRDB's operations, provision is also made for the procurement and
installation of the recommended computer and recruitment of support staff.
The supplier would be required to provide the necessary training.
3.14      The computer center would be part of an integrated information
system in which applications would go beyond the pure accounting functions
to include statistical information and improve billing procedures. It is
anticipated that with the proposed eventual decentralization of the regional
offices, timely information with regard to loans outstanding and arrears
would be provided to each region which would be of vital importance in the
loan recovery process.
3.15     (ii)  Organization and Methods Division:  This division would be
established within the Development Department to be responsible for the
preparation and updating on a continuous basis of manuals and procedures and
to organize the flow of information within TRDB the need for which has been
described in para 2.49. Consultants would be employed (48 man/months) 2/ to
assist TRDB in setting up this division and defining the rules, practices and
procedures by which TRDB staff are to operate. The consultants would, in
particular establish controls and specifications for the collection system
and implement new procedures manual.Provision is made for the recruitment of
staff to man this division (including its head) who would be trained in their
functions by the consultants. Provision is also made for the procurement of
the necessary office furniture and equipment.
3.16    (iii)  Monitoring, Evaluation and Research Division:  The Project
would strengthen the existing Research and Statistics Division (para 2.11) by
incorporating the monitoring and evaluation function of all TRDB's activities.
Provision is made for the recruitment of staff and the procurement of office
furniture and equipment. An indication of the role of monitoring and evalua-
tion has been given in discussing TRDB's operating policies and procedures
(para 2.48).
1/   Cost per man/month US$10,000 including overheads.
2/   Cost per man/month US$8,000 including overheads.



- 35 -
3.17      This Division, with the assistance of the Training Division, would
be responsible for the development of manuals. In this respect, special
attention would be given to the development of simple, basic technical manuals
for each crop and activity financed by TRDB. These would provide information
on the types of farm inputs, good crop farming practices, pests and diseases,
suitable farm models for different climatic conditions and social organiza-
tion. Examples determining investment needs of projects, likely problems
and the methodology for project appraisal would also be covered. A good
beginning has already been made with the development of a manual for live-
stock projects and this effort would be continued to cover all other activ-
ities of TRDB.
Strengthening TRDB's Infrastructure
3.18      (i)  Office Improvement:  The existing TRDB office facilities are
inadequate, filing cabinets and stationary supplies are piled in the corri-
dors. In view of the expected expansion of its activities and the increase
in its staff TRDB has contracted with other institutions to acquire a share
participation in the construction of a new office building. Construction
of the building began in 1978 by contractors chosen in compliance with local
competitive bidding p5ocedures. With the construction of this building TRDB
would acquire 3,300 m of office space which is adequate to cope with its
office needs, training facilities and data processing space requirements.
The cost of this new office space would be financed by TRDB and Government.
Provision is also made under the Project for the procurement of additional
office furniture and equipment.
3.19      (ii) Transport Facilities:  To increase the mobility of TRDB staff
engaged in project appraisal and supervision (para 2.47), funds are provided
under the Project for the purchase of three cars for head office staff; 25
four-wheel-drive vehicles for regional offices; and 67 motorcycles for field
credit supervisors. Each regional office would be provided with at least one
four-wheel-drive vehicle and credit supervisors would be provided with a
motorcycle each in all the regions where the terrain allows the use of this
mode of transport. To encourage proper maintenance of motorcycles, credit
supervisors will obtain them through purchase from TRDB.
(d) Input Distribution Study
3.20      In view of the difficulties faced by TRDB in the physical distribu-
tion of inputs (para 2.53), Government has undertaken the responsibility of
resolving this problem (para 1.20) with a view to relieving TRDB of this
burden, thereby enabling it to act as a purely financial institution. Funds
are, therefore, provided under the Project for the employment of consultants
(8 man/months) 1/ to assist Government in this task. The Terms of Reference
of these consultants would be subject to prior consultation with IDA.
1/   Cost per man/month US$8,000 including overheads.



- 36 -
(e) Credit
3.21      Funds are provided under the Project to assist in the financing of
TRDB's lending program over the three-year project period (Annex 2, Table 3).
These funds would be in the form of a general line of credit to be used by
TRDB in the course of its normal operations. It is intended that this would
be in the nature of a pilot project since it is the first such general line of
credit offered to TRDB by IDA. It is of a modest size, representing only 6%
of TRDB's projected annual loan disbursement. Certain limits would be placed
on the application of these funds, particularly on the size of the subloans
which would be made without IDA's prior approval. First, there would be a
free limit of US$30,000 for seasonal inputs and farm machinery loans, US$70,000
for livestock loans, and US$100,000 for all other loans with an overall limit
of US$200,000 to any individual village or entity. These limits are suffi-
ciently high so as to give TRDB proper decision making responsibility.
Secondly, funds under the credit allocated to seasonal loans would be limited
to crops for which there are established practices and would only be disbursed
on an incremental basis. Lending would also be made only to villages which
meet the usual lending criteria such as good management, proper maintenance of
books and accounts, prompt repayment of previous loans and economic viability
of the enterprise. Finally, funds under the credit would be limited to five
regions to be selected in consultation with the Association which are active
regions with an already established demand for credit and where TRDB's activ-
ities are expected to expand at a faster rate than other regions. This would
facilitate monitoring and evaluation of project results within the short span
of the project period as a gauge for future lending to TRDB and expansion of
its activities under future projects. Assurances were obtained at negotia-
tions that the above limits and conditions would be adhered to.
E. Procurement
3.22      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the
Bank/IDA guidelines: (a) orders for furniture, office equipment, and computer
materials (US$0.4 million) would be bulked to the maximum extent possible
and procured through local competitive bidding (LCB); (b) vehicles (US$0.7
million) would be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB);
(c) consultants to study TRDB's accounting and management information system
and support computer programming and installation (US$0.5 million), consultants
to establish routines and procedures (US$0.4 million), and consultants to
prepare an input distribution study (US$0.1 million) would be procured in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines for selection of consultants; (d) houses
(US$0.2 million) would be procured under local competitive bidding. Office
accommodation (US$1.4 million) has been tendered and awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding. Computer machines (US$0.7 million) would be
procured in a manner to be decided, in consultation with IDA, after the
recommendations of the consultants are known. TRDB would use its regular
procurement procedures which are satisfactory, in respect of purchases on
behalf of borrowers under the general line of credit.



- 37 -
3.23      Draft tender documents for all contracts (except the office accom-
modation), expected to cost in excess of US$50,000, would be submitted to the
Bank for approval before invitations are issued. Bid analysis and recommenda-
tions for award would be submitted to the Bank for comment before contracts
are awarded. Assurances that the above procurement procedures would be
followed were obtained at negotiations.
F. Disbursement
3.24      IDA would disburse on the following basis:
(a)  100% of the foreign expenditures or 80% of local expenditures
for vehicles (US$0.7 million), consultants (US$1.0 million),
computer machines (US$0.7 million), training courses (US$0.2
million), and salaries and benefits of expatriate personnel
(US$0.5 million).
(b)  80% of local costs for furniture, office equipment, and
computer materials (US$0.4 million).
(c)  70% of local expenditures for houses, salaries and benefits,
travelling allowances, and running costs of training mobile
units (US$0.6 million).
(d)  80% of the incremental cost of loans disbursed by TRDB under
the general guide line of credit (US$5.0 million).
As noted above (para 3.05), Government and TRDB would fully finance the office
buildings. In order to expedite project start-up, provision would be made to
disburse retroactively up to US$100,000 for expenditure incurred after October
31, 1979 on recruitment of consultants to study TRDB's accounting and manage-
ment information system and to recommend a computer suitable for TRDB's
operations.
3.25      Disbursement against vehicles, computer machines, furniture, con-
sultants, civil works by contracts would be fully documented. Disbursements
against local salaries and benefits, travelling allowances and running costs
of training mobile units would be against certificates of expenditures signed
by the Managing Director of TRDB.   TRDB is capable of maintaining the documen-
tation and records which would be retained by TRDB until one year after the
closing date. The records and accounts covering such expenditures for which
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure would be subject
to specific auditing. Disbursements against the general line of credit for
subloans (para 3.21) would be against certificates signed by the Managing
Director specifying (i) that subloans are made in one of the selected regions;
(ii) that for seasonal inputs loans, such subloans are incremental to the
total previous year's loans in that region and (iii) that no funds were
received by TRDB to cover the specific subloan from any other source. The
documentation which would not be submitted to IDA would be retained by the
Borrower for inspection by supervision missions. A schedule showing the
estimated pattern of disbursement of the IDA credit is presented in the
following table:



- 38 -
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements of IDA Funds
(US$'000)
Disbursements             Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year                    in               Disbursements at
and Quarter Ending              Quarters             the End of Quarter
1979/80 March /a
June /b                      -                        -
1980/81 September                  600                       600
December                   800                    1,400
March                    1,000                    2,400
June                     1,200                    3,600
1981/82 September                1,200                    4,800
December                 1,000                    5,800
March                      800                    6,600
June                       800                    7,400
1982/83 September                  600                    8,000
December                   600                    8,600
March                      400                    9,000
June                       400                    9,400
1983/84 September                  300                    9,700
December /c                300                   10,000
/a   Estimated quarter of signing of loan agreement.
/b   Estimated quarter of loan effectiveness.
/c   Estimated quarter of project completion.
G. Accounts, Audit and Reports
3.26      Separate accounts geared to produce information and control related
to the lines of credit financed under this project, would be kept by TRDB.
TRDB's accounts are presently satisfactorily audited by the Tanzania Audit
Corporation. Audited financial statements for the years up to June 30, 1977,
have been submitted to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the above accounts would be maintained, that TRDB's accounts would continue
to be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the accounts
and auditors report would be submitted to the Association within six months
of the end of TRDB's fiscal year. A separate report in respect of the expendi-
tures and records related to statements of expenditures would be prepared by
the auditors and submitted to the Association not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year. Assurances were also obtained at negotiations
that TRDB would submit quarterly financial statements together with a progress
report within three months of the end of each quarter and that within six
months of the end of the project period, TRDB's management would prepare a
project completion report.



- 39 -
IV. PROSPECTS AND JUSTIFICATION
4.01      TRDB remains the main vehicle for rural credit in Tanzania.  It is
charged with a major role in the development of the rural sector and is di-
rected toward assisting a large number of people through emphasis on lending
to villages. The principal purpose of the proposed assistance to TRDB is to
strengthen it as an institution. In the area of achieving institutional com-
petence, however, there appears to be an inverse relationship between the
number of limitations and requirements placed on any funds available to the
institution and the development of institutional ability; the more restrictions
imposed, the less the need and opportunity to develop an ability. So far,
TRDB has been acting as a conduit for IDA and other bilateral aid funds aimed
at a specific crop or project. Decisions on who gets the funds and for what
purpose are made largely outside TRDB. Consequently, these credits have con-
tributed very little to TRDB's institutional capability and future viability
even though they may have influenced short and medium term crop production.
4.02      Following the dissolution of cooperatives, the number of loans pro-
cessed by TRDB in its direct lending to villages has increased sharply. This
sharp increase necessitates the recruitment of additional project officers,
credit supervisors and accounting staff that would be required to help TRDB
in dealing with this increased number of clients and in assessing the credit
worthiness of villages with little or no previous experience in bookkeeping,
inadequate records and limited managerial skills. For this purpose, training
of TRDB staff at all levels would be of major importance. The strengthening
of TRDB under the Project is expected to yield a number of dividends; at
the most basic level it would allow TRDB staff to fulfill routine demands
which must be carried out by any financial institution. The streamlining of
its organizational structure and the installation of a computer capable
of handling the increased load would produce the added advantages of pro-
duction of a wide range of information necessary for effective management.
TRDB's loan collection problems may well depend on increased awareness of
the role played by rural credit, and efforts to encourage repayment through
political channels would be extremely valuable at all levels, but it would
also be essential for TRDB to possess up to date information on its borrowers
and their activities. Lack of proper information is in most cases a contri-
butory factor to arrears and provides an excellent excuse for borrowers to
delay or avoid loan repayment. Further, by the use of the threat of withhold-
ing any financing to an area if adequate extension services are not provided,
TRDB can act as a positive force in coordinating extension services and
increasing rural productivity.
4.03      Financial projections were prepared for TRDB based on the followng
assumptions: (Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2)
(a) All new subloans will be made at an average annual interest
rate of 8.5% (para 2.34).
(b) Default risk cost was calculated at 8% of annual disburse-
ments (para 2.31) and provided for in the year the funds
were disbursed.



- 40 -
(c) Loan recovery is assumed to improve gradually during the project
period from 70% repayment on the due date for loans disbursed in
the first year to 80% for loans disbursed in the third year.
(Total repayment in all cases 92%.)
(d)  Government would remedy any financial losses to TRDB arising out
of the dissolution of cooperatives estimated at TSh 30 million
(US$3.6 million) (para 2.62).
(e) Funds onlent to TRDB would carry an interest charge of 4%
and would be repayable over 20 years including a five-year
grace period (para 3.05).
4.04      With the increasing long term liabilities of TRDB under this
project as well as under other IDA projects, the equity base would relatively
decrease thereby increasing the cost of funds to TRDB. However, the projec-
tions show that the debt/equity ratio of TRDB would average 55:45 during the
project period. This gives TRDB a sound equity base and adequate cushion
against possible erosion of equity due to portfolio losses. The projections
also show that TRDB's interest revenue averaging 8.5% per annum may be suffi-
cient for it to break even assuming an average default risk cost of 8% of
annual disbursements. As TRDB's long-term debts continue to rise relative to
its equity base, its cost of funds would increase. TRDB's ability to generate
a surplus would depend to a large degree on its ability to improve its record
of loan recovery while maintaining its debt/equity ratio constant. The
Government's keen desire to support the agricultural sector is matched by its
interest in supporting TRDB's loan recovery efforts (para 2.50) and maintaining
it as a financially viable institution. Interest rates charged by TRDB would
also be kept under constant review by Government and the Association (para 2.34).
4.05      Under the Project, Government would provide TRDB with its contribu-
tion to Project financing in the form of a grant so that the debt/equity ratio
does not fall below 60:40 giving TRDB a sound financial basis and keeping its
cost of funds within manageable limits (para 3.05). The cash flow analysis
(Annex 2, Table 4) shows that TRDB would have sufficient funds during the pro-
ject period and would only run into cash deficits after that period while con-
tinuing to maintain a cash balance of TSh 60 million. It is assumed that such
deficits could be easily covered from the now available resources through DOT.
4.06      The project is not without risks; but the risks are basically
those attached to the credit component, i.e., the problems of credit recovery.
Because large grants and subsidies in one form or another were given to settle-
ment schemes and Ujamaa villages, loans in the minds of many people came
to mean grants. However, TRDB has already begun a policy aimed at educating
the villages in the concept of credit through seminars to village administra-
tors, cutting villages off from future loans unless they repay outstanding
ones and in some cases foreclosing on defaulters. If all or any of these
measures can bring villages and peasants to realize that a loan must be re-
paid then the risks would have been reduced to a minimum.
4.07      This Project does not lend itself to a ready calculation of the
economic rate of return. However, under TRDB's present policy statement, the
criteria of acceptability of sub-projects would be a rate of return of not
less than 10% and a benefit cost ratio of not less than one using a discount
rate of 10%.



- 41 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  Government would undertake to satisfy TRDB's requirements
of university graduates (para 2.16).
(b)  TRDB would follow the guidelines in its lending operations
outlined in paragraph 2.38.
(c)  Any projects which may be considered of national priority
involving higher than normally acceptable risks or other-
wise not meeting TRDB's lending criteria, would be financed
through the provision of special funds with Government
bearing the risk of any such project (para 2.29).
(d)  TRDB would charge the annual interest rates outlined in
para 2.34 on its loans beginning with the date of signing
of this project.
(e)  TRDB would inform the crop purchasing parastatals within
two weeks prior to the date of commencement of each crop
marketing season of the aggregate amount of principal and
interest due from each sub-borrower which the crop parastatals
would be required to deduct at source for account of TRDB
(para 2.50).
(f)  All debts due from dissolved cooperatives would be liquidated
by June 30, 1981 (para 2.62).
(g)  The financing arrangements would be in accordance with the
terms and conditions outlined in para 3.05.
(h)  all internationally recruited staff provided for under the
project would have terms of reference, qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association (para 3.10).
(i)  All funds under the general line of credit would be subject
to the limits and conditions stated in para 3.21.
(j)  TRDB's accounts would continue to be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and the audited accounts and the
auditors' report would be submitted to the Association within
six months of the end of TRDB's fiscal year (para 3.26).



- 42 -
(k) TRDB would submit quarterly financial statements together
with a progress report within three months of the end of
each quarter and that within six months of the end of the
Project period, TRDB's management would submit to the
Association a project completion report (para 3.26).
5.02      The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Appointment of a head of the "Regional Directorate" with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association
(para 2.08).
(b) Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between Government and
TRDB in a form satisfactory to IDA incorporating the arrange-
ments in para 3.05.
5.03      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the Project would
be suitable for IDA financing of US$10 million.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
TRDB
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
TRDB's Involvement in IDA-assisted Projects
1.  Agricultural Credit Project                         Credit No. 80-TA
This credit became fully disbursed at roughly the same time that
TRDB came into existence. TRDB has inherited the collection task only.
2.   Flue-Cured Tobacco Project                         Credit No. 217-TA
TRDB took over its functions under this project from its pre-
dessor institution. It acts merely as a credit channel based on information
provided by the Tobacco Authority.
3.   Smallholder Tea Development Project                Credit No. 287-TA
TRDB acts only as a channel for credit to growers on the basis
of information given to it by the Tea Authority (TTA), and loans to TTA
for tea factories and establishment of nurseries, as appraised in advance
by IDA.
4.   Second Livestock Development Project               Credit No. 382-TA
The project was designed as a broadly based integrated program
aimed at increasing beef production in Tanzania through the development of
ranches, cattle markets, stock routes, holding grounds and meat plants and
the provision of technical services. The ranches include major parastatal
ranches, ranches owned by the District Development corporations and village
ranches.
TRDB acts as the lending channel for loans to project beneficiaries.
The Project Management Unit advises TRDB in evaluating all investment plans
as to their technical, financial and economic suitability. However, TRDB
approves or rejects loan proposals on the basis of its own evaluation. TRDB
carried out its obligations satisfactorily and played a positive role in
the financial rehabilitation of some parastatal ranches that were facing
financial difficulties. TRDB has (rightly) suspended disbursements to some
DDC ranches and village ranches; and has (again rightly) refused to lend to
any further DDC ranches and village ranches in high density, over-grazed
areas.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.   Geita Cotton Project                                Credit No. 454-TA
TRDB was to act merely as a credit channel to cooperatives who
onlend to farmers.  After dissolution of the cooperatives, it has acted
only on the basis of information from the Cotton Authority.
6.   Kigoma Rural Development Project                    Credit No. 508-TA
The project supports village development in the Kigoma region
and consists of: investment in village social infrastructure (e.g. water
supply, education and health facilities); loans to eligible and creditworthy
villages for economic infrastructure and agricultural inputs; loans to
creditworthy sub-borrowers for transport and storage facilities; investments
in regional supporting services and technical assistance.
TRDB acts merely as a credit channel to cooperatives who onlend
to farmers based on recommendation by project management.
7.   Dairy Development Project                           Credit No. 580-TA
The project respresents the first stage of a long-term program
to develop dairy farming in Tanzania. It is designed to support the reha-
bilitation and expansion of commercial diary production on parastatal farms,
improve milk collection and processing facilities and provide the basis for
dairy development in the traditional sector by supporting a pilot ujamaa
dairy program and by producing upgraded heifers.
TRDB acts as a channel for IDA-financed loans for the various
project beneficiaires. It has direct responsibility for preparing and
supervising loans for ujamaa dairy units in conjunction with the regional
livestock services and approves loans on the basis of investment plans
prepared by the responsible agencies. TRDB has carried out its obligations
under the project in a satisfactory manner and is investigating alternative
ways of assisting the village smallholder due to poor response to the ujamaa
component.
8.   Fisheries Development Project                       Credit No. 652-TA
The project represents the first stage of a long-term program to
develop fisheries production in Tanzania. It is designed to support the
establishment and development of commercial fisheries at selected centers
along the coast and on Lake Tanganyika and assist in the adoption of improved
fishing techniques, improve marketing and provide the basis for fisheries
development in the traditional sector by supporting a pilot fisheries program
in about 20 ujamaa villages located on the shore of Lake Tanganyika.
In addition to its role as a channel for funds to the commercial
centers, TRDB was assigned the task of preparing investment plans for the
ujamaa villages. TRDB has carried out its task satisfactorily in spite of
delays caused by circumstances beyond its control such as the outbreak of
cholera.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.   National Maize Project                             Credit No. 660-TA
The project aims at improving and expanding the maize production
program started by the Government in 1973 by providing input and extension
packages designed to increase maize production in about 950 villages located
in the best maize growing areas in 13 regions of Tanzania; it also provided
for village stores.
TRDB's Role:
(a) TRDB was not assigned any role to play in financing inputs
under the project at the outset, since these were supposed
to have been sold on a cash basis only. However, after
facing considerable difficulties, Government made a decision
on October 1977 that imputs should be provided under credit
and that financing function be handed over to TRDB. TRDB assumed its
role beginning with 1978/79 season on the understanding that under
the redesign maize project it would apply its own operational
policy guidelines in evaluating eligible borrowers.
(b) TRDB was expected to appraise villages for the financing of
stores, on the recommendation of the Project Implementation
Unit. PIU has recently submitted a standard design and a list
of villages to TRDB - but the latter has (rightly) rejected
the store design, as being too elaborate and expensive for
many areas. Designs reflecting local area conditions, gen-
erally leading to lower cost structures, are now being drawn
up. The lending for villages stores would, however be under-
taken only on an experimental basis until profitability of
such investment is fully established.
10.       Tobacco Handling project
TRDB will have specific responsibility for the administration
of seasonal imput credit for bulking bags and long-term credit for the
construction of grading and baling centers.



ANNEX 2
TANZANIA                                                           Table 1
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPFENT BANK
Income Statements
(TSh Million)
-_____ Audited ------------
1/                                 1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86
Interest Income                                         19          33         32         40        49          54         58          62         64         65        67
Other Income                                              1          3          5          5         5           5           5          5          5           5         5
Total Revenue                                        20         36          37        45         54          59         63         67          69         70        72
Cost of Funds                                            4           6          7         11        14          16         18          20         22         24         26
Gross Revenue                                        16         30          30         34       40           43         45         47          47         46        46
Administrative Expenses:
- Salaries & Benefits                                 3          4          5          6          8          10         10         10          10         10        10
- Transport                                           1          2          2          3          3           5          5          5           5          5         5
- Occupancy                                           1          1           1          1         1           1          1           1          1          1         1
- Depreciation                                        1          1          2          2          2           3          3          4           4          4         4
- Other Costs                                         1          1           1          1         2           3          3           3          3          3         3
Total                                                 7          9          11         13        16          22         22         23          23         23        23
2/
Bad &  Doubtful Debts                                    3          20         18         20        21          22         23          24         25         25         25
3/
Net Income                                               6           1         1           1         3                      -           -         (1)        (2)        (2)
Ratios:                         4/
As a % of average portfolio
- Intcrcst Income                                     5.9        8.6       7.4         8.1       8.2          8.1        8.0        8.0       7.9          7.7       7.6
- Cost of Funds                                       1.2        1.6       1.6         2.2       2.4          2.4        2.5        2.6       2.7          2.8       3.0
- Administrative Costs                                2.2        2.3       2.6         2.6       2.7          3.3        3.0        3.0       2.8          2.7       2.6
- Bad and Doubtful Debts                              0.9        5.2       4.2         4.1       3.5          3.3        3.2        3.1       3.1      .  3.0        2.8
- Net Income                                          1.9        0.2       0.2         0.2       0.5         (0.2)        -          -       (0.1)        (0.2)     (0.2)
1/ Interest income was recorded on a cash basis up to'75/76 and on accrual basis thereafter.
For projections it was assumed that interest rate averages 8.5% p.a.
2/ Assumed for projection purposes at 8% of total disbursement in each year.
3/ TRDB was exempted from income tax in 1973/74.
4/ Including overdue interest.
January 1980



ANNEX 2
Table 2
TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Balance Sheets
(TSh Million)
_____----- Audited --------
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86
ASSETS
Loan Portfolio                                       344        425        436        549        641        698        752       798          826        862        897
Less: Provision for doubtful debts                    36         55          74        94        115         137       160        184         209        234        259
Net Loan Portfolio                                   308        370        362        455        526        561        592       614          607        628        638
Fixed Assets                                           4         12         15         16         17         32         48         66          70         74         78
Less: Accumulated Depreciation                          2          3          3          4          6          9         12        16          20         24         28
Net Fixed Assets                                       2           9         12        12         11         23          36        50          50         50         50
Current Assets                                                                                                                                                              4
- Inventories                                         31         14         70         70         70          70         70        70          70         70         70
- Sundry Debtors                                      15         24         39         69         69         69         69        69           69         69         69
- Cash & Bank Balances                                71        110        114         78         80         75         62        60           60         60         60
Sub-Total                                         117        148        223        217        219        214        201       199         199         199        199
Less: Current Liabilities                               6          9          9         11        12          12          9        14          16         15         14
Net Current Assets                                   111        139        214        206        207        202        192       185          183        184        185
421        518        588        673        744        786        820       849         851        862        873
Financed by:
- Long-term Liabilities                                 164        199        233        317        385        421        448       471          474        487        500
- Government Grants                                       74        135        170        170        170        177        184       190         190        190        190
- Share Capital                                          172        172        172       172        172         172        172       172         172        172        172
- Retained Earnings                                       11         12         13         14        17          16         16        16          15         13         11
421        518        588       673        744         786        820       849         851        862        873
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                                      39:61      38:62      40:60      47:53      52:48      53:47      54:46    55:45         55:45      56:44      57:43
January 1980



TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Sectorial Distribution of Loans
(T. Shs Million)
Actual                                                              Projections
1972       1973       1974       1975       1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983        1984
(Project Years)                                                                                                             (1)         (2)        (3)        (4)        (5)
I.  VALUES
Seasonal  Inputs                                             20.9       61.9       85 9      141.8       38.4       52.9      172.3         173        180        187        194        202        211
Farm Machinery                                                1.0         2.0        1.3        4.1        1.0        0.3        1.5          3          3          4          4          4           5
Rural Transport                                               6.6        8 6       30.4        15.7        1.1       5.2         4.6         10         15         20         20         20          20
Storage                                                       5.3        1.9        0.4        0.2         1.4        0.7         .2          6          7          9         10         11          12
Farm Development                                              1.0       24.5       12.8         0.1        -         0.5          -           1          1          1         -          -           -
Livestock                                                     0.5         7.8      25.8        37.6      57.7       14.7        60.1         35         28         29         29         30          30
Fisheries                                                     -          0.9        1.3         1.1        -         0.6        10.7         19         20         20         20         20          20
Small Scale Industries                                        0.5          -        2.7        2.7         0.9       2.4         3.9          6          7          8         10         12          15
TOTAL                      35.8      107.6      160.6      203.3      100.5       77.3      253.3        253         261        278        287        299        313
II.  GROWTH RATES
Seasonai  Inputs                                                         196          39        65       -72          38         226         -           4          4          4          4           4
Farm Machinery                                                            100        -35        212      -75          -71        400        100         -          33         -          -           25
Rural Transport                                                            30       253         -49         -          -         -12        117         50         33         -          -           -
Storage                                                                   -64       -79         -50         _         -52        -71         -          17         29         11         10           9
Farm Development                                                           -         -52         -                     -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -
Livestock                                                                  -        231          46         54         -         309        -42        -2           2         _           2
Fisheries                                                                  -          51        -15         -          -          -          78          5         -          -           -          -
Small Scale Industries                                                                -          -         -67        _           63         54         17         14         25         20          25
TOTAL                                   201         49          27       -51        -23        228          -           3          6          3          4           4
III.  NUMBER OF LOANS
Seasonal Inputs                                                56          71       140          62         71       190         882      1,150      1,200      1,255      1,315      1,380      1,455
Farm Machinery                                                 13           6          6         16          7          1          9         17         19         21         23          25         27
Rural Transport                                                12           7         17         20          5          5          8         17         23         28         28         28          28
Storage                                                          1          2          2          1         19         23         -         100        100        110        110        110         110
Farm Development                                                 3          5          4          1         -           1          1         50         50         50         -           -          -
Livestock                                                        1          7         16         22         27         11         24         43         44         54         64          74         74
Fisheries                                                      -            3          4          3         -           4          9         20         20         20         20          20         20
Small Scale Industries                                          5           2         30         51         28          3        103        110        110        120        130        140         150
Others                                                          _-                                          -          - _  _  _  _          _          _                                            -
TOTAL                         91        103        219         176       158        238      1,036       1,496      1,566      1,658      1,690      1,777      1,864
IV.  AVERAGE VALUE OF THE LOANS (T.shs '000)
Seasonal Inputs                                               375        873        614      2,287        540        274         200        150        180        149        148        146         145
Farm Machinery                                                 78        335        220        256        147        293        162         180        180        190        190        190        190
Rural T-ansport                                               547      1,227      1,786        785        227      1,048         581        600        660        620        720        720         720
Storage                                                     5,318        950        228        202         75         29        200          60         72         86         94        103        113
Farm Development                                              316      4,896      3,199        1130         -        500          -          20         20         20         -          -           -
Livestock                                                     486      1,109      1,612      1,709      2,135      1,338      2,504         820        640        540        450        410        410
Fisheries                                                       -        287        328         366         -        144      1,188         950      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000
Small Scale Industries                                         -          27         91         51          30       801          38         60         66         73         80         88         97
TOTAL                       393      1,045        734      1,154        636        325        244        169         167        168        170        168        168
December 22, 1978



ANNEX 2
Table 4
TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Proiected Cash Flows
(TSh Million)
1978/79      1979/80     1980/81      1981/82      1982/83      1983/84       1984/5      1985/86
CASH INFLOW
Loan Collection:
- Principal                                       127          178          229          242          263          300          293        296
- Interest                                         23           40           47           48           51           50           49         48
Other Income                                            5            5           5            5            5             5            5          5
External Loans/Credits:
- Existing Commitments                             88           76           26           26           25           10
- IDA Credit                                                                 25           27           24
- New Requirements  1/                                                                                              20           43         43
Government Grant   2/                                                             7            7            6
Total Cash Inflow                                    243          299          339          355          374          385          390        392
CASH OUTFLOW
Loan Disbursement                                    253          261          278          287          299           313          313        313
Loan Repayment:
- Principal                                         4            8           15           26           26           27           30         30
- Interest                                         11           14           16           18           20           22           24         26
Proiect Costs                                                                   16           18           12            4            4          4
Operating Costs                                        11           14           19          19            19           19           19         19
Total Cash Outflow                                   279          297          344          368          376          385          390        392
SURPLUS/ (DEFICIT)                                       (36)           2           (5)         (13)          (2)          -            -          -
Opening Cash Balance                                     114           78           80           75           62           60           60         60
Closing Cash Balance                                      78           80           75           62          60            60           60         60
1/ Represents new funds required to maintain a cash balance of TSh 60.0 million.
2/ Represents Government contribution to Project financing in the form of a grant.
January 1980



TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOREMENT BANK
Project Costs                                                                            -t.
(TSh '000)                                                                             |A|,>
Year 1                          Year 2                       Year 3                         Total
Local       Foreign           Local       Foreign           Local        Foreign           Local        Foreign           GRAND TOTAL
Training: TRDB Staf f
Salaries + Benefits                                 556          1,033            757          1,407            772          1,435            2,085          3,875               5,960
Support Facilities                                  495            969             147           287                                            642          1,256               1,898
Outside Courses                                      95            467            121            587            121             587             337          1,641                1,978
Sub-Total                                      1,146          2,469          1,025          2,281            893          2,022           3,064          6,772                9,836
Village Clients
Salaries + Benefits                                 300            149            542            270             784            391           1,626            810               2,436
Support Facilities                                   95            220             91            209              91            209             277            638                  915
Sub-Total                                        395            369            633            479            875            600            1,903          1,448               3,351
TOTAL                                             1,541          2.838          1.658          2.760          1.768           2.622           4.967          8.220               13.187
Organizational Improvements:
M.I.C.: Computer Machines                           152            445           1,416         4,130                                          1,568          4,575                6,143
Consultant Support                          144            576            256          1,024            240            960             640          2,560                3,200
Staff Support                                                             178                           422                            600                                 600
Furniture & Office Equipment                  1              2              3              8             34             62               38             72                 110
Sub-Total                               297          1,023          1,853          5,162            696           1,022           2,846          7,207              10,053
Systems:Consultant Support                          166            666            269          1,075             179            717             614          2,458               3,072
Staff Support                               113            -              113            -              179            -               405             -                   405
Furniture & Office Equipment                  3              5                                             1              1               4              6                  10
Sub-Total                                        282            671            382          1,075            359            718            1,023          2,464               3,487
C,
Research:Salaries + Benefits                         422            142            455            164             468            173           1,345            479                1,824   i
Support Facilities                           23             21                                                                          23             21                   44
Sub-Total                               445            163             455            164            468            173           1,368            500                1,868
TOTAL                                             1.024          1,857          2,690          6,401          1.523          1.913            5.237         10,171              15.408
Infrastructural Improvements
Office Accommodation                              3,412          3,412          1,150          1,150          1,150          1,150            5,712          5,712              11,424
Furniture & Equipment                                13             22              13            22               3              9              29             53                   82
Motor Vehicles & Motorcycles                        382          1,142            471          1,414             390          1,170           1,243          3,726               4,969
TOTAL                                             3.807          4.576          1,634          2,586          1,543          2,329            6.984          9,491              16.475
Input Distribution Study                                       112            448                                                                         112            448                  560
Credit                                                       9,540          6,360          9,540          6,360         10,800          7,200          29,880         19,920               49,800
Total Base Cost                                             16,024         16,079         15,522         18,107         15,634         14,064          47,180         48,250               95,430
Contingencies: Physical                                        648            972            598          1,175            485            686            1,730         2,834                4,564
Price                                          862            982          1,689          2,336          2,106          2,021           4,657          5,339                9,996
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES                                          1,510          1.954          2.287          3.511          2.591          2.707           6 387          8.173               14.560
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          17.534         18.033         17809          21,618         18.225         16,771          53,567         56.423              109,990
January 1980



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Training Program
Schedule for TRDB Training Division
1979     1980      1981
1.   Basic Program for Credit I                          X         X         X
Supervisors (6 weeks each) II                      X         X         X
2.   Basic Program for Project I                         X         X
Officers (6 weeks each)   II                                 X         X
3.   Refresher Program for Credit
Supervisor (7 to 10 days)                          X         X         X
4.   Refresher Program for Project
Officers (7 to 10 days)                            X         X         X
5.   Administrative Procedures and
Systems for Support Staff (7 days)                 X         X         X
6.   Technical Course on   (i)  maize
(ii)  coffee                4         3         3
(5 to 6 days each) (iii)  tobacco
(iv) livestock
(v) transport &
small industry
(vi) storage
7.   Seminar for Regional Managers (7 days)              X         X         X
8.   High Level Seminars on Rural Development
( 3 days)                                          X         X         X
9.   Accounting Systems and Procedures for
Regional Ofice (7 days)                            X
10.  Village Training by Mobile Units (7 days)          125       250       375



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
COURSE CONTENT OF PROGRAMS FOR CREDIT
SUPERVISORS AND PROGRAM OFFICERS
Basic Program for Credit Supervisors: Part I (288 Hours)
Subject               Hours                 Description
1.   General                 8        Agricultural Production and Rural Economy
of Tanzania, Rural Development Plans and
Goals, Constraints, Role of Credit, Finan-
cial Institutions in Tanzania, their role
and activities.
2.   TRDB                     8       History and background of rural credit
and TRDB, objectives of TRDB, Policies
and Procedures, Organization.
3.   Rural Production       48        Technical aspects in the Production of
crops, food crops such as maize, wheat,
etc., and cash crops such as coffee,
tobacco, tea and others. Beef and
Dairy development, poultry and other
livestock. Fishing and Small Scale
Industry.
4.   Market                  12       Local and export markets, demand, supply,
prices, marketing channels - cooperatives
and parastatals, crop authorities, their
role and practices.
5.   Agricultural            16       Objectives of extension, methods, organi-
Extension                        zational structure in Tanzania.  Agricul-
tural research, research institutes,
findings, coordination of extension with
research.
6.   Irrigation and          16       Impact on crop production, farming prac-
Water Management                 tice, small scale products and their
financing.
7.   Fertilizer              12       Crop response, soil types, costs and
benefit calculation, optimal input levels
incremental value, farmer response, goals
and targets.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Subject               Hours                 Description
8.   Bookkeeping and        80        Refresher of Commercial Arithmetic,
Accounting                       Interest Calculations, Concepts of Book-
keeping and Accounting, Nature of Business
transactions, Records. The two and three
column cash book, reconciliation, journal
vouchers, ledgers and accounts and
adjustments.
Balance Sheet, Assets and Liabilities,
their classification, Profit and Loss
Statement. Village money transactions,
recommended simple bookkeeping and
record system.
9.   TRDB loan applica-    40         Criteria on Eligibility, types of proj-
tion procedures                  ect, loan application form, supplementary
information, use of information, admin-
trative procedures. Introduction to the
rationale of project appraisal, loan
supervision, follow-up, loan collection
system, recovery of arrears.
10.  Village                 3        Organization and Management, Social and
Political Framework; Cooperative laws
and structure. Production activities,
socio-economic data on villages, methods
of obtaining data, uses of the data for
project work.
11.  Management             16        Principles of organization, work simpli-
fication, goals and targets, leadership,
communication.
It is expected that the course would be practice-oriented and in-
volve the participants in the learning experience to the largest possible
degree. The topics covered in items 1 to 7 would be most appropriate for
lecture type presentation with complementary reading, appropriate field
visits with sufficient time for questions and discussion. The topics covered
in item 8 must be designed and delivered with a large number of case exer-
cises. For the items 9 and 10, the participants should be asked to carry out
the specific tasks as well as in the real environment. Item 11 can accommodate
some amount of role-playing methods.
Basic Program for Credit Supervisors: Part II (288 hours)
This would, in general, cover the same topics as in Part I. The
main changes should be increased depth in the coverage of certain technical
aspects, a greater reliance on practice through exercises, cases and live



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
situations, and the introduction of some new topics especially in the area
of project appraisal. In the description provided below, only the major
differences with Part I are noted.
Sublect               Hours                 Description
1.   General                   8       Objectives of the program.  An overview
of the rural economy.
2.   TRDB                      8       Future prospects, annual plan medium and
long term goals and strategies. Organi-
zational problems.
3.   Rural Production         48       Same topics as before, but in greater
depth, greater attention to problem
sectors.
4.   Markets                   8       Prospects and changes; forecast of
supplies and demands.
5.   Agricultural              8       Review of objectives, methods and organ-
Extersion                         ization of extension.  Discussion of
available extension facilities, problems
and solutions.
6,   7rrigation and
V?,Ler Management       12        Review
7.   Fertilizer               8        Review
8.   Bookkeeping and
Accounting              40        Review
9.   Farm Economy             24       Farm inventory, balance sheet, gross and
net outputs, incomes, return to capital,
return in lieu of wages, farm plan and
budget. Farm model, construction of
different farm models.
10.  Project Appraisal      100        Project examples, design, technical
and Analysis                      feasibility, conditions such as soil,
moisture and water, topography, climate
resultant technical coefficients (24
hours)
Project Management and organization --
implementation, organization, manpower,
training, etc. (16 hours)



-55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
Financial Aspects -- cost estimates,
revenues estimates, capital outlay,
sources of funds, debt and equity,
costs of finance, cash flows into and
out of project, net flows, incremental
flows, discounted flows. Paybacks,
NPV, B/C ratio, IRR    .  (52 hours)
11.  Management             24        Review.
Basic Program for Project Officers:  Part I (288 Hours)
Sublect               Hours                 Description
1.   General                 8        Agricultural Production and Rural Economy
of Tanzania, Rural Development Plans and
Goals, Constraints, Role of Credit, Finan-
cial Institutions in Tanzania, their role
and activities.
2.   TRDB                    8         History and background of rural credit
and TRDB, objectives of TRDB, Policies
and Procedures, Organization.
3.   Rural Production       48         Technical aspects in the Production of
crops, food crops such as maize, wheat,
etc., and cash crops such as coffee,
tobacco, tea and others. Beef and
Dairy development, poultry and other
livestock. Fishing and Small Scale
Industry.
4.   Market                  8         Local and export markets, demand, supply,
prices, marketing channels - cooperatives
and parastatals, crop authorities, their
role and practices.
5.   Agricultural            8         Objectives of extension, methods, organi-
Extension                        zational structure in Tanzania.  Agricul-
tural research, research institutes,
findings, coordination of extension with
research.
6.   Irrigation and         12         Impact on crop production, farming prac-
Water Management                  tice, small scale projects and their
financing.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
Subject               Hours                 Description
7.   Fertilizer               12       Crop response, soil types, costs and
benefit calculation, optimal input levels
incremental value, farmer response, goals
and targets.
8.   Bookkeeping and          48       Interest Calculations, Concepts of Book-
Accounting                        keeping and Accounting, Nature of Busi-
ness transactions, Records.  The two
and three column cash book, reconcilia-
tion, journal vouchers, ledgers and
accounts, trial balance, Final Accounts
and adjustments.
Balance Sheet, Assets and Liabilities,
their classification, Profit and Loss
Statement.
9.   Village money             8       Recommended simple bookkeeping and record
transactions                      system.
10.  TRDB loan applica-      24        Criteria of Eligibility, types of proj-
tion procedures                   ect, loan application form, supplementary
information, use of information, admin-
trative procedures.
11.  Village                 20        Organization and Management, Social and
Political Framework; Cooperative laws
and structure.
Production activities, socio-economic
data on villages, methods of obtaining
data, uses of the data for project work.
11.  Management              16        Principles of organization, work simpli-
fication, goals and targets, leadership,
communication.
13.  Project Formulation    68         Project Conception, Identification,
and Analysis                      Preparation, the rationale and objec-
tives of Appraisal (12 hours) Financial
Costs and Benefits -- product revenues
operating costs, capital costs, working
capital.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
Subject               Hours                 Description
Financial Projections and Analysis --
Income Statements, sources of funds,
funds flow, application of funds, balance
sheet, financial analysis. Time value
of money, discounted flows, payback
period. B/C ratio, NVP and IRR (24
hours).
Technical Design, Commercial Aspects,
Managerial, Organizational, Project
plans and implementation (8 hours).
Preparation of TRDB Appraisal Report and
loan memorandum (4 hours).
Basic Program for Project Officers:  Part II (288 hours)
This would consist in part of a brief review of the material in
Part I, supplemented by new material and topics. Only the major substantive
additional material are described in detail below.
Subject               Hours                 Description
1.   General                  8       Review of Rural Economy
2.   TRDB                     4        Past performance and plans for the
future.
3.   Technical Aspects       40        Special attention should be given to
of Rural Production              problem sectors.
4.   Market                   8       Discussion of marketing aspects, insti-
tutional arrangements and problems.
5.   Agricultural             8        Evaluation of good and bad practices
Extension                        and cases of methods which have been
successful in improving extension
services.
6.   Irrigation and           8        Case study of project.
Water Management
7.   Fertilizer               8       Review, targets, constraints.
8.   Bookkeeping and
Accounting              32       Review.
9.   Village Accounts         8        Examination of existing problems and
their removal.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
Subject               Hours                 Description
10.  TRDB loan               16        Processing, delays, causes, methods
procedures                        for improvement.
11.  Village Information    16         Problems in information collection,
its use and improvements.
12.  Management principles  20         Setting of goals and objectives, plan-
ning, communication, management infor-
mation system, report design, key factor
analysis, human behavior, leadership.
13.  Project Formulation   112         Review of Financial Costs and Benefits,
and Analysis                      Financial Projections and Analysis using
past projects (24).
Economic costs and benefits -- external
effects, shadow wage rate of labor, sha-
dow foreign exchange cost, border price
concept, social factors, ERR, NPW and B/C
ratio in economic (40) Breakeven and sen-
sitivity analysis, project scale and
timing (16).
Technical, Commercial Management, Organi-
zational and other factors (16).
Supervision procedures, reasons of return
of funds, problem solving and feedback;
Information and Reports; major causes of
project problems (16).
Certain basic considerations should be kept in mind in the design
of all programs. They must not be paced too lightly so that the participants
are bored and lose interest. At the same time, they should not be so tightly
scheduled and heavy with information that the participants suffer from an
information overload and do not assimilate very much. This is always a
delicate balance and can only be achieved through practice. Also, practice
and evaluation, and feedback will indicate the right degree of emphasis on
the different topics suggested for the courses. It is not expected that
the Training Division will follow rigidly the outline provided but will use
it as a guide.
In the conduct of the courses, it will be preferable that the train-
ing programs are provided in four sessions of approximately one and half hours
per day. The training participants should not spend part of the day in routine
operational duties as in such combinations the training usually suffers. The
programs should use an adequate mix of teaching methods such as case studies,
exercises, group work, role playing and learning through work experience.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9
The hours indicated have been calculated on the basis during training
the participants will be involved in 8 hours of work per day, including both
organized instructions and individual study.
Village Training by the Mobile Units
Day 1:    General Introduction and Orientation.  The important members of
the village management, namely the Chairman, the Secretary, the Village
Manager, and the Bookkeeper are all expected to attent on the first day.
This should consist of an introduction to TRDB, its policies,
projects financed by it in the area, procedures for application of loans,
eligibility, use of funds, records, repayment.
This part of the seminar could be complemented by arranging
presentations by the regional development officers, the extension officers
and representatives of marketing agencies. These other organizations can
supplement by providing information on their plans for the area and the
services which they provide, so that the villages can make effective demands
for inputs which should be available.
Days 2-7.
Review of Commercial Arithmetic (8 hours)
This part on bookkeeping and accounts would be attended by the Village book-
keeper only. The Village Manager may also attend if he lacks the necessary
background.
Basic calculations, Fractions, Decimals, Percentages, Interest calculation.
Bookkeeping (40 hours)
Concepts and purpose of bookkeeping and accounts, type of documents
and their purpose, filling of documents, the two column cash book and its use,
ledges and types of accounts, trial balance, final accounts balance sheet,
credit transactions, interest calculation, the village bookkeeping system.
Description of the Functions of the Training Division and of Internationally
Recruited Staff
1.        Plan, develop and deliver the necessary in-house programs for TRDB
staff.
2.        Prepare suitable teaching material for use during the training
programs and which can be a guide to the staff in their operations.
3.        Ensure that the TRDB staff used for teaching have adequate know-
ledge of teaching methods.



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 10
4.        Monitor the project appraisals carried out, and the supervision
work. Develop the training to specifically meet and correct observed weak-
nesses.
5.        Monitor and evaluate the in-house training provided and modify
programs and contents based on the evaluation and changing requirements.
6.        Plan and coordinate the entire manpower development plan for TRDB
staff, including training at outside institutions. Monitor the programs
of outside institutions and evaluate their usefulness to TRDB.
7.        Help plan the functions of the Monitoring, Evaluation, Research
and Statistics Division during the project year. Coordinate research plans
with training and feed these inputs into the training.
8.        Develop an information base for TRDB operations, includiang books,
journals, data sources and statistics.
9.        Develop and deliver the necessary training programs to the client
villages. Examine the type of inputs which can provide for parastatal bor-
rowers.
10.       Liaise with institutions providing training to village staff in
accounting and bookkeeping for mutual benefit.
11.       Liaise with teaching and research institutions in Tanzania related
to TRDB's activities and provide them with suitable inputs to increase the
effectiveness of their teaching and research.
Internationally Recruited Training Staff
1.        Chief Training Expert --
Qualifications
-    Masters degree in the fields of Economics, Agricultural Economics
or in Agriculture and Finance. Ph.D is preferred.
-    At least 10 years of work experience in institutions dealing with
agricultural credit operations in developing countries, of which
at least 5 years must be in designing and conducting training pro-
grams of rural finance institutions particularly in Economics and
Financial Appraisal.                                                             q
-    Some work experience in Tanzania or in Africa preferable.
-    Some previous responsibilities in building up a department
essential.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 11
Other Characteristics
-    Must be adaptable
-    Must be able to provide sufficient guidance and develop an adequately
coordinated team in the development department.
-    Candidate must have good knowledge of English.
-    Knowledge of Swahili desirable, otherwise some facility with lan-
guages should be demonstrated.
-    Must be capable of coping with certain ambiguities in roles and
relationships.
Duties and Responsibilities
-    Coordinate the activities of the Trainng and the Research,
Statistics and Evaluations divisions in the Manpower Division
and establish them on a sound footing.
-    Design and deliver the training programs for TRDB staff.
2.   Agricultural Economist
Qualifications
-    Required a Masters degree in Economics or Agricultural Economics,
with sufficient emphasis on Economic evaluation of agricultural
projects, or having further relevant training.
-    Experience of a minimum of 10 years in the preparation of appraisal
reports of agricultural projects, of which at least 5 years exper-
ience must be in developing countries, preferably in Africa. Some
operational experience in project design, implementation, supervi-
sion would be required.
-    Experience of research in rural economics and production in devel-
oping countries would be an asset.
Other Characteristcs
Same as number 2.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 12
Duties and Responsibilities
-    Prepare and develop teaching material, cases, exercises in the
area of project appraisal, including models and guidelines for
different sectoral projects.
-    Assist in the overall training of TRDB staff.
-    Develop research programs at TRDB.
-    Involve other institutions and individuals in the training and
research needs of TRDB.
-    Contribute appropriately to fulfill all the tasks specified for
the Training Division.
-    Prepare the necessary teaching materials for the training programs.
-    Guide the preparation of teaching material and training inputs by
other staff.
-    Prepare a long term manpower development program.
-    Liaise with the educational institutions providing training in
rural development and help to develop their teaching and research
capabilities in the subject area.
-    Contribute fully to fulfill all the requirements specified for
the Training Division.
3.   Agriculture and Farm Management Specialist
Qualifications
-    Required Masters degree in Agriculture.  Further training in
Agriculture, Agricultural Extension or Agricultural Economics
will be an asset.
-    Experience of Agricultural Operations in developing countries
for at least 15 years of which at least 10 must be in Africa.  Of
the above experience, approximately half must be in operations at
the farm level and the balance must be in teaching and developing
materials for agricultural extension staff.
Other Characteristics
-    Same as for number 1, except has no overall coordination role.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 13
Duties and Responsibilities
-    Assemble and develop adequate manuals on the technical aspects
of agricultural projects being financed by TRDB for use by TRDB
staff in project appraisal, supervision and trouble shooting.
-    Liaising with Ministry of Agriculture research and training
centers and organizing flow of information to TRDB.
-    Assist in the training of TRDB staff and help provide knowledge
inputs in agricultural practices.
-    Contribute appropriately towards fulfilling the tasks set for
the Training Division.
p



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
TANZANIA
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports on Tanzania Rural Development Bank
Al   Annual Reports for 1971-77
A2   Agreements and Schedule of Conditions of Building Contract (with
Quantities between Participants of the Office Accommodation Scheme
and Builders (V. M. Chavda Limited).
A3   A Manual of Operational Policies and Procedures - TRDB
A4   The Tanzania Rural Development Bank Act, 1971.
A5   Monthly Income Tax Tables - The United Republic of Tanzania
A6   TRDB - Investigation of Loan Arrears and Control Procedures -
March 1977, Coopers & Lybrand Associates, Limited.
A7   TRDB - Development Credit Agreement No. 217-TA, 287-TA, 382-TA and
508-TA (undef), 580-TA, Reports to June 30, 1977, September 30, 1977,
December 31, 1977 and March 31, 1978.
B.   Selected Reports on the Project
B1   Proposal for a General line of Credit for the Tanzania Rural
Development Bank from the International Development Association -
TRDB - Dar-Es-Salaam.
C.   Selected Working Papers
Cl   Project Costs
Table I -   Trainng - TRDB Staff Training
Table 2 -   Training - Training of TRDB Village Clients
Table 3 -   Management Information Centers
Table 4 -   Systems and Methods; Routine Specifications and
Procedures Manual
Table 5 -   Office Improvements and Transportation
Table 6 -   Monitoring, Evaluation, Research and Statistics
Appendix 1 - Guidelines for Preparation of Cost Estimates and
Contingencies.
C2   TRDB Training, by A. Rath, Consultant.
C3   Rural Credit and Villages, by S. D. Mueller, Consultant.



TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
ORGANIZATION CHART
Board of Directors
Chairman
& Managing Director
internal Auditor                                                                         Corporation
|              t                                g     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secretary
|   General \Aanager  
|  Public Relations
Unit
Administration                     Operations                       Development                         Finance                          Regional
Department                       Department                        Department                        Department                       Directorate
General Services               Crop and Area Credit                Plnig D                          Financial Adminis-                     Loan
Division        l   _I      Programs Division    l             Plannmng Division    l    1       tration Division    l           Collection Division
Legal Division                 Livestock Division             Trainingand Manpower                  Data Processing                  Zonal Managers
Development Division               Collection Division
Personnel Division              Transport & Storage                Organization &                     Loans Division                    egional Offices
Division        l      ffi    Methods Division
Small-Scale Industry            Monitoring, Evaluation              Financial Analysis                   strict Offices
g   Division    l    1     & Research Division                     Division
Fisheries Division           |        Management &       |
Fisheries Division              Information Center
_    Procurement Division                                                                                     B
World Bank -21017



