)ocgirs      CREDIT NUMBER 987 TA
Project Agreement
(TRDB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 987 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    &a     g(  >W            , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter
called TRDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that TRDB agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TRDB, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to TRDB on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TRDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined.) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TRDB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its
operations and affairs with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿-2-
conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, financial
and investment standards and practices, with qualified and exper-
ienced management and in accordance with the TRDB Act and its
Statement of Policy.
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist in:
(i) the carrying out of Part A of the Project, TRDB
shall employ a Chief Training Officer, an Agricul-
tural and Farm Management Specialist and an Agri-
cultural Economist; and
(ii) the carrying out of Part B (i) and (ii) and Part D
of the Project, TRDB shall employ consultants,
whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out Part B (iv) of the
Project:
(i) TRDB shall appoint a Regional Directorate Head
whose qualifications, experience and job descrip-
tion shall be acceptable to the Association;
and
(ii) in addition, by not later than October 31, 1980,
TRDB shall appoint four Zonal Managers and a Loan
Collection Division Head to assist the Regional
Directorate Head in the performance of his duties.
Section 2.03. Without limitation to the provisions of the
Statement of Policy, of the Development Credit Agreement or of
chis Agreement, TRDB shall ensure that, save as the Association
may otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall only be made where the
eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 1 hereto shall be
satisfied.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. (a) TRDB undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by TRDB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, TRDB
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.06. TRDB shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 2.07. In carrying out Part E of the Project:
(a) TRDB shall submit Sub-loans to the Association for
approval or for authorization for withdrawals to be made from
the Credit Account in accordance with and subject to the provi-
sions of the Development Credit Agreement;
(b) (i) when submitting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Association for approval, TRDB shall furnish to
the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with a description of the Sub-borrower
and of the Sub-project to be financed thereunder (including a
description of the expenditures for such Sub-project proposed to
be financed by TRDB and an appraisal of the Sub-project) and the
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan including the
schedule of repayment of the Sub-loan, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request; and (ii) such apprai-
sals will include a calculation of the internal financial rate of
return or of the discounted cost benefit ratio, established in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association;
(c) each request by TRDB for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Sub-borrower and
the Sub-project (including a description of the expenditures
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the


﻿-4-
terms and conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan, including the
schedule of repayment therefor;
(d) except as the Association and TRDB shall otherwise
agree, TRDB shall submit applications for approval of Sub-projects
pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this Section and
requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or
before October 31, 1982;
(e) TRDB undertakes that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby TRDB
shall obtain, by written agreement or other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association
and of TRDB, including: (i) the right to require the Sub-borrower
to carry out and operate the Sub-project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial
and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii)
the right to require that the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan be used exclusively in
the carrying out of the Sub-project; (iii) the right of the
Association and of TRDB to inspect the goods and the farms
and construction sites included in the Sub-project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to
obtain all such information as the Association or TRDB shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the adminis-
tration, operations and financial condition of the Sub-borrower;
and (v) the right of TRDB to suspend or terminate the right of the
Sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon
failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its
agreement with TRDB; and
(f) TRDB shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Sub-borrower in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the Association and of TRDB; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) TRDB: (i) shall maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the


﻿-5-
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association within three months of the end of each
quarter a progress report in respect of the carrying out of
the Project; and (iv) shall furnish to the Association at regular
intervals all such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning tim Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds and, in relation to Part E of the Project, concerning
the Sub-loans.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TRDB and the
Association, TRDB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from it, the performance by TRDB and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(c) TRDB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of TRDB and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.09. TRDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, TRDB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.10. (a) TRDB shall at the request of the Associ-
ation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) TRDB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by TRDB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 2.11. Except as the Association and TRDB shall
otherwise agree, TRDB: (i) shall not sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets, except in
the ordinary course of business; and (ii) shall take all action
necessary to maintain its corporate existence and .right to carry
on operations and to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
Section 2.12. TRDB shall duly perform all its obligations in
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at
the disposal of TRDB by the Borrower or its agencies or others for
relending, investment or management.
Section 2.13. TRDB shall not create or acquire or take over a
subsidiary or any other entity, if such creation, acquisition or
taking over would adversely affect the conduct of TRDB's financial
condition or the efficiency of TRDB's management and personnel or
the carrying out of the Project.
Section 2.14. TRDB shall cause each of its Subsidiaries (if
any) to observe and perform the obligations of TRDB under this
Agreement to the extent to which the same may be made applicable
thereto as though such obligations were binding upon each of such
Subsidiaries.
Section 2.15. TRDB shall not amend its Statement of Policy
in any manner which may materially and adversely affect the
obligations or the financial condition of TRDB.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TRDB
Section 3.01. TRDB shall take out and maintain with responsi-
ble insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. Within not more than two weeks prior to the
date of commencement of each crop marketing season, TRDB shall
notify each crop marketing authority responsible for the purchase
of agricultural produce from borrowers from TRDB of the aggre-
gate amount of principal, interest and other charges due by each


﻿-7-
such borrower as at such date in   respect of credit provided by
TRDB for seasonal inputs for such produce.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower, the Association and
TRDB may otherwise agree, TRDB shall charge the interest rates set
forth in Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TRDB shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures described in Categories (2) (c), (4)
and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure.
(b) TRDB shall retain, until one year after the Closing
Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which with-
drawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. (a) TRDB shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements, including the separate accounts
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) hereof) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn


﻿-8-
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expendi-
ture have been used for the purpose for which they were provided;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of TRDB and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
(b) In addition, TRDB shall furnish to the Association
within three months of the end of each quarter its unaudited
financial statements, together with the quarterly progress report
referred to in Section 2.08 (a) (iii) of this Agreement.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, TRDB shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.04 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
TRDB's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such reasonable
action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring such ratio
within such limit.
Section 4.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the
Association and TRDB, TRDB shall not incur or permit any subsi-
diary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the
ratio of the consolidated debt of TRDB and all its subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding to the consolidated capital and
surplus of TRDB and all its subsidiaries would exceed 60:40. For
the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by TRDB or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is origi-
nally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement on the date and to the extent the amount of
the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been
entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt is
outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Tanzanian Shillings debt payable in
foreign currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing
lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the


﻿-9-
time of such valuation, obtainable by TRDB for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(d) "consolidated debt of TRDB and all its subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of TRDB and all its subsidiaries,
excluding any debt owed by TRDB to any subsidiary or by any
subsidiary to TRDB or to any other subsidiary; and
(e) "consolidated capital and surplus of TRDB and all its
subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves (including grants received) of
TRDB and all its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such
amounts as shall represent equity interests of TRDB in any subsi-
diary or of any subsidiary in TRDB or any other subsidiary.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of TRDB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
TRDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For TRDB:
Tanzania Rural Development Bank
P.O. Box 268
Dar-es-Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
MTAJI
Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TRDB may be taken or executed by
the General Manager or such other person or persons as the Board
of Directors shall designate in writing, and TRDB shall furnish to


﻿- 11 -
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                 1S I       R
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANZANIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-loans
under Part E of the Project
1.   (a) The Sub-borrower shall be carrying on farming or other
rural operations in regions, not exceeding five regions
in the aggregate, to be selected by TRDB in consultation
with the Association:
(i) in respect of each of which TRDB has determined to
increase materially the amount of its agricultural
credit during its fiscal years 1980/81, 1981/82 and
1982/83, and
(ii) where, prior to the date of such selection, there
is an established and substantial unsatisfied
demand for agricultural credit.
(b) The Sub-borrower shall not be eligible for a Sub-loan
in respect of any Sub-project to the extent to which
it is eligible for funds in respect of that Sub-project
under any other rural credit scheme operated by or on
behalf of the Borrower.
(c) The Sub-borrower shall have irrevocably agreed to the
deduction from the proceeds of sale of its produce by
the crop authority of the amounts due to TRDB, as
referred to in Section 4.04 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
(d) The Sub-borrower shall have agreed to contribute out
of its own resources the balance of the total costs of
the Sub-project not financed by the Sub-loan.
(e) The Sub-borrower shall satisfy appropriate lending
criteria as to management, maintenance of books and
accounts, loan repayment record and financial credit-
worthiness.
2.   (a) A Sub-loan for seasonal inputs shall not be made in
relation to any crop for which growing and marketing
procedures have not been established in the region of
the Sub-borrower.


﻿- 13 -
(b) The Sub-loan shall not be for an amount exceeding 75%
of the estimated total costs of the Sub-project.
(c) The Sub-loan shall make provision for disbursement
directly to suppliers for goods or services required
for the Sub-project and shall exclude cash reimburse-
ment of the Sub-borrower.
(d) A Sub-loan for seasonal inputs shall not be made in any
fiscal year of TRDB unless the number of credit agree-
ments for seasonal inputs in a selected region entered
into by TRDB in that fiscal year shall exceed the
aggregate number of credit agreements for seasonal
inputs in such region entered into by TRDB in the
immediately preceding fiscal year.
3.   The Sub-project appraisal referred to in Section 2.07 (b)
(ii) of the Project Agreement shall show an internal financial
rate of return of not less than 10% or a cost benefit ratio
discounted at 10% of not less than 1.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, TRDB shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. TRDB shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to TRDB of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tanzania may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 15 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in.
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tanzania if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of TRDB and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Tanzania equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Tanzania.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
.of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs duties and
taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further
comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if
not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 16 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   (a)   Contracts for: (1) the purchase of furniture, office
equipment and computer materials; and (2) the construction of
housing shall be awarded pursuant to competitive bidding adver-
tised locally.
(b) Items of furniture, office equipment and computer
materials shall, so far as possible, be grouped together in such
contracts for the purpose of bulk procurement.
2.   Contracts for computers shall be awarded in such manner as
TRDB and the Association may agree, in the light of the recommen-
dation relating thereto of the consultants referred to in Section
2.02 (a) (ii) of the Project Agreement.
3.   Procurement by TRDB in respect of Part E of the Project
shall be carried out in accordance with its normal procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, TRDB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, TRDB
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would


﻿- 17 -
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform TRDB and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, TRDB shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform TRDB and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, TRDB shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform TRDB and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of          ,
1 98 W.A
FOR SECRETARY


