Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 24444
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA -26980)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 41.2 (US$60.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
6/30/2002
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 06/21/2002)
Currency Unit = Zambia kwacha
At appraisal 700 kwacha = US$ I
US$ I = 4,500 kwacha at completion
FISCAL YEAR
January I  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACF           ASIP Consultative Forum
ACP           Agricultural Conmmercialization Program
ADSP          Agricultural Development Support Program
ASIP          Agricultural Sector Investment Program
CDT           Cotton Development Trust
DACO          District Agricultural Coordination Office (Officer)
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
FMU           Financial Management Unit
GART          Golden Valley Agricultural Research Branch
HIPC          Highly Indebted Poor Country's Initiative
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
LASDP Letter of Agriculture Sector Development Policy
MAC           Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
MAFF          Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Fisheries
NORAD         Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA          Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency.
SCRB          Soils and Crop Research Branch
RIF           Rural Investment Fund
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager/Director:  Karen Brooks
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Tekola Dejene



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    I
3. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of Quality at Entry        2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 15
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                          18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               32
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                 33
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                               48






Prolect ID: P003218                                       Project Name: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Teant Leader. Tekola Dejene                               TL Unit: AFTRI
ICR Tvpe: Intensvne Learning Model (ILAI) ol/ICR         Report Date. dline 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Namne: AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT                L/CITF Number: IDA-26980
PROGRAM
Couintill/Department ZAMBIA                                              Region. Africa Regional Office
Sector/sl.bsector: AA - Agriculture Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.   07/02/1986                             Eflective.  12/22/1995        12/22/1995
Appraosial  06/30/1994                                MTR: 06/25/1998           06/25/1998
Approval:  03/30/1995                              Clomingg  12/31/1999         12/31/2001
Borrower/lntplenmentiig Agenci':  REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND
COOPERATIVES
Othe r Partners  IDA, GTZ, EU, AFDB, IFAD, NORAD, FINNIDA, Dutch AID,UNDP, JICA,
SIDA, Belgium, USAID
STAFF                CLirrent                                  At Appraisal
Vice President.      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward Jaycox
Comntm-i' Manager:   Yaw Ansu                                  Phillis Pomerantz
Sector Manager:      Karen Mcconnell Brooks                    Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:  Tekola Dejene                             Nwanze Okidegbe
ICR Prinmary A uthor:  Charles Bevan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outf }(le'. U
Sustainahiliti' L
Instittltional Development Impact: M
Bank Perlbrinance: S
Borrower Performnance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Qualifr at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any TDIe. Yes
The outcome rating is for the original objectives, which did not change during program implementation.
The other ratings are for the reoriented program, following midterrn review.
QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment was carried out in 2000; supervision was rated satisfactory.



The project was at risk in 1996, 1997 and 1998.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3 1 Original Ohjective.
The overall objective of the Agricultural Sector Investrnent Program (ASIP) as originally formulated was
to support the medium and long-term goals of the government for agriculture: improving household food
security, promoting better use of natural resources, generating incomes and employment, and increasing
export earnings and contributing to the balance of payments. The program would achieve these objectives
through a sectorwide approach based on the principles of (a) providing national coverage, (b) implementing
the program within the institutional framework of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MAC), (c)
pooling donor funds and channeling them in support of government's priorities through MAC, (d)
developing common implementation arrangements amnong donors, (e) introducing a flexible work program
by annually conducting reviews and carrying out strategic planning, (f) decentralizing funds and decision
making authority to the lowest level of government capable of handling the responsibility, and (g)
promoting participation of beneficiaries. At the time the program was prepared, various donors were
supporting over 180 freestanding projects in support of agriculture in Zambia, and overlap and duplication
were commnon. The ASIP aimed to bring these donor-assisted projects under one program. IDA was to be
a donor of last resort, making up shortfalls in funding from other donors or from the government.
While the overall objective is reasonable for a long-term program expected to last 15 to 20 years, it was too
broad, ambitious, and complex for a four-year program. More narrowly specified objectives would have
enabled the Bank and government teams to both monitor and evaluate progress in implementing the
program and in achieving development impact. The sectorwide approach of achieving the objective was
also inappropriate, given Zambia's unsupportive macroeconomic and institutional context of the time, a
precondition for the success of sectorwide approaches. Throughout the 1990s, and continuing to the
present Zambia has experienced persistent macroeconomic instability. Moreover, the implementing agency,
MAC, lacked the capacity to effectively implement the 17 subprograms that comprised this comprehensive
ASIP. Finally, only a few donors active in Zambia were committed to the approach.
3.2 Revised Objective
Following the midterm review, it was felt that objectives should be defined for the IDA-supported activities
independently of those specified for the program as a whole. The objectives for the IDA-supported
activities were to (a) support the increased the efficiency and productivity of dominant crops by developing
and disseminating improved technologies; (b) establish an institutional structure designed to provide
cost-effective agricultural services; (c) establish a decentralized implementation mechanism and
participatory approaches that empower communities and their representatives; (d) assist in institutional
development including training, policy formulation, and monitoring and evaluation; and (e) increase farm
incomes and export earnings. Additional objectives were to support government's efforts to privatize
agricultural enterprises, and to promote development of agribusiness enterprises and farmers' organizations.
The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was not amended to reflect the changes in objectives because
the overall development objectives remained the same: to improve household food security, promote better
use of natural resources, generate incomes and employment, and increase export earnings and contribute to
the balance of payments. The DCA was amended to reflect changes in the allocation of proceeds of the
Credit.
3.3 Original Component.s
-2 -



The program comprised four broad components:
(1)    Policy and institutional improvements (US$28.4 million at appraisal, of which US$11.5 million
was to come from IDA). This included policy and institutional reforms in marketing and standards
(eliminating subsidies to marketing parastatals), food security, rural finance, land use and tenure, livestock,
and reform of agricultural institutions.
(2)    Public investment (US$182.7 million, of which US$34.0 million was from IDA) to complement
and support policy and institutional improvements. Investments were to be made in agricultural research,
extension and information, livestock production and health services, fisheries development for smallholders,
farm power and mechanization, rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation facilities, and agricultural training.
The component provided support for transport, operating costs, staff training, replacement of equipment
and minor civil works.
(3)    Private sector development (US$85.6 million, none from IDA). This comprised multiplication
and distribution of seeds for smallholders, development of viable rural financial institutions, and new
product development to encourage private firms to diversify into nontraditional exports.
(4)    Pilot investment schemes (US$53.3 million, of which US$14.5 million was to come from IDA).
This included support to establish a rural investment fund to support small-scale capital investments in
rural communities on a matching grant basis, and support for the privatization of state farms.
The program was to be executed over four years. Overall responsibility for implementing the program
rested with MAC. Provincial and district level government entities were to be delegated increasing
responsibility for implementing activities within their regions as their capacity grew. Private sector
agencies were to handle the program's private sector development component. Participating banks were to
handle the rural finance component. The agricultural steering committee was to be responsible for
coordinating the implementing the various activities of the program and formulating sector policies. MAC
was to be restructured and new institutional arrangements put into place. The financial management and
procurement systems were to be strengthened through implementation of recommendations of a Price
Waterhouse report completed in September 1994. A number of multilateral donors, notably Intemational
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), United Nations Development Program (UNDP), and IDA
agreed to incorporate their ongoing and new projects into the ASIP framework from the start.
Although the components and subcomponents were appropriate for achieving the long-term objectives of
the program, their number and complexity were beyond the capacity of the implementing agency to handle.
It was also unrealistic to expect that the implementing agency could be restructured and new institutional
arrangements established in a short time, while at the same time implementing the activities of the program.
3.4 Revised Componenits
Following the midterm review conducted in June 1998, the Bank task team decided that IDA would no
longer serve as the donor of last resort, but would instead focus on a limited number of core activities.
While the program's components and 17 subprograms remained the same, IDA would focus on:
(1)    Agricultural services (US$34 million from IDA, 61 percent of total base cost). This included
support for agricultural research and extension in districts not supported by other donors, including
linkages between research and extension, technology generation in crops, soil management, animal
-3 -



husbandry and health, farm management (including conservation farming), and the like.
(2)    Rural investment fund (US$ 10 million, 18 percent of total base cost). This included support to
expand the program started under the ASIP to cover more farmer groups.
(3)    Capacity building (US$11.5 million, 19 percent of total base cost). This comprised support for
analysis of sector performance, monitoring and evaluation, and selected initiatives to upgrade skills of the
ministry, especially at the provincial and district levels.
In addition, IDA agreed to, in collaboration with other donors, assist with the implementation of pilot rural
finance schemes that MAC and the Bank jointly identified and prepared. However, action was not taken on
the rural finance pilots, since the government was more interested on setting up a major agricultural credit
institutions rather than pilot schemes.
Fundamental changes in the management and implementation of the program were introduced. These
entailed limiting the role of MAC to facilitation and regulation only, transferring planning and
implementation responsibilities to districts and communities, implementing a financial management system
that ensured the flow of funds to districts and agreed cost centers was timely, and creating a process that
enabled districts to access technical support from provincial or head offices of government entities. Donors
opted to support a loosely-defined coordination mechanism and to continue to implement their projects
based on annual or multi-year agreements with the government. An ASIP consultative forum (ACF) was
created to facilitate policy discussions among stakeholders.
3.5 QuahtYn it Entri'.
Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory. Many important actions were taken to ensure quality at entry.
For example, objectives of the program were closely aligned with the Bank's country assistance strategy
that was reviewed by the Board on March 10, 1994, and with the government's development priorities. The
program was designed to address problems with the management of development programs in Zambia that
were highlighted in a country portfolio performance review undertaken in 1994. These problems included a
lack of government ownership of donor-assisted projects, overcentralization of program management, and a
proliferation of autonomous program management units that undermined rather than supported creation of
government capacity. Care was taken to actively involve all major stakeholders in preparing the program.
Government's commitment to policy and institutional reforms was expressed through its issuance of its
Letter of Sector Development Policy and seemed secure. Joint stakeholder and government annual planning
and review exercises were introduced to ensure flexibility in the implementation of the program.
Unfortunately, the design and preparation of the program involved significant weaknesses that should have
been dealt with prior to entry. First, the program designers should have anticipated and prepared for the
difficulties of starting implementation before the new institutional arrangements were in place. Second, the
task team should have done more to assess the capacity of the implementing agencies and of their
provincial and district office and to develop programs to build capacity where it was lacking. They also
should have carried out a thorough institutional assessment to define the roles of the various actors. Third,
the Bank task team should have recognized major risks and specified measures to mitigate them. For
example, the task team should have noted the risk to implementation posed by a much slower than expected
restructuring of MAC and establishment of sound financial management and procurement systems, and
developed measures to address these risks. Fourth, given that coordination of donor support is a key
element of the sectorwide approach, the task team should have reached a consensus with major donors on
the appropriateness of the sectorwide approach for Zambia before launching the program. Instead, the
- 4 -



program went forward without the support of many major donors. Fifth, modalities for decentralizing
implementation should have been defined and agreed with the government prior to program launch, rather
than being left to be worked out during the initial months of the program. Sixth, the task team should have
specified priorities among the 17 subprograms, so that support could be channeled to them in the event of
overall funding shortfalls. The Bank did not carry out a QAG assessment at entry.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 OiItconwe/aCchiei,el7entol/ oblec'ti' P.
Achievement of the broad objectives of the ASIP is generally unsatisfactory. Most of its objectives were
not met. The food production index fell from 130 in 1995 (1981 =100) to 128 in 2001. Agricultural gross
domestic product barely rose from 395 billion kwacha in 1995 to 419 billion kwacha in 2001. During this
period, agricultural production fluctuated significantly around a stagnant mean. Agricultural productivity
continued its long-term decline. The yields per hectare of maize fell slightly during the years of the
program; it was 1.6 tons per hectare in 1995 compared with 1.5 tons in 2001. Moreover, net agricultural
incomes fell from 70,000 kwacha in 1995 to 62,000 kwacha in 2001. However, the objective of increasing
export earnings from agriculture were met. Agricultural exports increased dramatically, particularly of
nontraditional exports such as horticulture and floriculture. The total value of agricultural exports rose
from US$55 million in 1995 to US$160.3 million in 1998, although it declined to US$125 million in 2001.
Moreover, while agriculture did not perform well, the mining, manufacturing, and services sectors of
Zambia's economy performed even worse. During 1995-2001, the contribution of agriculture to gross
domestic product rose from about 16 percent to 22 percent.
The narrower objectives specified at the midterm review for the IDA-supported activities have been
substantially met. Although time is too short for increases in the productivity of dominant crops (maize,
cotton, sorghum, and others) to be evident, the research system has developed and released 21 new varieties
of seeds and introduced farm management practices that more and more farmers are adopting (see annex
I a). A new governance structure to provide cost-effective agricultural services has been created. The
extension system has been completely transformed, and service providers are now accountable to farmers
and local government rather than to the central ministry. The research system is being reformed along lines
recommended in a study of the system jointly carried out by the government and the International Services
for National Agriculture Research. The reforms are expected to make the extension and research systems
more responsive and accountable to farmers, agribusiness, and other users of research outputs, and more
effective overall. A decentralized implementation mechanism, and participatory approaches that empower
communities and their representatives has been established. The farmer groups and communities have been
empowered with the transfer of resources directly to their accounts to allow them to carry out their projects
and community action plans. District agricultural committees have been created and made responsible for
overseeing the district agricultural activities. The hiring of qualified staff has strengthened the district
agricultural coordination offices (DACO). The flow of funds to districts and communities has also been
significantly improved. Institutions have been strengthened through provision of training and the
establishment of systems of monitoring and evaluation. Budgets agreed at the beginning of the year for
each district are now being replenished immediately when the districts account for their expenditures.
4.2 Ottptuts by, components:
Component 1: Agricultural services (US$32.6 million, 54 percent of total base cost)
The outputs of this component, which consist of extension and research, are satisfactory. Outputs of the
extension subcomponent are marginally satisfactory. Extension services have been completely reformed
5 -



under the project. The participatory extension approach has been introduced in 27 (of 73 districts) and
four provinces, replacing the travel and visit system. Using this approach, field extension agents help
groups of farmers analyze their problems and seek self-help solutions wherever possible. An average of
175,000 farmers were adopting one or more technologies introduced through the extension system,
(although the target was 250,000 farmers per year). In addition, a steadily increasing number of field
demonstrations were held, with 1,050 being conducted in the 2001, compared with 221 in 1996. According
to surveys, about three-quarters of farmers adopt the improved technologies within a year of exposure.
Farmers have diversified away from maize, most likely in response to the decline in subsidies for maize
production and marketing and in response to the advice and training provided by extension agents on
alternative cops. Maize accounted for 70 percent of cultivated area in the 1980s; this has now declined to
52 percent. Farmers are increasingly cultivating crops such as cassava, cotton, groundnuts, sweet potato,
and tobacco, rather than millet, sorghum, beans and sunflowers.
The seed multiplication and distribution scheme under the extension subcomponent is rated highly
satisfactory. The scheme is now established as a commercial and farmer-based seeds system throughout
Zambia. The Bank with various donors and nongovernmental organizations developed the capacity of
about 43,000 small-scale farmers in rural areas to produce and market seeds of improved varieties of
mainly the traditional staple food crops (maize, sorghum, pearl and finger millet, paddy rice, cassava and
sweet potatoes) and legumes (groundnuts and cowpeas). This has been strengthened by the decentralization
of seed quality control services and the formulation of Quality Declared Seed class standards that regulate
seed production among smallholder farmers. Every year, smallholder seed farmers produce about 1,500
tons of seeds, and sufficient planting materials to cultivate 3,000 hectares of cassava and sweet potatoes.
The rural seed initiatives account for 13 percent of the country's seed production; they provide improved
seeds to about 54,000 farmers every year.
Seed growing has become a major source of income for smallholders that produce seeds. The profits
obtained are strengthening entrepreneurship and hence the sustainability of the seed provision system. The
number of seed testing laboratories has increased from I to 5 with the licensing of private laboratories and
establishment of satellite seed testing laboratories. The number of licensed seed inspectors was 50 in 2001
against zero in 1996. The decentralization and licensing of seed quality control services has led to an
improvement in efficiency and timeliness in the provision of seed quality control services to the seed
industry. This supports the development of the seed industry. The institutional arrangement in place for
the coordination of rural seed multiplication programs is harmonizing approaches, avoiding duplication of
resources, and broadening coverage of the initiatives. This has led to an increased appreciation of the
initiatives, which have increased, from four in 1996 to 15 in 2001.
The soil fertility initiative and conservation farming activity under extension is also rated satisfactory.
These practices allow farmers to preserve soil fertility without using chemical fertilizers, which with the
end of subsidies have become too expensive for many farmers to buy. More than 1,200 field extension
workers have been trained in the technologies, and they, in turn, have trained thousands of smallholder
farmers. It is estimated that the total number of farmers (mainly small-scale) practicing the techniques is
over 90,000. In some agroecological regions of the country, maize yields rose from 90 kilograms per
hectare to nearly 150 kilograms per hectare. The number of farmers trained in on-farm seed multiplication
has risen from about 4,000 in 1996 to about 11,000 in 2001, with about 70 percent of those participating
eventually adopting the improved seeds. Unfortunately prolonged and severe droughts have drastically
reduced farm output during 2000 and 2001, affecting thousands of farm families.
The outputs of the research subcomponent are also satisfactory. The Soils and Crops Research Branch has
released improved seeds and planting materials for many important crops, including maize, sorghum,
-6 -



millets, groundnuts, beans, cowpeas, wheat, sunflower, cassava, and sweet potato. Improved varieties are
given to ZAMSEED for multiplication and sale to farmers. The research system also produced and
introduced to farmers many new technologies. These include the low-cost, effective irrigation technologies
like treadle pumps and artisan drip and bucket irrigation systems, the Magoye Ripper for conservation
tillage, legume inoculants, and agroforestry species to improve soil fertility.
Public-private sector partnerships in research have been successfully established by converting public
research organizations into trusts that are managed by independent boards accountable to major
stakeholders. The Golden Valley Agricultural Research Trust is one of two trusts that has done well. This
trust derives its income from its commercial farming operations (50 percent), contract research (10
percent), donor support (35 percent), and government contribution (5 percent). Commercial farm
operations perform a dual function, generating income from sale of output and disseminating knowledge of
successful farming practice through demonstrations. The Cotton Development Trust was established in
1999 and is at a formative stage. It expects to obtain 40-60 percent of its funding from a levy on cotton
delivered to ginneries. It is envisaged that the remainder of its funding needs will come from contract
research (25 percent), and from contributions of donors and the govemment (15 percent). The full
establishment of the trust awaits the passing of a cotton act, which will legalize the collection of the levy
from ginners. The board of trustees of the Cotton Development Trust represents all the principal
stakeholders in the cotton industry. The board has already agreed in principle on the collection of a levy for
funding research.
Component 2: Rural investment fund (US$17.1 million - 29 percent of total base cost)
Outputs of the rural investment fund have been satisfactory. Despite initial problems with the design and
implementation of the fund, its achievements have been impressive. The fund has financed economic and
social infrastructure to relieve both production and marketing constraints of farmers. Between 1996 and
December 2001 the fund financed nearly 1,800 subprojects (dams, warehouses, boreholes, bridges, roads,
dip tanks, poultry operations, pig farms, fish farms, and the like) in every district of Zambia at a total cost
of US$17.0 million. The geographical distribution of projects reflects the fund's objective to target poverty
reduction, with subprojects per district ranging from 56 in the Copperbelt to 357 in the drought-prone
Southem province and 377 in the underdeveloped Northern province. The fund has had a wide-ranging
impact in generating incomes directly and indirectly for farmers, workers, and entrepreneurs.
According to a beneficiary assessment of the rural investment fund (annex 8.1 and 8.2), farmers are very
enthusiastic about and interested in the program. Some of the subprojects have significantly increased
income, enhanced household food security, and improved the overall well-being of the rural population.
For example, by reducing farmers' dependency on uncertain rainfall in dry Zambia, the irrigation and
fishponds projects have contributed to both an increase in income and a reduction in the uncertainty of
income. An important share of project benefits has accrued to women. Boreholes and wells were the
largest category of subprojects under the program accounting for 36 percent of subprojects and 30 percent
of disbursements. These save beneficiary women considerable time and improve the quality of their lives.
The improved household nutrition and income from the irrigation facilities and fishponds have also
addressed the concems of women. Underutilization of some of the subprojects, such as sheds and dip
tanks, is the main weakness of the rural investment fund that will need to be addressed in future operations.
The weakness arises from poor planning, but also from a culture of dependency in which farmers expect
the govemment to cover the working capital requirement of investments provided on a grant basis. In
addition to providing infrastructure, by delegating responsibility for subproject development and
management to local government and communities, the rural investment fund has created capacity at local
levels that can be used to undertake future development projects. This is an intangible, but perhaps the
- 7 -



most important, benefit of the rural investment fund program.
Component 3: Capacity building (US$3.9 million - 7.2 percent of total base cost)
The output of the capacity building component of the reoriented program was satisfactory. In the area of
policy and planning, the program established management information systems capable of tracking
expenditures and physical progress of program components and subcomponents by implementing units of
MAC, such as the Soils and Crops Research Branch, the Seed Control and Certification Institute, Animal
Production, Fisheries and Extension. Significant improvements in reporting progress on implementation of
work programs has resulted. Progress was also made in decentralizing formulation and implementation of
the annual work plans and budgets. However, management information systems that bring together
information produced by different units were not developed during the life of the program, although this
was one of its objectives. To improve monitoring of crop, livestock and fisheries production, the program
supported five post harvest surveys during 1996-2001 and three crop forecasting surveys. Capacity within
the government's central statistics office to carry out surveys and analyze their data was permanently
strengthened as a result. The MAC publishes annually a bulletin of agricultural statistics on the basis of
the survey data. Data from the post harvest and crop forecasting surveys also provide vital information for
the analyses of sector performance (conducted in 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000) and preparation of national
accounts.
This component supported numerous studies and strategic planning exercises. For example, through this
component:
* A critical review of the role and function of the Ministry of Agricultural Cooperatives (MAC, formerly
MAFF) was completed. This serves as a guide for donor support to the sector.
*   An agriculture sector public expenditure review was conducted. This provided critical information to
decision makers on the size and composition (by subsectors and expenditure categories) of spending in
the sector, its efficiency in producing results, and quality of the accounting and monitoring systems.
Over 15 studies covering major subsectors and important sector themes were completed. These are
providing important background infornation for the preparation of the successor program to the ASIP.
* The draft national agriculture policy, now awaiting approval of the new government, was prepared.
* The agriculture commercialization program was prepared and is now the main government document
providing direction for sector development.
Financial management improved once procedures recommended at the midterm review were
implemented. Records and accounts were maintained in accordance with internationally accepted
accounting practices and principles as prescribed in the Credit covenants and government financial
regulations. Audited annual financial accounts for IDA and other donor programs funded through
MAC were completed within nine months of the end of the financial year, as stipulated in the
DCA. This was a big improvement over performance prior to the midterm review, when audits
were delayed due to inadequate capacity within central and district financial management units. In
addition, the capacity of the procurement and supply unit was significantly strengthened following
the midterm review through technical assistance provided by the Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency. The strengthened capacity of the financial management and
procurement and supply units helped in the marked improvement in disbursements of IDA funds
under the program from just 7 percent in 1998 at the time of the midterm review to 97 percent in
December 2001 at Credit closing.
-8 -



4.3 Net Present Valite/Economic rate ofretlrn.:
At appraisal, an econometric analysis was undertaken based on an assessment of the annual growth on
agricultural GDP that would need to take place to justify the level of ASIP investments. This ICR does not
attempt to repeat the exercise because the program was not implemented as originally designed and time to
closing was too short to ascertain development impact. Moreover, the benefits from the newly refocused
interventions are difficult to quantify by their nature. Therefore, the ICR has opted for a more general
discussion of the impact of the program on the sector and on beneficiary farner groups.
There has been an apparent shift in crop production at the national level from maize to other crops.
According to the survey data, the maize cultivation area decreased by about 22 percent between
1990-2000. Soybean and sunflower cultivation areas have also decreased significantly. These crops have
been substituted by an increase in cotton (65 percent) groundnuts (76 percent), cassava (65 percent) and
potatoes (54 percent) during the same period. The data suggests that Zambian farmers have diversified
considerably in the past decade, reducing the maize cultivation area from 70 percent to 55 percent, most
probably in response to the decline in fertilizer subsidies.
Agricultural exports also increased dramatically in the last ten years. In 1990, agricultural exports
accounted for less than 2 percent of total export value and in 1996 and 2000 increased to 10 percent and 20
percent, respectively. Of the total nontraditional exports, the share of agriculture exports was 37 percent in
1996 and 55 percent in 2000. The sector also provides considerable forward and backward linkages.
Most of the manufacturing output, which accounts for 10- 12 percent of the GDP and about 75 percent of
the manufacturing sector output. Almost the same percentage of employmnent is generated from
agro-industries (food, beverages, tobacco, textiles, leather, and the like).
An assessment of the economic impact of other related activities, such as, extension, research, training and
some of the fund interventions, can only be qualitative or, at best, theoretical extrapolations of very limited
data. The Beneficiary Assessment (BA) of the fund indicates that farmers and community members greatly
value the subprojects, and are willing to pay 25 percent of the subproject costs for their realization. The
irrigation subprojects have generated increased income. According to the midterm review carried out in
1998, the irrigation projects for coffee farmers generated incremental farm incomes of about US$500 per
hectare, achieving rates of return of 15 to 20 percent on investments. It is estimated that current retums
from irrigated coffee and vegetables are about the same or higher. The dams and storage sheds have had
mixed effects so far, but they have potential for greater benefits once plans for full use of the facility are
developed and implemented.
4.4 Financial r ate * 'retulrn.
The staff appraisal report did not include a financial analysis of the project. A financial analysis was not
undertaken for the Implementation Completion Report.
4.5 Instituttional development Inmpact.
Institutional development is rated satisfactory. After the midterm review, the Bank worked closely with
MAC (MAFF became MAC in 2000, following its restructuring) to complete the restructuring process that
started before the Credit became effective with a view to speed up the implementation of the IDA-supported
activities. New technical staff were selected on a competitive basis to fill positions created within the
restructured MAC. The quality of new staff was high and management of district level operations
significantly improved. Moreover, district agricultural coordination offices were created that were
-9-



technically, administratively, and financially unified and integrated. Before the reorganization, district staff
were accountable to departments at headquarters, making it virtually impossible for the DACOs to have a
say on issues that may well affect district operations. In the new MAC, the district agricultural
coordination offices are responsible for all agricultural activities of their districts and staff in the district
report to them. Funds comes directly to the district and are distributed among priority activities that have
been agreed with the staff of the ministry and with district agricultural committees. Provincial offices are
no longer responsible for implementation. Their role is now to coordinate district activities, to monitor and
evaluate project implementation and impact, and to provide technical backstopping to district offices that
request assistance. MAC's central office is responsible for reviewing annual plans and budgets, monitoring
implementation, and assisting provincial and district offices resolve problems.
The district agricultural committees, established as part of the institutional reforms, started playing a key
role in the implementation at the local level of the ASIP's activities. These committees are made up of
district level representatives of civil society and the public sector. They are responsible for overseeing the
district's agricultural activities and are empowered to make critical decisions on allocation of resources
approve subprojects and agricultural activities in the districts. The committees contributed to the
successful operation of the rural investment fund by appraising, approving, and monitoring the
implementation of subprojects. The participatory extension approach should substantially strengthen
extension services.
The rural investment fund has been instrumental creating capacity of local government entities and farmer
organizations to undertake development projects. The fund has tested, refined, and developed an effective
mechanism for delivering funds to communities to invest in small-scale infrastructure projects.
The agricultural consultative forum is another institutional innovation that evolved from the midterm
review. This forum brings together all stakeholders (nongovernmental organizations, private sector actors,
donors, and representatives of farmers and the government) to discuss and reach consensus on national
agricultural policy issues with a view to advising policy makers and take actions as needed.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5 1 Factors outtside the (ontlrol o/ governmenwt oi- iniplem,ew'ting agencl
The influence of factors outside of the government's control on program outputs has been substantial.
Droughts reduced crop output in 1996, floods diminished production in 1998, and droughts and floods
severely cut output in 2001. Cattle diseases decimated Zambia's cattle population starting the early 1 990s.
Another serious problem affecting the performance of the program, and of agriculture in general, is
HIV/AIDS. Zambia has arnong the world's highest prevalence of HIV/AIDS, with well over 20 percent of
the population ages 15 to 49 infected with the virus. Many of MAC's trained staff have fallen ill or died,
and of those that remain healthy many have had to take time off from work to care for ill family members
or attend funerals. Farmers, the beneficiaries of the program, have been similarly affected by HIV/AIDS.
Finally, low international prices of copper, the country's main export, reduced govemment revenues
starting in the late 1990s, affecting its ability to finance its development programs, including ASIP.
5.2 Factors generall/v s,tlect to goveLrnment o(ontrol.
The influence of factors within government's control have also been significant. Excessive growth of the
money supply has contributed to the sharp depreciation of the kwacha, from 700 kwacha per US$1 in 1995
to 4,500 kwacha per US$I in 2001. This has made it difficult or impossible for small farmers to purchase
imported inputs, such as fertilizer. The depreciation of the currency has promoted agricultural exports, but
- 10 -



this has benefited primarily large, commercial farmers. Real interest rates have been high, upwards of
50%, making it difficult for farmers to access credit. Sector policies have been erratic. Although
government policy has been to withdraw from the distribution of fertilizer and other inputs, the marketing
of maize, and the provision of agricultural credit, it has continued to play a large role in these areas, but
one that has varied from year to year. This has discouraged private actors from providing these services,
so in years when government lacks resources, farmers are left without access to critical services.
Government also provided inadequate budget allocations to fund its commitments to counterpart funding.
Finally, after the tranfer of the Minister and PS that were the program's chief champions, government
failed to appoint officials who were committed to the program to key positions in the implementing agency,
and awareness of the importance of the program among supporting organizations diminished.
5.3 Factors gener-alih' subject to imp/lenmenting agencl control.
Factors within the control of the implementing agency, MAC, had an important impact on program
outputs. MAC's capacity to manage even the reoriented program was limited. Coordination between
MAC's departments and units were poor, and linkages between headquarters and MAC's provincial and
district offices inadequate. MAC's units for planning, market information, and monitoring and evaluation,
were weak and efforts to strengthen them unsatisfactory. MAC's weaknesses in financial management and
procurement led to significant delays in implementation during the initial years of the program, and
disbursements lagged well behind the program timetable until the program was reoriented in 1998.
5.4 Costs and financing.
The staff appraisal report estimated the total program costs (including contingencies) to be US$350 million
over four years. Of this, US$60 million was to come from the IDA Credit, US$140 rnillion was to come
from the government and beneficiaries, and US$150 million was to come from other donors (Annex 2A).
The actual program costs amounted to US$249. Funding from the IDA Credit totals US$54 million (annex
2B). Government's contribution was US$89 million, and donors' contributions were US$105 million.]
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sListainahilit' r-ating.
Sustainability of the outputs of the IDA-supported activities of the reoriented program is rated as likely.
The susuainability of prograrn outputs will depend on the generation and adoption of better agricultural
technology, which themselves will depend on the effectiveness of the research and extension systems. Both
the research and extension systems of Zambia have been strengthened under the program. The research
system, particularly the Soils and Crop Research Branch, now has the capacity to initiate new research and
to complete ongoing research programs. The government views agricultural research as a priority, and has
included research as an activity for funding in fiscal 2002 under the Highly Indebted Poor Country's
Initiative (HIPC). Additional resources for research will be mobilized from other donors and from the
IDA-supported successor program to ASIP, expected to be approved in fiscal 2003. The two research
trusts are likely to be sustained. The Golden Valley Research Trust is already largely self-financing. It has
won the confidence of most donors and private firms, and many are likely to contract the trust to carry out
research during the next few years. The Cotton Development Trust will be self-financing if the national
assembly passes a proposed law that will enable it to charge a levy on ginned cotton and if cotton prices are
adequate to encourage farmers to grow the crop. Until then, MAC is expected to continue providing the
trust with the funds it needs to operate.
The sustainability of the extension program is likely. The extension program is likely to become
- 11 -



increasingly effective and responsive to farmers needs-and therefore sustainable-with its ongoing
transformation away from the training and visit model towards the participatory extension approach that
provides extension services on demand. About 40 percent of extension agents have now been trained in the
new approach; by 2004 all will have received training. The system has been implemented in 27 districts
out of a total of 73, and it will be scaled up to cover the entire country as quickly as staff can be trained. It
is planned to shift costs of funding the extension services to local government and to farmers to ensure that
services match demanac, which is necessary to guarantee the long-termn sustainability of the system.
Creating a system in which farmers request and contribute towards the costs of services also opens the
system to a multiplicity of service providers who compete for business. Donors, MAC staff at all levels,
farmers' groups, nongovernmental organizations, and other stakeholders support the new concept.
The sustainability of the achievements of the seed multiplication and distribution component is likely.
Farmers produce and market the seeds for profit. The government's role is limited to providing technical
assistance and to setting and enforcing standards. Five seed testing laboratories are established in strategic
locations (Copperbelt, North Western, Central), and are fully equipped and operating successfully. Several
donors, including the UNDP, SIDA, and the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD),
continue to provide support to Seed Standards and Multiplication, variety testing and registration, seed
testing, seed inspections, etc. activities.
The sustainability of the soil fertility initiative and conservation farming is also likely. Farmers recognize
the benefits of the low or no cost techniques to enhance soil fertility and to raise agricultural productivity,
and on their own continue to apply the practices once they have learned how to use them.
The outputs of the rural investment fund are likely are likely to be sustained. Communities themselves
select the subprojects and contribute to their costs by donating either labor or financial resources. An early
problem with the flmd-failure to give adequate attention during project preparation to issues of operation
and maintenance -has been rectified, and communities are now experiencing few problems operating and
maintaining their infrastructure.
The government has prepared a program to follow the ASIP, the Agricultural Commercialization Program,
and has requested assistance of donors to implement it. SIDA, the Finnish International Development
Agency, and NORAD have selected elements they wish to support. Other donors, including IDA, will soon
specify activities for which they will provide assistance. The government is also preparing for IDA
financing the Agricultural Development Support Program. This program will support the policy and
institutional reforms and the investment activities needed to promote growth of agricultural productivity in
Zambia that were started under ASIP.
6.2 Transition arrUagn-ement to reggular operlationi%.
The program has been implemented through existing government structures, so the transition to regular
operations will not be difficult. However, the Ministry will be confronted with shortage of funds to carry
out activities at a level it used to implement activities before the closing of the IDA Credit. To reduce the
shortfall in funding, the government has made provisions in its budgetary allocations for 2002, to use HIPC
resources to fund the previously IDA-supported activities. Some donors have programs that would
partially cover the Ministry's requirement for activities that used to be covered by IDA. For instance,
USAID is supporting Policy and Planning Branch, which IDA used to support. Similarly, SIDA provides
assistance to seed multiplication , conservation farming and mobilization of farmer organizations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
- 12 -



Bank
7. I Leniding.
The Bank's overall performance in lending was marginally satisfactory. The Bank's performance in
identification was unsatisfactory. At the time of identification, the sector investment concept was very new
and the conditions under which it would work little understood. Despite the limited experience, program
designers did recognize that two preconditions were needed for success: (1) a supportive macroeconomic
and institutional environment, and (2) agreement among key donors to pool their funding and follow
common implementation arrangements. Both preconditions were absent in Zambia at the time the concept
was proposed. Zambia was experiencing macroeconomic instability, including high inflation and rapid
currency devaluation during the first half of the 1 990s. Moreover, donors were divided on the use of the
proposed basket-funding mechanism. Many donors felt the Bank was aggressively driving the process and
was not giving others the chance to understand the concept and participate in the program. As a result, the
ASIP become known as a World Bank program, which is far from its intention of promoting government
ownership.
The Bank's performance in preparation was marginally satisfactory. The Bank fielded three missions
during preparation, comprising world renowned experts in rural development, extension, and public sector
management. Despite considerable efforts by the Bank, however, many weaknesses in preparation
remained. Such an innovative, ambitious, and complex program requires detailed preparation of policy and
institutional reforms and investment activities to succeed. Yet, the institutional analysis undertaken was not
adequate to clarify the roles and functions of government entities at various levels and reveal serious
weaknesses in implementation capacity. A more thorough analysis may have led the Bank and governnent
teams to develop much more comprehensive plans to strengthen capacity or to take another approach to
support sector development. It was envisaged that many of the responsibilities for implementation would
be decentralized to local government offices and communities, yet the mechanisms for transferring funds to
local government were not specified and the means of building local capacity unclear. The Bank also left
the implementation of strengthened financial management and procurement arrangements until after the
start of programn execution. This lack of detailed preparation contributed to the problems encountered
during the first two years of the program.
The Bank's performance in appraisal was marginally satisfactory. The Bank fielded three missions during
appraisal, comprising experts in financial management, agricultural economics, agricultural production,
economics, land use, disbursement, procurement, planning and budgeting, and operations (including sector
investrnent specialists). The Bank's safeguard policies were discussed and agreed with the government.
Because the project was expected to have few if any negative environrmental impacts, it was classified
category B. An environmental mitigation plan was developed to address any potentially adverse
environmental impacts arising from the program. In addition, ASIP included a detailed program
implementation manual with implementation arrangements for each subcomponent, including activities,
organization and management, cost estimates, and performance indicators. However, many aspects of
appraisal were unsatisfactory. Appraisal of government's commitment was unsatisfactory. Government's
commitment to the program concept was much weaker than its Letter of Sector Development Policy
indicated, a matter that other donors raised with the Bank team. The Bank team should have listened more
carefully to the views of others. Appraisal of the capacity of the implementing agency and the capacity for
financial management and procurement was inadequate. Communications with donors were not regular
and open, contributing to distrust.
7.2 Supervision-
- 13 -



Bank supervision was satisfactory. Supervision of the program was intensive from the beginning. The
Bank fielded 18 missions during the program's six years of implementation. Missions included experts in a
wide range of fields, including sector investment programs, financial analysis, procurement, agriculture,
economics, agricultural services, and private sector development. They did not, however, include
specialists on community driven development or on operations of social funds. This was a deficiency
considering that the rural investment fund was a major element of the program. The Bank team was
optimistic that actions specified during appraisal would be carried out as agreed and that program activities
would start on time. The Bank sent special implementation support missions to Zambia to help the
government initiate and operate the program successfully. After one year of implementation it became
clear that the program was not working as intended. The Bank team considered various options to address
the problems, including canceling the Credit. However, a lack of continuity of Bank task managers delayed
decisions until nearly three years after the program started. An agreement was reached during the midterm
review to refocus IDA's support on core activities. However, a formal restructuring should have been
undertaken at this time, with the program description modified in an amendment to schedule two of the
DCA to reflect the significant shift that took place away from a sector investment approach towards a
traditional lending model. The Bank provided intensive supervision support for the reoriented program,
proactively identifying emerging problems and addressing them before they became unmanageable. The
involvement of both country office staff and sector managers in the implementation process helped to
improve its implementation. Performance with implementation progress of the program was consistently
rated satisfactory. The Quality Assurance Group reviewed in 2000 the supervision of the program and
rated it satisfactory.
7.3 Ovevall Bank per/orlna?nce
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. The Bank developed and introduced a new concept for
improving the performance of public sector management and the agricultural sector in Zambia. The overall
approach was grounded in the belief that development assistance would be more effective if funds of all
donors were combined and used to support government's own sector development programs, rather than to
support donor-driven stand-alone investment projects. The Bank then devoted substantial human and
financial resources to prepare, appraise, and supervise the program. It also acted flexibly to reorient the
program when it became clear the sector investment approach was not working. Finally, it intensively
supervised implementation of the reoriented program to ensure that it succeeded.
Borr-owver
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation was unsatisfactory. Although the Borrower requested and
actively worked to prepare the program, it did not undertake the policy and institutional reforms that were
prerequisites to success. The Borrower prepared the 16 subcomponents that comprised the program, but
did not formulate clear plans to implement, which made it difficult to translate strategies into action. Like
the Bank, the government failed to recognize weaknesses in its capacity to implement such a complex
program, and did not, therefore, develop plans to increase capacity. It also underestimated the time that
would be needed to complete the reform process. In sum, the government overestimated its readiness to
undertake the program and minimized the challenges it faced.
7.5 G(ov'ernniewt wipf/)lemenlt'imta  perlorm1an U.
The Borrower's performance in implementation was unsatisfactory. Following the elections of 1996, the
main champion of the approach left office, and the government's commitment to ASIP waned. The
government did not comply with some of the assurances it provided at negotiations. In particular, it did not
- 14 -



fully implement policies laid out in its Letter of Sector Development Policy to liberalize markets and to
withdraw from its extensive involvement in the economic activities. The minister of agriculture also
unilaterally disbanded the agricultural sector steering committee probably for political reasons. This
eliminated the body that was meant to provide independent oversight and policy advice. The government's
performance improved following the midterm review. Despite its slow progress in reforming the civil
service, it completed the much delayed restructuring of MAC and placed staff in key positions at
headquarters and provincial and district offices. The ministry of finance started releasing counterpart funds
quarterly, although it stopped in 1999 when serious revenue shortfalls arose. It also assigned qualified
accountants to MAC's financial management unit. Finally, it opened up to the advice of the independent
Agricultural Consultative Forum. However, the government failed to address other important issues that
ultimately limited the program's development impact. The government's erratic implementation of sector
reforms in fertilizer distribution, provision of credit, and maize marketing undermined the program's
objective to stimulate private sector development. Its declining budgetary allocations to the sector also
contributed to its subpar performance.
7 6 Implementing Agenci.
The performance of the implementing agency was marginally satisfactory. Prior to the midterm review, the
performance of the implementing agency was unsatisfactory. While it was undergoing its restructuring, it
did not implement any subprograms. Following the midterm review, performance improved. MAC
implemented most of the recommendations of the midterm review. It adopted the recommendations of an
international consulting firm hired to design a financial management system, and provided intensive training
to its staff on how to use it. MAC implemented a new financial management system that allowed funds to
flow directly to districts and cost centers. This led to significant improvements in the rate of disbursement
of IDA resources; nearly 90 percent of the Credit was disbursed following the midterm review, although
only 7 percent had been disbursed before then. Procurement performance also markedly improved.
Improvements in project management led to more rapid implementation of community-level projects
through the rural investment fund. Despite the improvements in MAC's performance following the midterm
review, several weaknesses remained. Its policy analysis and monitoring and evaluation capacities
remained underdeveloped. This is due to the poor compensation offered compared with the private sector,
which has led to rapid turnover of staff and difficulties in attracting new and qualified staff. Moreover,
MAC officials at headquarters did not provide strong leadership for implementation of the program. The
program's ultimate success is due mainly to the strong commitment of district staff to its implementation.
The closing date of the Credit was extended twice.
7 7 Overall Borrower perorlnance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated marginally satisfactory. Although performance during the
initial years of implementation was poor, the government and the implementing agency improved their
performance significantly following the midterm review. It is on the basis of this improved performance
that the satisfactory rating is given.
8. Lessons Learned
For a complex institutional reform program to succeed it is essential that there is sustained and
broad-based commitment to, and ownership of proposed changes. A major weakness of ASIP was that
it was dependent on the championship of a few officials who had moved on by the time ASIP became
effective. An assessment of ownership and commitment requires a great deal of caution and broad-based
commitment avoids sudden erosion as experienced in this program.
- 15 -



The sequence of institutional and policy reforms should be carefully planned and executed. The
attempt to carry out institutional (restructuring, decentralization) and policy reforms (credit policy, input
marketing policy, output marketing policy, land policy) while implementing sector-wide initiatives was
difficult for a weak implementing institution like MAC. The reform strategy should have concentrated on
sequencing the reforms and building on what had been successful, while redressing those that proved
difficult to implement.
Transitional measures and expected output should be clearly defined. A transitional period was
necessary to put in place the institutional framework and pilot certain initiatives. The output expected from
these activities carried out during the transition should have been clearly defined so as not to create high
expectations. Institutional development takes time, and it takes time to see responses to the stimulus
provided by the reforms. Therefore, the expected output of programs such as ASIP should be realistic.
For complex projects and programs it is essential that there is a unit fully responsible for the
day-to-day running of the operation. On the grounds of sustainability, the ASIP avoided the creation of a
project implementation unit and decided to use existing structures to implement the program. The
weaknesses of project implementation units are discussed in the SAR, but experiences in the
implementation of complex programs like ASIP through an existing structure was not mentioned. It is not
clear on what basis this implementation arrangement was selected over the project implementation unit. As
a long-term program, it would have been prudent to start with a small project implementation unit in the
first phase and transfer responsibilities to new or existing structures in subsequent phases as capacity
develops.
Risks and mitigating measures should be identified realistically. During the course of ASIP's
preparation, and at the time of Board presentation, a number of risks were identified; notably, questions
were raised about ASIP's implementation when the restructuring of MAC had not been completed. No
provision was made for any delays in the restructuring of MAC. Similarly, no provision was made for the
risk of government failing to adopt and implement the Letter of Sector Policy Development.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borr- oei/iimplellleinting agency'.
The Agriculture Sector Investment Program was prepared in 1994-95 and launched in January 1996 as an
innovative approach to rationalize and coordinate over 180 ongoing and prospective agricultural projects
financed by 15 donors. With management capacity at Ministry of Agriculture Food and Fisheries (MAFF)
overtaxed, ASIP provided a framework to consolidate project management and achieve efficiencies in
disbursement and procurement (MAFF changed to the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MAC),
effective January 2000). The ASIP closed on 31 December, 2001 after two one-year extensions.
Under ASIP the Government prepared 17 sub-programs/components for donor funding. Bilateral and
multilateral donors agreed to designate which components of the Government-prepared program they would
support and then channel their financing through a single fund, or "basket" administered by the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF). The single basket concept meant that accounting; disbursements
and procurement would be unified across all participating donors. Stakeholders, who were involved in the
preparation of ASIP, had high expectations that the program would bolster the agriculture sector, which
had been suffering from drought, the side effects of structural adjustment and the collapse of the sector's
credit institutions.
- 16 -



IDA was a major financier of the ASIP. At the initial stages of ASIP, the proposed IDA credit of US $60
million (17% of appraisal estimated ASIP costs) was to finance mainly parts of the research, extension,
training, institutional support and land sub-programs and investment activities under the rural investment
fund in the pilot schemes component. However, in 1998, at the Mid-term Review (MTR) the IDA portion
of the program was restructured with the components financed by IDA reduced to three; (i) agricultural
services, (ii) capacity building and (iii) the Rural Investment Fund (RIF). This was to ensure greater
responsibility for administration and financial management, which by then was transferred to the Districts.
After the MTR, implementation accelerated and ultimately 91.5% of the original $60 million IDA
allocation was disbursed. The ASIP closed on 31st December, 2001 after two one-year extensions.
There were a number of issues that impeded the development impact of ASIP. At the outset, there were
high expectations for the ASIP by stakeholders. Politicians fueled expectations among farmers particularly
that there would be credit to which they would have ready access. This was however not the case as an
Agricultural Credit Component was never funded. The thwarted expectations hurt future cooperation with
ASIP.
Protracted MAFF restructuring hampered implementation capacity. Both Government and the Bank
greatly underestimated the time and cost required to restructure. An outside body independent of MAFF to
ensure an improved institution should have done MAFF restructuring. There was also slow compliance
with the conditions of the policy-based loans, sectoral policy, privatization, and Governance reduced the
flow of funds to ASIP.
Government involvement in the preparation of the components was not strong. ASIP sub-programs were
not well defined as would have been the case with a traditional project approach which disappointed
donors, and caused them to revert to the traditional individualistic project approach. All sub-programs
were nationwide, had unrealistic funding requirements and often did not have clear strategy. The
nationwide emphasis was one reason for the high original estimated cost of ASIP.
Donor participation also limited ASIP's impact. Bi-lateral donors did not want to relinquish control over
their funds and were not enthusiastic about the basket concept of ASIP, which was a reason why the donor
funding in ASIP fell well short of plan. Finally, the World Bank did not take adequate time to assess and
nurture wider donor support. This created the perception that ASIP was a World Bank Project.
The preparation and design stages of ASIP are rated unsatisfactory on both the Government and IDA sides.
However, all subprograms with the exception of the Policy and Planning subprogram are rated satisfactory
for implementation after the mid-term review. Similarly, the IDA and the Government performances are
rated satisfactory for implementation and supervision. Sustainability of the ASIP as a program is rated
highly unlikely. Gains achieved under ASIP are not sustainable for several reasons. The design and
preparation did not provide for post-programn maintenance and replacement of resources purchased under
the project. In addition, the under implementation of the private sector portion of ASIP meant that
activities that would more likely be sustained according to private sector incentives were not carried out.
Most public sector activities were carried out, but are not sustainable without follow-up donor assistance.
The overall rating for ASIP is satisfactory.
The Government project completion report is a result of discussions with stakeholders, review of
the many preparation and evaluation documents on ASIP and intensive meetings of the ASIP
Task Force, including a four-day seminar covering the major issues of ASIP.
(h) Co/inancunrs.
- 17 -



The other donors involved in ASIP have not prepared any written evaluations of ASIP. It is, however, quite
clear that all participating donors have lost confidence in one of the key concepts of ASIP, that is, 'pooled
funding'. As a result, they have reverted to supporting their individual projects, within a very loosely
defined ASIP framework
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.
10. Additional Information
Zambia's economy, including the agriculture sector, remains in a critical state, mainly as a result of policy
failure and economic mismanagement. Moreover, as Zambia's economy slides into recession with the
collapse of the mining sector, and natural man-made disasters (drought and the HIV-AIDS pandemic)
compounding the problem, the question of what to do in the agriculture sector to diversify the economy and
increase agricultural growth becomes more and more urgent.
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR              -Actual/Latest Estimate
Agricultural GDP (million 1994 constant  1995 baseline 395, target 466^   419
kwacha)
Total value of agricultural export (USS  1995 baseline 55. target 140     125
million)
Food production index 1981=100       1995 baseline 130. target 170        128
Land productivity (average yield per hectare  1995 baseline 1.6. target 2.2  1.5
of maize) tons
Net annual agricultural income per farn  1995 baseline 70,000, target 95,000  62,000
household (1994 kwacha)
* 1977 prices and 1994 prices respectively.
Baselincs and targets as presented in the staff appraisal report. For additional performance indicators sec annex I table I B.
Output Indicators:
lndlcator/MatrHx                   Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Policy and Institutional Improvement  Restructuring                    Delay in completing the restructuring was
constraint
Decentralization                     Following midterm review, implementation
decentralized and district agricultural
committees and DACOs given more
responsibility.
Establish financial management unit to  The financial management unit not functional
handle basket funding"               until after the midterm review; basket funding
not implemented.
Uberalze input suppty and crop markets;  Markets for input and output liberalized; trade
remove trade restrictions.           restrictions removed; but govemment
interventions In fertilizer, credit, and maze
markets continued.
Take action to improve smallholder access to No action taken, limited progress.
credit
B. Public Investment -                Establish the Golden Valley Agricultural  Established.
Agricultural Research and extension  Trust
Undertake research on basis of farmer  A total of about 34 varieties released;
demand                               reportedly are in demand by communities.
Assist farmers to increase production  The T&V was replaced by the participatory
through adoption of proven agricultural  extension approach;
technologies/practIces               Adopton rate ranges from 15 to 95%
Improved animal health services and disease Percentage of farmers accessing livestock
control, and husbandry practices.    extension and veternary services fell.
C. Private sector development - Seed  Establish farmer-based commercial seed  About 8,000 growers engaged in seed
multiplication and distribution      multplicaton and distdbution system.  production for commercial purposes and
system In place.
Support smaliholder and commercial   Share of nontraditional exports rose
farners to diversify into nontraditional  signflcanUy, more than doubling the 1996
exports,                               vel.
D. Pilot Investment Fund             Buid the production capacity of small scale  Over 1.800 rural investment fund subprojects
Rural Investment fund                farners by providing matching grants for  were funded at US$17 million.
small scale capital investment
Prtvatize state and parastatal farm land  State farms privatized immadiately and did
not need support of the program.
End of project
1999 figure (initial official closing target of prqlect. timc serics data is available in annex la).
Constructed based on the staff appraisal report. For additional perfornmancc indicators sec annex Ia.
- 19-



- 20 -



Annex la
Annex la. ASIP: Key Performance Indicators (Revised)
1998                1999                2000                2001
Target    Actual    Target    Actual    Target    Actual     Target    Actual
A. Agricultural Extension
Number of farmers        150        175      185        145      200         140      250        200
adopting one or more
technologies ('000)
Field demonstrations     2500       2300     3,200      2,300    4300       8,000     8,000      10,500
(farmer fields)                    I_I
Field demonstrations,    85         70       85         68       85         73        85         72
(adoption rates))
B. Soiis and Crops
Research Branch
Number of varieties                 15                  3                   3                    6
released
Breeder and foundation
seeds released (MT):                30                  52                  33                   45
Quantity of seed produced           3032                3481                2825                 18262
from SCRB varieties (MT)
C. Seed Control and
Certification Institute
Seed testing (number)    3,000      2,980    4,000      6,500    5,000      4,200     6,000      4,400
Seed production by the   1,500      2500     2,500      3000     2,800      3590      3,000      3700
informal sector (MT)                                                       I
Seed production by Seed             7,031               6,737                10,600              15,100
Companies (MT)                                                             I
Cassava (cuttings, '000)  1,000     700      5,000      4,230     10,000     8,120    20,000     14,509
Sweet potato (vines, '000)  2,000   1,500    4,000      2,840     2,500     2,030     5,000      3,617
D. SFI and CF
Number of farmers trained
in CF related technologies:  15,000  32,414  6,000      12,777   20,000     30,000    20,000     12,000
Quantity of legume seed  8,000      12,000   8,000      9,600     10,000    20,250    15,000     22,000
supplied (kilogram)
Farmers adopting         20,000     39,246   20,000     26,000   30,000     25,391    30,000     20,000
conservation farming
E. Rural Investment fund
Number of subprojects    80         211      317        445      200         776      200        245
completed
Matching grant fund      1,200      2,800    3,000      3,144    2,000       5,302    2,655      3,178
disbursed - US$, ('000)
F. M&E
Surveys                  PHS &      PHS &    PHS &      PHS      PHS         PHS      PHS        NA
CFS        CFS      CFS
Sector performance       SPA-       SPA-     SPA        SPA      SPA         SPA      SPA        NA
analysis (SPA)           MTR        MTR
Source: Ministry of Agriculture, June 2002
Abbreviations: CFS=crop forecast survey; PHS=post harvest survey; SFI=soil fertility initiative; CF=conservation
farming; MTR=midterm report.
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Table IA: Original Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
*-rjwCo     lt-By Component     '         .      l milion  :  S$ million
1. Institution building
a. MAFF headquarters"*                             10.5            61.5           585.7
b. Policy and planning, M&E                        11.6             6.1            52.6
c. Financial management unit                        1.6             0.7            43.8
d. Standards                                        4.7
Subtotal                                        28.4            68.3           240.5
2. Public investments
a. Research                                        58.0            20.8            35.9
b. Extension and information                       35.0            14.6            41.7
c. Animal production and health                    48.3            13.4            27.7
d. Fisheries development                           16.6             6.4            38.6
e. Farm power and mechanization                     3.1             3.0            96.8
f. Irrigation                                       6.7            13.4          200.0
g. Agricultural training                           15.0             4.2            28.0
Subtotal                                       182.7            75.8            41.5
3. Private sector development
a. Seed multiplication and distribution             4.2             3.1            73.8
b. New product development                          6.0             -
c. Rural finance
Agricultural inputs                          56.0
Marketing and trade                          19.4             6.2            32.0
Subtotal                                        85.6        .    9.3            10.9
4. Public investment schemes
a. Rural investment fund                           27.0            17.0            63.0
b. Privatization of state farms                    26.3             -
Subtotal                                         53.3            17.0           31.9
Total baseline costs shown by component               350.0           170.4
Total baseline costs not shown by component                            78.3
Total Baseline Costs                                  350.0           248.7            71.1
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs               350.0           248.7            71.1
Total Financing Required                350.0           248.7
*      Because a portion of the expenditure is not identified by subprogram, the percentage values shown above
do not tell the whole story. In the first three years of the program, the FMU did not keep records by subprogram.
**     Disbursement to provinces and districts are made through headquarters, therefore a much higher figure is
shown for MAFF headquarters.
- 22 -



Table IB: IDA-supported Project Costs by Corm onent (revised) (in US$ million equivalent)
Cmost  ney1 pnt      ';nt     US$ million'    U      L    _
1. Institution building
a. MAFF headquarters**                          0.0            0.2
b. Policy and planning, M&E                     8.0            3.0            37.5
c. Financial management unit                    1.0            0.7            70.0
d. Standards                                    2.5            0.0
Subtotal                                    11.5             3.9           33.9
2. Public investments
a. Research                                    21.5           21.0            97.7
b. Extension and infommation**                  4.0            7.7           192.5
c. Animal production and health                 0.0            0.0
d. Fisheries development                        0.0            0.0
e. Farm power and mechanization                 0.0            0.0
f. Irrigation                                   0.0            0.0
g. Agricultural training                        8.5            3.9            45.9
Subtotal                                    34.0            32.6           95.9
3. Private sector development
a. Seed multiplication and distribution         0.0            0.0
b. New product development                      0.0            0.0
c. Rural finance                                0.0            0.0
Agricultural inputs                       0.0             0.0
Marketing and trade                       0.0             0.0
Subtotal                                     0.0
4. Public investment schemes
a. Rural investment fund                       10.0           17.1           171.0
b. Privatization of state farms                 4.5            0.0
Subtotal                                    14.5            17.1          117.9
Total Baseline Costs                              60.0            53.6           89.3
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs            60.0            53.6 1
Total Financing Required             60.0           53.6
* Note: Because of the depreciation of the dollar against the SDR the loan amount declined to $55,447,215.00
on December 31, 2001. Disbursement out of this loan amount is 97%.
** Expenditures on fisheries, animal husbandry, irrigation, seed multiplication, conservation farming, and the
like are included under agricultural extension.
Table IC: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements, Original
(Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- 23 -



Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category          ICB          NCB         Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Civil Works (rehabilitation)   0.00          7.00         0.80        0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (6.80)       (0.70)      (0.00)       (7.5)
2. Goods (vehicles and equip.)    19.50         1.00         1.20        0.00         0.00
(19.50)       (0.90)       (1.00)      (0.00)       (21.4)
3. Credit                          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Rural Investment Fund           0.00         0.00         10.00       0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (10.00)      (0.00)      (10.00)
5. Technical Assistance           0.00          0.00         6.60        0.00         0.00
(mainly short-term)               (0.00)       (0.00)       (6.60)       (0.00)       (6.6)
6. Training                        0.00         0.00         10.40       0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)      (10.40)      (0.00)       (10.4)
7. Recurrent Costs /a              0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
8. Incremental Recurrent           0.00         0.00         5.10        57.40        62.50
Costs lb                          (0.00)       (0.00)       (4.10)       (0.00)      (4.10)
Total                           19.50        8.00         34.10       288.40      350.00
__________________________       (19.50)       (7.70)       (32.80)      (0.00)      (60.00)
1/ Figure in parentheses is the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit and includes contingencies.
2/ NBF mean not Bank-financed (includes elements provided under parallel co-financing procedures, consultants
under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other miscellaneous items).  The procurement
arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in
footnotes to the table.
la Includes staff salaries, and staff allowances and expenses.
lb Includes travel and subsistence, operating and maintenance costs, and other miscellaneous operating costs.
Table 1D: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements for IDA Supported Components
(Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
- 24 -



Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category              ICB            NCB            Other2'        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Civil Works (rehabilitation)        0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods (vehicles and equip.)         0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(4.7)           (2.8)          (1.7)         (0.00)         (9.2)
3. Credit                              0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Rural Investment Fund               0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (17.1)         (0.00)        (17.1)
5. Technical Assistance                0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(mainly short-term)                   (0.00)          (0.00)          (4.6)         (0.00)         (4.6)
6. Training                            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (3.9)         (0.00)        (3.9)
7. Recurrent Costs /a                  0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
8. Incremental Recurrent               0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
Costs /b                              (0.00)          (0.00)          (18.8)        (0.00)        (18.8)
Total*                               4.7             2.8           46.1            2.0          53.6
(4.7)           (2.8)          (46.1)         (0.00)        (53.6)
Note: Estimate is still provisional due to incomplete information for 1996 and 1997.
l Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identiflcation/Preparaffon
1992
11/11/1992                  8    Team leader, economist,
financial analyst, banking
specialist, grassroots institutional
specialist, irrigation specialist,
agriculturist,agricultural
economist.
03/30/1993                   1   Economist.
11/07/1993                  5    Coffee specialist, economist,
operations and sector specialists.
Appraisal/Negotiation
03/24/1994                  14
07/24/1994                  14   Financial analyst/team leader,
sector investment specialist,
agricultural economist,
agriculturalists (2), financial
analyst, economists (5), land use
specialist, disbursement officer,
procurement officer, lead
specialist, planning and
budgeting specialist.
11/8/1994                   4    Sector investment specialist,
economist, planning and
budgeting specialist, operation
specialist.
Supervision
06/12/1995                   7   Sector investment specialist,      S             S
planning and budgeting
specialist.
11/21/1995                   3   Sector investment specialist,      S             S
planning and budgeting
specialist, financial analyst.
03/15/1996                   6   Sector investment specialist/team   S            U
leader, natural resource
management specialist, financial
analyst, planning and budgeting
specialist, operations officer.
06/28/1996                       Sector investment specialist/team   S            U
leader, natural resource
management specialist, financial
- 27 -



analyst, agriculturalist,
economist, operation officer.
02/24/1997                      9    Agriculturalist, sector investment    S              U
specialist, natural resource
management specialist,
operations officer, training
specialist, agricultural
economists, economists,
anthropologist, agricultural
services specialist.
08/15/1997                      1    Agricultural economist/task           S              U
manager
11/24/1997                      9   Agricultural economist/task            S              U
manager, agriculturalists (2),
agricultural services specialist,
financial analyst, operations
analyst, disbursement and
procurement specialist, irrigation
engineer, private sector
development specialist.
03/28/1998                      4    Agricultural economist/task           S               U
manager, agriculturalist,
agricultural service specialist,
financial analyst.
07/04/1998                      4    Agricultural economist/task            S              U
manager, agriculturalist,
agricultural service specialist,
irrigation specialist.
12/03/1998                      7   Agricultural economist/task
manager, agriculturalist,
financial analyst, agricultural
officer.
03/19/1999                      3    Agricultural economist/task
manager, agriculturalist,
financial analyst, agricultural
officer.
07/29/1999                      4    Agricultural economist/task                           S
manager, financial analyst,
agricultural officer,
agriculturalist.
12/17/1999                      8   Agricultural economist/task            S               S
manager, agriculturalist,
agricultural officer, financial
analyst, economist, economist.
02/16/2000                      4    Economist/team leader,
(limited)                            economist, agricultural specialist.
06/15/2000                      1    Economist/team leader,                 S              S
economist.
09/19/2000                      5    Economist/team leader,                 S              S
economist, financial analyst,
agriculturalists (2).
04/10/2001                      2    Economist/team leader,                 S              S
- 28 -



economist, agricultural specialist.
07/12/2001                   2   Economist/team leader,             S             S
economist, agriculturalists.
!2/?
ICR
03/04/2002                   4    Agricultural service
specialist/team leader,
research management
specialist, policy analyst,
economist.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              589.1                       931.0
AppraisaVNegotiation                    151.6                       558.7
Supervision                             446.2                     1,768.8
ICR
Total                                  1,186.9                    3,258.5
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantiai, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                        O H   O SU * M   O N   O NA
ISector Policies                         O H  O SU * M   O N   O NA
Z Physical                               O H  O SU OM    O N   * NA
F Financial                             O H   O SU * M   O N   O NA
F Institutional Development             0 H   0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
FEnvironmental                          O H   * SU O  M  O N   O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               OH    O SU * M   O N   O NA
X Gender                          O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
El Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      ON    * NA
F Private sector development            0 H   0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
I Public sector management               0 H  0 SU * M   0 N   0 NA
Li Other (Please specify)                O H  O SUOM     O N   * NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
 Lending                                          OHS OS       OU     OHU
F Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
F Overall                                          OHS * S      O U    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
F Preparation                                      OHS OS       * U    OHU
 Government implementation performance            O HS O S     * U    0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     O U    0 HU
9 Overall                                          OHS OS       Ou     O HU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     The World Bank, Staff Appraisal Report, Zambia: Agriculture Sector Investment Program, March
13, 1995.
2.     The World Bank, Development Credit Agreement, June 7, 1995.
3.     Institute of Economic and Social Research, Draft Factor Affecting Agricultural Production in
Zambia, prepared for MAFF, April 1997.
4.     Ministry of Finance and National Planning, Macroeconomic Indicators, December 2001, Lusaka,
Zambia.
5.     Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Fisheries, 1999/2000 Agricultural Statistics Bulletin,
Lusaka Zambia, 2002.
6.     Kane Consults, & Ruralnet Associates, Sector Performance Analysis of the Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP) 2000/2001, MAFF, January 30, 2002.
7.     DSI-Southem Africa, Financing the Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) in Zambia, A
GTZ Funded Study, November 2000.
8.     FAO, Rural Investment Fund, Final Assessment, Mackrandilal and Mudenda, February 2002
9.     Institute for African Studies, University of Zambia, Agricultural Sector Performance Analysis,
Vol. 2, prepared for MAFF, August 1996.
10.   Institute of Economic and Social Research, University of Zambia, Agricultural Sector Investment
Program, a Mid-term Review, prepared for MAFF, June 1998.
11. Ministry f Agriculture, Food and Fisheries, ASIP Successor Program - Soils and Crops Research
Component, September 2001.
12.    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries, Extension at Crossroads: A Review of Agricultural
Extension in Zambia, June 2000.
13.    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries, Is the Glass Half-Empty or Half - Full?, An Analysis
of Agricultural Production Trends in Zambia, Food Security Research Project, October 2000.
14.    Ministry of Agriculture Food and Fisheries, Beneficiary Assessment of the Rural Investment Fund,
September 2000.
15.    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries, Program Completion Report for ASIP, February
2002
- 32 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Annex 8.1 Rural Investment Fund - Beneficiary Assessment
I. Introduction
1.   The Rural Investment Fund (RIF) commissioned the Participatory Assessment Group (PAG) to
undertake a Beneficiary Assessment (BA) study whose purpose is to find out Farmer Group/Community
(FG/Community) members' views on key issues that relate to project implementation. This is with a view to
improve upon RIF's program. Over the past four years of its existence RIF has supported more than 700
agricultural related projects throughout the country. The issues looked at during the BA include project
identification and prioritization of felt needs; information flows regarding RIF; use and control of funds;
strength and weakness of community organizations; communities view of the procedures used to appraise,
approve and monitor sub-projects; factors affecting timely implementation of sub-projects; local
government involvement; sense of project ownership; sustainability and benefits derived from the
sub-projects in RIF supported activities derive, etc.
2.     Qualitative participatory research methods and tools have been used in generating the information
being analyzed and reported in this document. These tools were used in such a systematic manner that they
also produced quantifiable data. 31 RIF supported projects have been visited and studied. These are
scattered in 20 different districts in all the nine provinces of Zambia. The projects represent all the project
types funded by RIF which include storage and market sheds, water projects, i.e. wells, bore holes, dams,
canals, etc. They also include dip tanks, poultry houses and piggeries as well as roads and bridges. The
majority of interviewees (88%) consisted of ordinary FG/Community members. The views generated by
these were triangulated and amplified by other stakeholders in RIF supported projects. These are staff from
MAC and members of District Agriculture Committees (DACs)
II. Key Findings
3.     All the 31 RIF supported projects respond to FG/Community felt needs. About 90.3 percent were
identified by FG/Communities. The remaining 10 per cent by other individuals like staff from the MAC.
Although all the 31 supported projects respond to felt needs and the majority were identified by the
FG/Communities themselves mention should be made of the forces and factors external to the
FG/Communities, which greatly influence the decision regarding which project, among so many, they give
priority. These forces include what were often referred to as "district priorities", politicians and the often
very powerful District Agricultural Co-coordinator (DACO) of MAC.
4.     The major sources of information regarding RIF comes from MAC staff, i.e. the DACO and
extension officers; other sources include the radio, newspapers, televisions and people who travel from one
place to another. While all know that RIF assists with finances, many particularly women did not know the
amounts of these funds, how they are used and who controls them. In many cases not even the project
Executive Committee (EC) nor the DAC had this vital infornation. This is because often funds are
controlled from the Center, Lusaka. This was despite the EC having been told to open a bank account into
which RIF funds, which they would control, would be deposited. Inadequate information on funds tends to
demoralize FG/Communities especially their leaders who feel powerless. Suspicions of misuse of funds is
created and often become reason for non-completion or poor workmanship of projects. Lack of control of
project funds does not in any way build the capacities of beneficiary communities; if anything it
disempowers them.
- 33 -



5.     Strongly felt needs coupled with good community organization and leadership, which closely liaises
with the DACO and transparency through adequate information flows contribute towards effective
FG/Community self-management, mobilization and motivation.
6.     FG/Communities have been required to contribute 25 per cent of the total cost of their respective
project. This contribution largely takes the form of labor, namely, digging trenches, bringing construction
materials to project sites, etc. Cash contributions are also made in all project sites. Some offer the use of
their tools to project implementation. Major problems faced in making these contributions are transport
since much of the materials are heavy (sand, stones, water), time lag that often occurs between project
approval and funding, inability to raise the cash contributions and being overworked by RIF funded
projects especially if some FG/Comnmunity members decide to drop out.
7.     About 40 per cent of the projects studied did not experience any time lag between the various
project phases. The rest did, especially between project approval and disbursal of funds. In three cases, it
lasted as much as 24 months and had the effect of demoralizing FG/Community members many of whom
dropped out.
8.     MAC staff at district level are involved in disseminating information on RIF, assisting communities
to apply for RIF funds, appraising and monitoring projects. Those mentioned in particular are the DACO,
the extension staff, and staff from the Technical Services Branch. Staff from other government
departments, especially Water Affairs and Roads does also assist especially in project design. Private
business contractors are involved especially in big projects like dams.
9.     District Agricultural Committees (DACs) were found not to be as effective as desirable largely
because of inadequate resources to support their RIF related work. This often leaves DACOs to do this
work on their own. This makes it easy for powerful forces like politicians to exert their undue influence in
project identification.
10.    FG/Community members unanimously said they own RIF supported projects. What has brought
this sense of ownership are:
* the 25 per cent contributions to project implementation
* the strong felt need for the project
* they are the ones who derive benefits from it
* the fact that they and not RIF or anybody else identified the project.
11.      This sense of ownership was said to contribute considerably to project sustainability.
Communities would not wish to forfeit the benefits they derive from R.IF funded projects if these facilities
disintegrate. This factor was said to contribute to sustainability. So is the fact that FG/Communities are in
charge of the project through their leaders, the Executive Committee.
12.       19 of 25 completed projects have put in place maintenance committees to ensure sustainability
of facilities created or rehabilitated with RIF support. Besides, these committees levy user-fees, which are
meant for maintenance.
13.    Despite having been in operation for only about 4 years, in some districts much less, a number of
important benefits have already been acknowledged. The main ones being:
*   Improvement in the quality of life brought about by, among other things, clean water which
reduces diseases while providing opportunities for vegetable, fruit and fish farmning which in tum
- 34 -



improves the diet and consequently the health status of the community;
*   Improved quality of life has also been achieved through increased cash incomes brought about by
creation and improvements of storage and market sheds, roads and bridges and also fish farming,
and vegetable gardening;
*   Community empowerment has also been mentioned as a big benefit; indeed, the most often cited
benefit of RIF supported projects. This empowerment takes two forms, namely:
a) better community organization inspired and fostered by working together on RIF supported
projects; and,
b) acquisition of technical skills for relatively simple constructions and repairs.
14.    Most interviewees are happy with the 25 per cent they contribute towards the implementation of
RIF supported projects. This is because, among other things, it creates a sense of ownership over facilities
being provided and also because it takes the form of labor which is shared by many people to make it light.
FG/Communities are very happy with the assistance given by RIF in the creation and rehabilitation of
agricultural infrastructure. However, they would like RIF to enlarge its scope of eligible projects by
including the provision of the means with which to start utilizing the infrastructure created or rehabilitated.
In other words, do not only provide the storage shed to store crops or the dip tank; provide the inputs, i.e.
credit for seed and fertilizers or dip tank chemicals to enable FG/Communities start utilizing these facilities
to the maximum.
III. Recommendations:
15.    Many of these recommendations are drawn from the foregoing paragraphs and indeed from the rest
of the report. Others were specially suggested by interviewees.
A. Project identification
16.   Issue raised: While all projects that are and have been funded by RIF correspond to
FG/Community felt needs some influential individuals tend to exert undue influence on the identification of
projects for RIF Support. In some cases district guidelines favor one or another type of project thus
discouraging others, which may be more important to the community In others, politicians largely
determine choices.
17.    Recomnnendations:
*   strengthen DACs by providing them with resources, mainly transport and money, to enable them
hold regular meetings;
*   enlarge membership of RIF stakeholders and DACs to include other government departments in
order to avoid situations whereby DACOs are forced to act solo;
*   sensitize politicians into RIF guidelines and procedures;
*   where necessary review RIF district guidelines to enable different parts of the district benefit from
RIF support.
B. Information Flows, Transparency and Community Capacity Building
18.   Issue raised: Inadequate information flows especially regarding amounts and use of project
finances were found in many projects. Women in particular experienced this dearth of information. In
addition, by denying communities the opportunity to be in full control of their projects, including the
finances, RIF tends to disempower and not--build-the capacities of these communities.
- 35 -



19.    Recommendations
* ensure adequate information flows through such mechanisms as project launches and regular
FG/Community meetings at which minutes are taken and read.
* empower FG/Communities through the ECs by making them truly responsible for project funds
through participation in the disbursement of RIF's funds. In other words, MAC's Financial
Management Unit (FMU) should hand over the functions of funds control to beneficiary
communities like the Micro projects Unit/ZAMSIF is doing, while RIF, and not FMU, does the
disbursements from Lusaka.
C. Community organization and project ownership and project sustainability
20.    Issues raised: Effective community organization coupled with good leadership which adequately
responds to FG/Community felt needs and the 25 per cent contributions have been found to nurture the
sense of project/facility ownership which in turn contributes greatly towards project sustainability. Major
obstacles to community contributions include inadequate transport especially for heavy and bulk
construction materials, which often have to be carried on the head for long distances.
21.    Recommendations:
* RIF to include transport in its 75 per cent contributions in cases where it is felt necessary;
* All should share lessons learnt in some projects regarding the resolution of problems like that of
transport.
D. Time lag
23.    Issue raised: Delays between the various project phases have been found to play a negative role in
the implementation of RIF funded projects. They have had the effect of demoralizing FG/Community
members and their leaders.
24..   Recommendations:
*   Minimizing delay in processing project applications and especially in the disbursement of funds.
*   The newly created Provincial Technical Review Team PTRT should not lengthen but shorten the
bureaucratic processes as it should emphasize more on decentralization of the process than on
adding yet another step or stumbling block on the way.
E. District Involvement
25.    Issue raised: MAC staff at district level and to an extent those from departments of Roads and
Water Affairs play key roles in the implementation of RIF supported projects. However, some feel they are
not adequately remunerated for their involvement in RIF supported activities since they feel this is
additional work. DACs rarely meet because of inadequate resources. This Forces the DACO to take
important decisions on his own.
26.    Recommendations:
*   MAC should be very clear to its staff and those from other government departments who work on
RIF supported projects regarding whether involvement in these projects attracts additional
remuneration or are part of their daily work for which they receive a salary at the end of the month.
*    RIF should ensure that DACs hold regular meetings' preferable quarterly, by providing the
necessary financial resources.
* DAC membership should include more people from other government departments than is currently
- 36 -



the case.
F. Projects Benefits and RIF Mandate
27.    Issue raised: There already exists an impressive and long list of benefits which FG/Community
members and in some cases even non- members derive from RIF supported projects. However, full
utilization of these facilities established with RIF support is often restricted by insufficient resource base on
the part of the beneficiaries. At the sarne time RIF has not reached all corners of the districts and the
country.
28.    Recommendation: While making every effort to sensitize and reach even the remotest parts of the
country, RIF should review its mandate and consider providing resources, on credit basis, which will enable
project beneficiaries to fully utilize the facilities that have been created or rehabilitated with its assistance.
Annex 8.2: Rural Investment - Final Assessment
1.     A pilot Rural Investment Fund (RIF) was included under ASIP to provide matching grant funds to
smallholder farmer and other rural groups for small-scale capital investments. A wide range of crop and
livestock production activities and related support services would be eligible for support; beneficiaries
would be required to make a counterpart contribution; RIF would build on recent experience in Zambia
with similar donor-supported program, including the Social Investment Fund (ZAMSIF) supported by IDA
and community development funds supported by GTZ, IFAD and other donors, and attempt to consolidate
these in an effort to reach all vulnerable groups in rural areas. The program would emphasize capacity
building. It would work with groups of a manageable size and support training to help them become
self-reliant and capable of operating efficiently. Total costs were estimated at US$27.0 million over four
years, of which US$10.0 million would be drawn from the IDA Credit, with co-financing expected from
EU, AfDB, IFAD and SIDA -- as well, presumably, as required GRZ and beneficiary contributions,
although the specific financing plan was not shown.
2.     During implementation, RIF guidelines were developed and progressively revised enabling the
Fund to finance three types of activity: small-scale grants to groups for construction and rehabilitation of
rural infrastructure projects, such as dams, community roads, boreholes and pumps, dip tanks, storage
sheds, bridges, market sheds, fish ponds, poultry houses and piggeries, weirs and irrigation furrows,
afforestation; capacity-building of farmer groups in subproject preparation, implementation and
maintenance; and capacity-building of MAC staff to assist farmer groups to prepare, appraise, supervise
and monitor sub-projects. Below is a cumulative summary table of sub-projects funded through the RIF:
Rural Investment Fund (Rll): Projects Funded 1996-2001
- 37 -



Project Type           No. projects Total cost Av. Cost
ZKW        ZKW
mn         mn
Boreholes & wells              673    12,271.4      18.2
Dams                           123    10,204.7      83.0
Roads & bridges                341     7,070.3      20.7
Marketing & storage sheds      278     6,036.2      21.7
Irrigation furrows & canals    139     1,964.8      14.1
Animal production sheds         52     1,019.6      19.6
Livestock dip-tanks             74      644.6        8.7
Fish ponds                      69      631.6        9.2
Afforestation                    7      115.2       16.5
Total                         1,756  39,958.4       22.81
Source: Republic of Zambia, RIF, Draft Final Assessment
3.     Despite experience in Zambia with similar projects, the RIF component of ASIP was somewhat
sketchily prepared and, not surprisingly, encountered major implementation difficulties at the outset.
Principal design deficiencies were: (a) ambiguity as to whether RIF was intended as a pilot or full-scale
operation; although designated a 'pilot investment scheme' in the SAR, the specific approaches or methods
to be tested were not specified in the SAR nor in the Implementation Manual, and initially it appeared that
the Borrower had been left to decide how to proceed. The RIF was costed at US$27 million, far beyond the
reasonable needs of any pilot project; and although difficulties were encountered from the onset, it was only
after two years,with a handful of projects approved, that the difficulties were resolved and project
implementation picked up; (b) a misplaced assumption at appraisal (consistent with the overall ASIP
philosophy) that RIF could successfully be operated through MAC's existing structures; the scheme only
got underway after being given some managerial autonomy from MAC and a manager and accountant were
hired from outside the ministry; (c) a failure to address the whole 'social capital' issue, even though the
enterprises envisaged for management by farmer groups and cooperatives were clearly unsuitable with long
and checkered histories in Zambia; (d) inadequate provision for capacity building, especially for farmer and
staff training in participatory planning and project management methods (remedied with ASIP's subsequent
shift from the T&V system to a more participatory extension approach); and (e) a serious lack of attention
to the operational and financial viability of sub-projects and thus of RIF as a whole.
4.     That these design problems were all, with varying degrees of success, addressed after the mid-term
review represents one of ASIP's positive achievements. According to the Final Assessment Report (FAR)
prepared as input to possible RIF follow-up operation, RIF has been able to achieve its objectives. RIF has
been successful in meeting its primary objective of providing support for small-scale infrastructure in rural
communities. There is little doubt that RIF was, and remains, the most appreciated component of ASIP
among local communities, elected officials and the MAC, as it provides beneficiaries with tangible benefits.
The FAR considers the major strength of RIF to be its efficiency as a delivery mechanism of much needed
infrastructure to small farmers. It should also be recognized that the RIF Secretariat has been diligent in its
management and reporting duties, especially in the last two years, as evidenced by the timeliness and
content of its regular progress and special reports.
5.     As documented in the FAR and other reports, there are some areas which need improvement,
particularly, in view of a proposed IDA follow-up operation. RIF is funded only through the end of 2002
- 38 -



by HIPC and the Netherlands (Western Province). There are two kinds of RIF subprojects: community
infrastructure projects, such as feeder roads, bridges, markets, dams and water supply; and agricultural
income-generating or other directly production-related investments, such as animal health and production
facilities, fishponds and crop storage sheds. Communities have been willing to provide a substantial
contribution, mainly in the form of labor and material, for the construction of small infrastructure projects.
It is perhaps too early to assess their long-term commitment benefits and sustainability, but in general the
community infrastructure projects are found useful and are much appreciated by the local people, although
issues have arisen in some cases over maintenance responsibility.
6.     Difficult problems have arisen in some category of subprojects directly related to production that
face an uncertain future. Quite frequently the Bank is blamed for its unwillingness to permit disbursement
of the Credit for financing of working capital requirements, which beneficiary groups are supposed to find
from their own resources or through credit. The Bank was clearly correct (on efficiency and equity
grounds) in resisting a generalized opening of the tap for funding of 'working capital'. However, as the
FAR points out, RIF as a pilot project could and should first have deliberately tested: "the ability of groups
of small farmers to plan, implement and manage [such projects] in Zambia where supporting services were
weak or nonexistent. This fundamental aspect of the program was ignored or forgotten almost from the
beginning".
7.     Looking ahead, the FAR concludes: "The percentage of farmer groups capable of managing
productive income-generating enterprises is likely to continue to be low. Altemative ways of promoting
these enterprises needs to be found." A number of useful recommendations for consideration under a
possible follow-up operation are provided:
*   Financing of working capital for groups with demonstrated high levels of social capital.
*   Scaled down projects for individual management within the group, with repayrnents used to finance
other members.
*   Lower contributions from vulnerable groups.
*   More detailed treatment of social capital in determining eligibility of groups for financing.
*   Strengthening of financial capacity at district and FG level to manage a larger number of smaller
projects.
8.     In researching alternative ways to promote viable and sustainable enterprises for Zambian
smallholder farmers, a central issue receiving GRZ and donor attention is creating synergy among projects
implemented at the community level. For example, in preparation of the Government's forthcoming
Agricultural Commercialization Program (ACP) which is expected to provide a more cohesive framework
for developing the sector, merging the separately evolved RIF and ZAMSIF structures and procedures for
planning and financing community infrastructure projects should be explored as an option. This option
could preserve RIF's privileged access to MAC's extension staff structure in rural areas as well as the
accumulated management experience and databases of both funds.
9.     Additional issues that demand close attention for any RIF follow-up project include: poverty
targeting; gender strategy; clarifying the roles of District Development Committees (DDC), District
Agriculture Committees (DAC), and District Agricultural Coordinators (DACO) of MAC in project
promotion and selection; arrangements for technical review/coordination/approval of projects at provincial
level; and monitoring/evaluation arrangements at the center including use of their outputs.
- 39 -



Annex 8.3: Agricultural Extension Sub-Component
A. Introduction
I      The main feature of the extension sub-sector in Zambia is the dominance of MAC. The Ministry
extension operates largely through the Department of Field Services (DFS), although extension -- animal
production and health -- is also practiced by the Department of Research and Specialist Services and, to
some extent, by other technical departments and branches. MAC operates through some 72 District
offices. The interface with farmers takes place in some 1500 camps, staffed by one Camp Extension
Worker (CEW). Due to staffing and logistical problems, many of these, especially, in remote areas, are not
staffed. Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) based in the Districts provide technical support for the camp
staff. MAC currently has close to 2500 extension staff working at all levels.
2.     Government expenditure for agricultural extension is very low. In fact, total government
expenditure for the agriculture sector as a ratio of total government expenditure is one of the lowest in
Africa. The share of the MAC in government expenditure declined from about 11% in 1994 to about 2.5%
in 1999. The shares of other sectors at the same time have been 22, 12, 12,10 and 11% for general
services, defense, education, health and debt services, respectively. With the MAC budget, the allocation
for agricultural extension is roughly 20% including wages, salaries and O&M.
3.     Beginning in the 1980s with an IDA supported National Agricultural Research and Extension
Project (ZAREP), the MAC agricultural extension service expanded rapidly to provide nationwide
coverage. The extension methodology embraced the training and visit system. The service was generally
highly regarded but the perceived success of the service, however, was considerably influenced by the then
policy environment, which resulted in severe market distortions due to subsidized product and input prices.
These distortions encouraged maize production and a heavy use of fertilizer. Traditional food security
crops gave way to hybrid maize even in areas where it was not suited agronomically . Extension and
research focused on increasing crop production, especially maize, through the use of high input technology,
the real cost and economics of which was highly distorted. Since pan-territorial prices prevailed and the
state marketing boards guaranteed both prices and markets, nationwide maize production increased rapidly.
The result of these policies is a lingering "maize psychology" among a majority of smallholders (and to
many extension staff) notwithstanding the negative economic and risk factors in many areas.
4.     Changes in government policy in the early 1990s resulted in increasing fiscal constraints. Due to
high costs, both the subsidies and the extension system, therefore, became unsustainable. These saw the
MAC extension service become increasingly less effective and the proportion of funds available for meeting
operational costs declined steadily as did total government allocations to agriculture. Overall, although
there are exceptions, the MAC extension system as practiced in the majority of districts is having
comparatively little, if any, impact on agricultural output, sustainable rural development and poverty
reduction.
B. The Main Issues for Extension in Zambia
a)     Policy Issues
5.     Government commitment to private sector development and the role of MLAC. Given the need
to accelerate agricultural growth, improve food security, expand exports and reduce poverty, together with
the government's increasing fiscal constraints, a major change is required in the role of non-state sector
- 40 -



extension service providers.
6.     Decentralization and the role of local government.  Decentralization of authority to local
government is an integral part of enhancing rural development effectiveness. Under the decentralization
process rural service providers become accountable to local government and farmer organizations for their
performance. This results in greater responsiveness by service providers to district rural development
priorities. The role of District Councils in monitoring extension service efficiency, including that of MAC,
would be progressively enhanced. A clear commitment to this strategy would be required both by central
government and by MAC.
7.     Rural infrastructure. The poor state of rural infrastructure, especially rural roads, is a major
impediment to more market integration of rural communities. Lack of access especially during the wet
season, seriously affects extension programs and the provision of a wide range of rural services. Travelling
long distances over very poor roads also increases transaction costs for all service providers and for farm
families and would be agribusiness entrepreneurs.
b)     Institutional Issues
8.     MAC restructuring, core functions and service conditions. Given the role proposed for MAC
under the successor program of fostering the expansion of non-state sector extension and the
ever-decreasing govenmment funds, there is an urgent need for MAC to focus its resources more effectively.
The Ministry is over-stretched. It is trying to do too much with too little and consequently not doing it well.
Identification of core functions including those that could be privatized or commercialized wholly or partly
would facilitate more efficiency and effectiveness.
9.     Staff service conditions need to be improved throughout the Ministry. One of the core reasons for
the comparative ineffectiveness of MAC is its inability to recruit and retain highly qualified staff in a
number of key areas such as policy and strategic planning. Moreover, the difficulty in attracting staff to
lower level field positions is increasing. Front line field staff are ultimately the key to the Ministry's
achievement of the sectoral goals. Too many Camp and Block situations are characterized by poor housing,
limited access, the lack of mobility and low salary packages for field staff.
10.    MAC management and operational culture. Due to its perceived inability to achieve results, the
Ministry is becoming increasingly marginalized. Donors and other sector players are seeking other avenues
to channel support to the rural and agricultural sector. MAC comprises well-educated and competent staff,
but their effectiveness is severely constrained by the operating and management system. As a result, there is
a lack of discipline, professionalism and responsiveness.
11.    Strategic planning for extension. Strategic planning is a serious weakness for all MAC programs
including extension. Strategic clarity and focus is lacking. Likewise, there is no link between projects,
program and work action plans with sectoral and sub-sectoral goals. The problem is compounded by
management inefficiency and poor direction. The extension sub-sector lacks a strategic vision. The longer
term development of extension should take place within the framework of a vision. Among other things, the
vision should outline the likely future structure and ownership of extension services within Zambia. It
should also broadly define the future role of the various actors. The comparative advantage and
complementarity of the actors should be reflected in the vision statement.
12.    Chronic under-funding and the resultant misalignment of resources with capacity to deliver.
MAC extension is chronically under-funded. This has resulted in a mismatch between available financial
resources and the capacity to deliver: it is trying to do too much with too little. A rationalization of services
- 41 -



is needed urgently if effectiveness is to be improved.
13.    Weak demand capacity within rural farming communities.    A long history of passive
acceptance of extemal service provider attitudes and practices combined with government and donor
approaches has created a deep-seated dependency psychology among many rural communities, which has
led to disempowerment. Low productivity, low income levels and poverty serve to exacerbate this problem.
The result is an almost nonexistent demand capacity arnong the target communities.
14.    Farmer organizations. The deregulation of the economy and the end to controlled prices for
agricultural products and inputs, witnessed the virtual collapse of the cooperative movement. More
recently, the Govenmment has fostered the formation of some 3000 cooperatives, the overwhelming majority
of which are not functional or self-reliant. This action has only served to perpetuate the dependency
psychology and further erode self-reliance. The result is the virtual absence of strong FOs able to assume
the role of service providers, reduce transaction costs and develop linkages with input suppliers and the
market.
3.     Operational Issues
15.        Extension accountability for performance.  Under the current transfer of technology
extension paradigm the service is supply driven. It responds to higher level directives and decides what
service customers should receive. Too often, there is a lack of responsiveness and accountability for
performance to the real customers, the rural communities. The Participatory Extension Approach (PEA)
now being implemented in some areas will partially remedy this situation. It will not, however,
fundamentally change the line of accountability for performance. Financially empowering communities to
employ the service provider of their choice would reverse the line of accountability and make extension
truly demand driven.
16.       Inadequate response by extension to the changed economic enabling environment. In
general, MAC extension has been slow to adjust the technologies it recommends to the changed institutional
and economic enabling environment. In too many cases the recommendations made to farmers remain
highly "production" oriented without adequate regard to cost-effectiveness and risk factors. Despite the
drastic change in the terms of trade for maize, for example, the high input cost, high-risk technology
continues to be recommended by many extension workers. This reveals a lack of understanding of the effect
economic changes should have on technology recommendations. It also reveals inadequate knowledge of
alternative, lower cost, lower risk technology alternatives.
17.       Inter-sectoral linkages and access to information. Weaknesses in linkages and information
flows lead to inefficiency, duplication and lost learning opportunities. Linkages and coordination between
sectoral stakeholders and between other rural development stakeholders are at best tentative and
inconsistent. Research and extension linkages are, for the most part, incoherent. Large amounts of
information on Zambian agricultural and rural development are available. It is, however, highly fragmented
and not easily accessible. The flow of information from headquarters to the districts and from the districts
to field staff and to other stakeholders, and vice versa, is weak. Subject matter specialists at MAC
headquarters, in the provinces and districts do not have ready access to technical and statistical
information, making it difficult to keep up with technology advances. Coordination and information
exchanges between MAC technical departments and sub-programs are inadequate.
C. New Vision and Strategy for Extension
18.       To overcome these weaknesses, the MAC introduced the Participatory Extension Approach
- 42 -



in selected districts of its operation in 2000. To a greater or lesser extent, the new approach addressed
these issues through a coordinated and integrated program involving a plurality of service providers. It also
aimed to promote the coordination of interventions of other service providers such as health, education and
nutrition, which have a significant impact on rural family well-being and thereby agricultural productivity.
1. The Goal or Long-Term Outcome of the Program
19.        The long-term goal of the new extension program would be sustainable economic growth
leading to poverty reduction and improvedfood security and livelihoodfor ruralfarm families.
2. The Purpose or Immediate Objective
20.        The purpose or immediate objective of the interventions of the new extension program
would be to put in place a more responsive, flexible, demand-driven, efficient and sustainable extension
delivery system.
3. The Outputs/Results
21.        The outputs/results arising from the program interventions would be:
(a) Increased and diversified agricultural output and productivity, improved rural incomes and
enhanced rural family well-being;
(b) A decentralized, more sustainable, demand-driven extension system embracing a plurality of
providers;
(c) Improved coordination and linkages between research and extension and between all relevant rural
service providers;
(d) Enhanced organizational efficiency and effectiveness within MAC;
(e) Increased and diversified agricultural output and productivity, improved rural incomes and
enhanced rural family well-being;
(f) A decentralized, more sustainable, demand-driven extension system embracing a plurality of
providers;
(g) Improved coordination and linkages between research and extension and between all relevant rural
service providers;
(h) Enhanced organizational efficiency and effectiveness within MAC.
4. The Strategies
22.        The following strategies would enable the achievement of these outputs:
*   expanding the role of a plurality of non-state (for the purposes of this paper the terms non-state and
non-government are deemed to include all service providers outside of the government service (local and
central) be they private for profit businesses, private consultants, nongovernment organizations (NGO)
both domestic and international, agribusiness and marketing houses, extension providers) and
progressively reducing the role of MAC as an extension service provider;
*   building functional capacity and generating demand capacity within communities through
empowerment and by facilitating access to financial resources to enable the partial funding of
approved conmuunity action plans;
*   strengthening the decentralization process by piloting the gradual transfer of responsibility for
service provision, including financial management and accountability, to selected District Councils
and FOs;
- 43 -



*   expanding and deepening the people focussed PEA to empower communities and farm families to
define their own development priorities and service requirements;
* strengthening linkages and coordination between state and non-state rural service providers;
* improving the responsiveness of the MAC management and the decision-making process;
* facilitating strategic partnerships between agribusinesses and community-based organizations;
* promoting the development of sustainable, economically viable and risk-minimal technologies in
full partnership with farmers with strong emphasis on natural resource conservation;
*   using monitoring and participatory impact evaluation as a force for change within communities and
within organizations such as MAC.
Annex 8.4: Agricultural Research Component
A. Introduction.
1.     The Republic of Zambia Agricultural Research and Extension Project (ZAREP) was the
forerunner of ASIP and its activities were integrated into ASIP in 1996.  ZAREP was intended to
rationalize the research infrastructure and decentralize the research planning process, making it more
relevant to farmers' needs. The Project supported the formulation of a National Research Action Plan
(NRAP), which outlined the major changes called for in infrastructure and organization.
2.     NRAP established a research enterprise based on three agro-ecological regions largely determined
by the strength of annual rainfall patterns. It ensured a rational distribution of Regional Centers, Research
Stations and subsidiary facilities, closing several sites deemed to be redundant. The research organization
was restructured into a number of Commodity and Specialist Research Teams. Chief Agricultural Research
Officers (CARO) in charge of Regional Centers were given an enhanced role in determining research
priorities and formulating research proposals. Research Extension Liaison Officers were abolished and
Farming Systems Research Teams given the mandate of linking research with extension and farmers.
3.     Key components of the management of research were the establishment of a Research Data
Archive, listing all past trials to the 1950s, and the introduction of a Current Research Management
Information System (INFORM) for planning and costing future research. The Mid-Term Review of
ZAREP recommended the formation of a self financing research trust, the Golden Valley Agricultural
Research Trust (GART). ZAREP and ASIP provided equipment, vehicles and operational funds, while the
Civil Works component provided laboratory and office blocks.
B. Soils & Crop Research Branch. (SCRB)
4.     Agricultural research in Zambia falls under the Department of Research and Specialist Services of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives: Animal Health & Production and Fisheries are also separate
branches within the same department. Agricultural research, therefore, in the context of this report, is soils
and crop research performed within the Soils and Crop Research Branch (SCRB) and the Agricultural
Research Trusts.
5.     The mission of the SCRB is to generate and adapt crop and soil technologies in order to increase
agricultural productivity and diversify production. This includes the development of low cost sustainable
- 44 -



farming systems for all major agro-ecological zones and farrn sizes through the participation of both the
public and private sectors in research activities.
6.     The SCRB, with Mount Makulu as its Central Research Station, comprises four commodity and
discipline based divisions, each in the charge of a Chief Agricultural Research Officer (CARO) and Central
Services (Biometrics, Library, Documentation, Training) under a Principal Agricultural Research Officer
(PARO). Each research division is composed of several research teams, each with a different research
commodity or objective. There are also three designated agro-ecological regions with Regional Research
Centers and Technology Assessment Sites (TAS) for adaptive research. Research in each region is under
the charge of a CARO, but discipline chiefs remain in charge of work done in their disciplines across the
regions.
7.     The overall body in charge of Soils & Crop research planning is the Research Management Team
(RMT) comprising the Deputy Director and 7 CAROs. The principal functions of RMT are:
*   production of annual work plans and budgets;
*   the conduct of planning and regional meetings;
*   participation in regional network meetings;
*   production of quarterly and annual reports; and
*   soliciting funds from donors.
8.     The research planning cycle begins in June/July each year at research stations, where researchers
present the results of their current research and proposals for the following year's work to a varied group of
stakeholders including extension staff, NGOs and farmer groups. These meetings are followed by national
planning meetings in September/October where the fully analyzed results of the past year are presented and
work for the following year proposed. These meetings provide the opportunity for peer review and
discussion as well as comment by regional staff before final decisions are taken on the composition of the
following year's program. The national meetings are attended by a wide audience of research and
extension workers, NGOs, farmers' representatives, university staff and Research Trusts. Finally, in
March/April regional meetings take place in the field to inspect the experiments approved at the previous
year's planning meetings.
9.     To help in the planning of research, two databases, originally developed under ZAREP, are used.
The Research Archive lists details of all research trials carried out since the 1950s. It is intended to help in
identifying gaps in research and preventing repetitions of earlier research. The second database is a Current
Research Management Information System (INFORM) in which all current research is described and
costed.
10.    SCRB's achievements cover new low cost irrigation technologies and conservation tillage
implements (Magoye Ripper) as well as adapted pest control technologies (Larger Grain Borer and
Cassava Green Mite). Since 1995, 54 new crop varieties have been released to farmers in Zambia. These
were: maize (15), sorghum (7), wheat (4), sunflower (3), pearl millet (2), finger millet (1), beans (3),
groundnuts (4), cowpeas (2), cassava (7), pigeon pea (1), cotton (2), sweet potato (3) and vegetables (1).
The Ministry of Agriculture granted Zamseed exclusive rights to all new varieties produced by SCRB, for
which Zamseed was expected to pay royalties. Zamseed took up the new varieties and between 1996 and
2001 sold seed to the value of US$7,796,285 without paying any royalties to SCRB for their share of these
sales. This led to the development of a Seed Policy in 1999 in which it was recommended that Zamseed's
exclusive rights to SCRB varieties be cancelled. Furthermore, with the establishment of commercial seed
firms in Zambia after 1991, it was proposed that Plant Breeders' Rights be established so that SCRB could
benefit from the sale of its varieties. Legislation has been prepared and is ready for submission to
-45-



Parliament.
C. Agricultural Research Trusts.
11.    The Golden Valley Agricultural Research Trust (GART) was established under ZAREP/ASIP. It
comprises three farms: Research Farm (Golden Valley, Chisamba) - 1306 ha; Commercial Farm (Chaloshi)
- 1340 ha; and Livestock Development Center (Butoka) - 9070 ha. GART is governed by an independent
Board of Trustees and SRCB is represented on the Board. GART's research is formulated within four
strategic themes:
*   improvement and promotion of conservation farming;
*   contract research and scientific technical partnerships;
*   development and promotion of smallholder and livestock farming systems; and
*   development of innovative commercial farming.
12.    Out of a total staff of 265, there are 35 designated research staff and 22 administrative staff.
Income is derived principally from commercial farming operations (50%) with 35% coming from donors,
10% generated by contract research and 5% from GRZ through the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives. Commercial farm operations perform a dual function, generating income from produce and
providing demonstrations of optimum farming practice for farmers and extension staff field days.
13.    The Cotton Development Trust was established during ASIP from which it received its initial
funding. It is situated on Magoye TAS and expects to receive between 30-40% of its funding from a levy
on cotton delivered to ginneries. It is anticipated that the remainder of its funding will come from donors
and GRZ with a small proportion (<5%) from contract research. The full establishment of the CDT awaits
the passing of a Cotton Act to legalize the collection of the levy. The Board of Trustees represents all the
principal stakeholders in the cotton industry, which has already agreed in principle on the collection of a
levy for funding research.
D. Links.
14.    Linkages are important to ensure that research is relevant to farmers' needs and is made available
for farmers' use. On the research side, Farming Systems Research teams are mandated to provide links to
farmers and the extension service. For their part, the extension service relies on their Subject Matter
Specialists (SMS) to link extension with the research program. These links work, after a fashion, but the
consensus view of Provincial Agricultural Coordinating Officers (PACO) was that the abolition of
Research Extension Liaison Officers (RELO) had weakened links between research and extension.
15.    Within the research system itself, the need to make research demand-driven and relevant to
farmers' needs has decentralized the process and increased the importance attached to research proposed by
the Regional Centers and their supporting TAS.
16.    The yearly cycle of research program approval now starts with proposals put forward from
Regional Centers, each of which is in the charge of a CARO, who canvasses the views of farmers and
extension agents locally to establish their research needs.
17.    Links between Research Trusts and SRCB are established mainly at two levels. SCRB is
represented on the Board of Trustees of both GART and CDT, and there is reciprocal membership of
planning committees. Research Trust personnel, however, do not attend the SCRB planning meetings.
Another aspect of linkage is the outsourcing of research projects by SCRB with the Research Trusts as
- 46 -



contract research. This enables SCRB to pay for needs research that would otherwise not be done because
SCRB is not equipped to do it.
-47 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Introduction
The Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MAC) organized an ASIP Stakeholder Evaluation
Workshop during the visit of the ICR Mission. The Ministry sent out the invitations and made the
necessary logistical arrangements, with FAO financial assistance, and chaired the Workshop, while the
mission prepared an issues paper. This was circulated before the start of the workshop and was used to
introduce each of the discussion sessions. The six discussion sessions were organized around the following
topics:
A.      Restructured ASIP, What Has Actually Been Achieved, Compared With Its Revised
Performance Objectives?
B.      The Original ASIP Preparation Process: What Lessons Can Be Drawn For Possible Future
Operations?
C.      Implementing Restructured ASIP, What Progress Was Made In Addressing
Agricultural Sector Policy Issues?
D.      How Has ASIP Contributed To Strengthening of Agricultural Technology Generation and
Dissemination?
E.      Rural Investment Fund (RIF) - How Well Is It Doing?
F.      Concluding Issues
A. RESTRUCTURED ASIP, WHAT HAS ACTUALLY BEEN ACHIEVED, COMPARED WITH
ITS REVISED PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES?
Presentation of Issues by Mission (Mr Ephrem Asebe)
Problems identified at mid-term for ASIP indicated a disappointing performance and loss of confidence by
key stakeholders, including:
*      absence of a supportive environment for the implementation of the program;
*      design limitations particularly as related to the program's management structure;
*      adverse effects of a long drawn-out restructuring process; and,
*      reduced agricultural expenditures that threaten the program's sustainability.
It was asked why there was an apparent divergent trend in the total cultivated area, according to the PHS
data available for the last five years.
One speaker thought that the explanation was crop diversification: the figures in Table 2 did not include
cassava and other root crops, whose area had greatly increased. But another speaker said there were serious
problems with the data and questioned their source. Dr Mwale, CDT, said that there had been a significant
shift from maize to cotton in some areas; however, cotton production had not kept pace due to the weather
and a shortage of inputs. Ms Mweetwa doubted the veracity of the aggregate agricultural production data
for the country, since she already discovered serious inconsistencies in the official CSO data for Central
Province. The chairman explained that CSO had done a one-time Agricultural Census of Zambia and
performs annual post-harvest surveys; MAFF draws from these survey data for its statistics on production
but controls neither collection nor analysis of the data and in fact the whole system should be revisited.
- 48 -



A discussion followed about whether there had been a general shift from maize toward traditional crops, as
suggested by one speaker, since at the same time there had apparently been an increase in exports, which
were all nontraditional crops.
Ms Sitwala (PACO-Lusaka) cautioned that while export crops had indeed increased, they were produced
by only a limited number of growers and most smallholders did not participate. She also thought it
inappropriate for commercial growers to have benefited from funds provided under ASIP.
The overall conclusion of this discussion was that it was very difficult to see whether ASIP had made any
difference to Zambia's agricultural production, exports and imports, not only because of data problems but
also because any trends were obscured by huge inter-annual fluctuations for weather or other reasons.
B. THE ORIGINAL ASIP PREPARATION PROCESS: WHAT LESSONS CAN BE DRAWN
FOR POSSIBLE FUTURE OPERATIONS?
Presentation of issues by mission (Mr C.J. Bevan):
I .  Was the preparation process rushed; should it have waited for: a) a clear vision/strategic plan for the
sector b) the reorganization of the MAFF c) the establishment of an effective Financial Management
System?
2.   Was it too innovative/ambitious? Was it realistic to expect a weak ministry to reform its management
practices and procedures, and for it to adopt and adapt to liberalization policies in a matter of
months?
3.   Did it depend too much on individuals rather than institutions, both within MAFF & World Bank?
4.   What evidence was there of real GRZ ownership, and of full commitment to ASIP by other donors?
5.   Were the objectives of ASIP (e.g., household food security, better use of natural resources, income
generation  and  increasing  export  earnings)  sufficiently  linked  to  proposed  ASIP
interventions/investments?
6.   Did the preparation (SAR) reflect a sufficient understanding of Zambia and GRZ procedures and
systems?
7.   Did ASIP documentation (SAR, PIP) adequately spell out GRZIMAFF roles and responsibilities?
Did they for instance indicate how ASIP would assist with decentralization and deconcentration?
8.   Was 'Basket Funding' a realistic mechanism on which to construct ASIP?
9.   Was there sufficient linkage between the Policy Letter in the SAR and the proposed ASIP
interventions?
10. Was the Economic Analysis method proposed in the SAR realistic or too academic?
11.  Were the risks fully evaluated and articulated?
12.  If we were starting the process of preparation now, what would we do differently?
Record of Discussion
Time allowed for ASIP preparation. One speaker thought the ASIP preparation process had definitely
been rushed and should have awaited completion of the restructuring of MAFF, which was by then already
underway. The chair intervened to say that at the beginning of ASIP preparation, around 1993,
restructuring of MAFF (which came out of a larger program for public sector reform) was not yet
envisaged. Mr Nkatiko said that preparation of ASIP had not been at all rushed, and was substantially
completed before MAFF began its restructuring.
Capability of MAFF to undertake ASIP. A MAFF speaker said it was not so much that MAFF was a
-49 -



weak ministry, but that it should have had an independent body to oversee its restructuring. Another (a
PACO) asserted that MAFF's real weakness was that it did not listen to its own people in the provinces.
Role of individuals rather than institutions. A speaker gave the example of the abrupt decision to
privatize veterinary services, which he said had been done to benefit well-placed individuals and had not
been subject to any real consultation process, even within the ministry.
Ownership of ASIP. PACO NW Province doubted that there had been full GRZ or donor ownership of
ASIP. The University of Zambia representative agreed, saying ASIP was imposed on Zambia by the Bank,
and some of the bilateral donors had felt the same. Another questioned how much real consultation on ASIP
had taken place with intended beneficiaries. The chairman, Mr A.K. Banda, commented that some
cooperating partners had other assistance priorities and procedural constraints that prevented them from
fully supporting ASIP.
Relationship of ASIP objectives to proposed interventions. PACO Central Province, Ms Mpeetwa, said
this relationship had been unclear throughout the project's duration. For example, the ultimate beneficiaries
were not empowered to avail themselves of privatized agricultural services (e.g., for animal health),
because they did not have the necessary income or bargaining power. The Secretary of the NAPSF (a local
NGO) said the problem was quite simply the lack of responsiveness of the top to the real problems of the
poor. The WB representative, Mr Mwanakasale, cautioned that the issue of GRZ political ownership had to
be analyzed more finely. The chair agreed, pointing out that while these matters were decided at political
level, many branches of society - including farmers, academics and industry - had been involved.
However, farmers don't generally display 'ownership' of goods or services for which they don't have to
pay.
Adequate understanding by the WB of Zambian and GRZ conditions. There was not time for a full
discussion but the chairman said that perhaps the Bank's understanding had been inadequate.
Due to lack of time other points were left for discussion during the aftemoon session.
C. IMPLEMENTING THE RESTRUCTURED ASIP, WHAT PROGRESS WAS MADE IN
ADDRESSING AGRICULTURAL SECTOR POLICY ISSUES?
Introduction of Issues by Mission (Mr Chris Redfem)
The MTR workshop of June 1998 agreed that, "while the performance of ASIP had been disappointing and
had lost the confidence of most stakeholders", the program could be revitalized and put back on track. The
MTR Report had identified five main issues associated with the design and implementation of ASIP:
1. the need for renewed GRZ commitment to a coherent and consistent sector policy framework;
2. the need to refocus public expenditures for agriculture on a smaller set of functions, sustainably
performed by the public sector;
3.  the need to revisit the institutional and management framework for implementing ASIP, including
strengthening of coordination and consultation structures for and between its private and public
aspects;
4. the need to arrive at a coherent private sector development strategy; and
5. the need to review and upgrade the financial management framework for ASIP.
How well had the restructured ASIP been able to respond to each of these challenges?
- 50 -



Record of Discussion
1. Sector Policy Framework
Dr Hoffman: a draft NAP document was circulated to donors for comment in late 1999 or early 2000,
under Minister Desai; he recalled it looked rather like the ASIP policy framnework: since then, nothing more
had been seen. Could the MAF indicate what had happened with this initiative? The chair said a response
would be forthcoming from the Director of MAC-PCD.
2. Refocusing of Public Expenditure
Mr Kalumba: the assumption of long-term donor funding for certain functions e.g. research proved
unfounded i.e. pledges were not always fulfilled.
Dr Mulenga: privatization policy was decided very suddenly in the livestock sub-sector.
Mr Haachinda: very often, the private sector just wasn't there or ready to take over.
Ms Sitwala: after the MTR, there was no more funding for upgrading of MAF housing at district level, nor
for extension staff vehicles.
Mr Nkatiko: after the MTR, the GRZ said it would withdraw from fertilizer distribution, and consequently
dropped coops in favor of farmer associations; now it was swinging back to coops again. This perpetual
state of flux in policy makes rural development work very difficult, and loses credibility with the farmers.
Mr Mwanakasale: after MTR, WB agreed with GRZ to disburse direct to the districts, to better reflect the
local priorities, even if some other useful but less urgent MAF activities might have to be reduced or hived
off to commercial sources of funding (such as the CDT). This exercise meant that the MAF had to define
its objectives clearly.
A speaker said that the RIF was just such an example: What exactly were its objectives? To be seen to do
something to assist the rural communities, or to help them stand on their own feet?
Another speaker said that ASIP funds were not disbursed directly from MOF to DAC: in fact, they always
transited through MAF headquarters, with resultant overhead costs and delays.
3. Institutional and Management Framework for Implementing ASIP
A speaker said that creation of the ACF had been appreciated by the private sector, especially on the issue
of fertilizer distribution.
Dr Hoffman: he found the DACs also useful, even though at district level comrnmerce was not represented
from the private sector, only small-scale farmers. It would be useful to have representation from traders, if
a true public-private sector dialogue were to take place.
Mr Haachinda: underlined the role of farmer organizations in empowering farmners whose voices would
otherwise not be heard.
- 51 -



Another speaker suggested that many fanner organizations were formed only in order to have access to
subsidized inputs.
Mr Nkatiko: mentioned that there were also commodity-based growers' associations, such as those for
tobacco and coffee (also cotton), which played a role.
Ms Sitwala: the role of farmers' organizations was a very changeable one in Zambia, reflecting frequent
shifts in government policy. MAC was now working with farmer clubs.
Dr Hoffman: how it all worked was very dependent on local conditions; however, one could generalize that
whenever an organization was imposed from outside, such as a coop for getting fertilizer or a farmers
group for getting a RIF project, then it was almost certainly going to be unsustainable.
4. Private Sector Development Strategy
It was felt that this topic had already been adequately discussed.
5. Financial Management Framework for Implementing ASIP
Mr Nkatiko: after MTR things had improved but there were still delays in getting GRZ counterpart
funding. Also, funding was not always provided according to the approved budgets: for example, the RIF
would get funding when other programs did not.
Dr Mwale: the innovation of monthly disbursements had been unrealistic and thrown everything out of
order (Government runs a cash budget and could not adopt quarterly releases as originally envisaged,
although there were times this was complied with) : they should have kept the old system of quarterly
release of funds, which worked better. He also stressed the need for government to adopt more flexible
financial procedures if public-private partnerships such as CDT were to be workable.
The chairman pointed out the importance of ensuring that financial and procurement procedures were
compatible, since procurement was crucial for the implementation of major programs such as ASIP.
Another speaker said the FMU could not be blamed for all the financial management problems that had
been experienced: some were caused from outside (such as by the MOF), others by an over-ambitious
expectation of GRZ counterpart funding capacity.
D. HOW HAS ASIP CONTRIBUTED TO STRENGTHENING OF AGRICULTURAL
TECHNOLOGY GENERATION AND DISSEMINATION?
1. Research (Facilitator: Mr D.C.M. Corbett)
How has ASIP contributed to improved research output? Are research facilities better as a result of
ASIP?
Mr Nkotiko (PACO, Southern Province) thought that facilities were not generally better as a result of
ASIP. Dr. Mwale (Director, CDT) thought there had been some isolated improvements, but not overall.
Some offices and houses had been provided and field layouts improved. Mr Seshekanu (PACO, Eastem
Province) was of the view that the system managed to maintain what was there with slight improvement.
Mr Nkotiko stated that emphasis on some regional centers had led to some improvement in crop research
infrastructure, but livestock research had died. Ms Mweetwa (PACO, Central) thought that there had been
some structural improvement and Mr Hachiinda (National Association for Peasants and Smallholder
- 52 -



Farmers) stated that there was need for much more improvement in facilities.
Is research planning improved as a result of ASIP? And does research under ASIP meet farmers'
needs better?
These were taken together. Mr Seshekanu pointed out that for the first time, under ASIP, farmers were
involved in the research planning process. Mr Hachiinda said that farmers' needs were not being met but
Mr Nkotiko differed, and stated that there was an improved mechanism for planning research, which
addressed farmers' needs and worked through regional research. Mr Hachiinda felt that there were too few
research stations.
Does Research Under ASIP Feed into Regional Programs of Research?
Mr Hachiinda said that there were problems in terms of priorities and this was reflected in the regional
research programs. Mr Kaluba (PACO, Luapula) noted that regional research programs were based on the
observed comparative advantage for each site, which meant that some research programs relevant to local
farmers might not be addressed in the nearest regional research program.
Does Research Funding Meet Operational Needs?
The unanimous view was that it did not.
Has ASIP Contributed to Better Staffing of Research?
Dr Mwale stated that very little long-term training was undertaken in ASIP, so there was no improvement
in staff quality. Mrs Sitwala (PACO, Lusaka) thought that in this respect ASIP had done more harm than
good. Mr Nkotiko stated that staffing of research was affected by the Cabinet Office imposition of a freeze,
which prevented replacement of staff lost for any reason. Mrs Sitwala noted that staff were leaving for
better-paid jobs in the private sector.
Has ASIP Led to More Autonomy for Agricultural Research?
Mr Kalumba stated that research needed to be demand driven, better integrated, but not necessarily
autonomous. Mrs Sitwala said that research needed Government support so could not be autonomous. In
clarification, Mr Bevan pointed out that there was a view in some countries that research should be
independent of the funding Ministry. There was felt to be a need for freedom from domination by officers
of the responsible Ministry, not politicians, so that decisions relating to research could be made
independently by the research organization. Dr Mwale stated that the research sector remained under the
Ministry of Agriculture so there was no change in autonomy. Mr Mulumba pointed out that increased
autonomy had not been an ASIP goal. Mr Seshekanu felt that the research planning process introduced
under ASIP demonstrated increased autonomy. Dr Mwale said that an autonomous research body would
have its own rules and procedures: research workers remained subject to the Government General Orders
so were not autonomous.
Has Establishment of Research Trusts under ASIP Contributed to:
*      Improved research overall?
*      Improved research dissemination?
*      More relevant research?
- 53 -



*      Effective coordination of research at all levels?
These questions were taken as one because of shortage of time.
Mr Nkotiko stated that the Cotton Development Trust (CDT) was relatively new and had not received as
much attention as the longer established Golden Valley Agricultural Research Trust (GART). He felt that
GART had moved away from smallholder needs and instanced the cost of livestock produced for sale to
farmers, which was out of the financial reach of smallholders. CDT had not yet finalized its financing
arrangements and it was still too new to express an opinion on it. Dr Mwale explained that CDT had only
been established for two seasons and had received little funding so far. The cotton research program was
restricted and was expanding going out to farmers with an extension and training program deriving from
the program on agronomy and breeding.
Has ASIP Improved Linkages:
*   Between central research programs and regional research?
*   From research to extension?
Both questions were taken together. Dr Mwale believed that new procedures developed during ASIP had
led to better links between central and regional research, with research needs of the regional centers
achieving more importance. On research/extension links, Ms Mweetwa believed that in general links were
now not so good with the loss of the fornal links that operated through Research/Extension Liaison
Officers. Mr Chivunda (MACP FS-Extension) agreed that there was now no functional liaison.
2. Participatory Extension Approach (Facilitator: Mr Charles Bevan)
*      Have all PACOs and DACOs received training in the PEA; and was the training provided
sufficient?
*      How easy/practical was it to retrain staff in PEA?
*      What additional skills do field staff need to be able to undertake problem census/problem
solving discussions with farmer groups?
*      Is PEA subject to the same logistical constraints (transport and communications) as other
extension approaches?
*      What are optimal farmer group: field agent ratios for effective implementation of the PEA?
*      What back up support do field agents need from DACOs and PACOs?
*      Is it possible to monitor & evaluate achievements of PEA, if so how?
Record of Discussion
Support for PEA: a speaker clarified that not all PACO/DACO had received PEA training under the
IDA-funded ASIP: PACO had only received a short awareness training course, and the DACO only in four
ASIP pilot provinces. In the Southem Province they had pioneered the introduction of PEA with help from
other donor-finded projects (e.g. GTZ and IFAD). In the NW Province they had piloted PEA in 3 out of 7
districts with non-IDA resources. In Luapula, PEA training had been provided under a Finnish project.
Speakers were concemed that IDA should not claim all the credit for introduction of PEA, which had been
piloted in Zambia with assistance of other agencies.
Training priorities for PEA: staff training presented some problems at first, and some difficulties persist
- 54 -



in training staff in communications skills. Training is also quite costly.
Staff also need special training in such fields as cooperative establishment and management, marketing and
simple business skills like book-keeping.
PEA is subject to the same basic constraints of logistics, communications, staff technical skill and
dedication as any other extension system.
Each field agent can realistically handle up to 20 farmer groups, each of about 30 farmers.
Field agents need to be supported by mobile DACOs.
A major weakness of PEA to date has been the failure of Agricultural Training Colleges to adjust curricula
to the requirements of the PEA system.
It is possible, in principle, to monitor PEA by asking farmers to complete a simple M&E questionnaire
forn for their group.
E. RURAL INVESTMENT FUND (RIF) - HOW WELL IS IT DOING?
Introduction of issues by mission (Mr Chris Redfem)
Utilization and Sustainability Issues. A recent evaluation by consultants, while recognizing that the
achievements of RIF have been impressive, points to a problem of under-utilization of some of the
infrastructure financed by RIF, such as dams, storage sheds and dip-tanks. The mission has seen some
evidence of this phenomenon in its short field visit. The reasons no doubt vary, but a view exists that a sort
of dependency syndrome has been created among Zambian villagers, which accentuates difficulties in
obtaining their contribution to start-up of revenue-earning and O&M of community infrastructure
subprojects of the RIF. This possibly has something to do with the consultants' finding that "The RIF
experience has exposed a major weakness of the group approach - the difficulties in managing production
activities". Do participants share this diagnosis and, if so, what would they prescribe in order to improve
the long-term benefits of RIF sub-projects and thus make the RIF as a whole more sustainable?
Technical design of subprojects: are some of the utilization problems already identified related to
technical design deficiencies and, if so, how could these be avoided or minimized in future?
Equity and gender objectives: we understand these were discussed during the MTR and subsequently, but
do RIF stakeholders feel satisfied that these are now being satisfactorily addressed?
Relationship with other financing mechanisms: how does or should the RIF work with other sources of
funding for small-scale rural infrastructure, such as ZAMSIF and the new micro-credit project? (A possible
related question is whether the present RIF structure has the capacity to work with a variety of funding
sources and requirements, but that probably goes beyond our own TOR).
Decentralization and transparency issues: how vulnerable is the RIF to potential misdirection of its
funding from various quarters, and is its present structure and organization adequately capable of
withstanding such pressures?
Record of Discussion
- 55 -



Mr Haachinda: Complementarities were not adequately taken account of in project design: poor utilization
of RIF projects may simply reflect the failure of other components of the ASIP program. He also thought
the MAF might be sitting on some RIF supplementary funds agreed by the WB.
Dr Mwale: RIF projects should be 'demand-driven'; but beneficiaries should also be encouraged to
constitute their own funds.
Ms Mweetwa: There is a need for better pre-project sensitization, so that people can know what to expect
from RIF and what is expected of them: for example, in the case of dip-tanks they need to be told up-front
who is responsible for paying for purchase of the chemicals. They can easily be confused by misleading
information on things like this.
Mr Nkatiko: RIF would have benefited from an earlier introduction of training in PEA, which includes
essential tools such as PRA needed for facilitating a participatory needs assessment and project selection:
in the absence of PEA the start-up of RIF was premature and the selection of some inappropriate projects
inevitable.
Follow-up activity after project construction should not necessarily be done by RIF staff: in case of dams,
for example, it should be done by staff of the Irrigation Branch.
Mr Kalumba: the context in which RIF projects were prepared was flawed by a misconception about
ASIP: expectations were created of huge increases in crop production, requiring investment in additional
on-farm storage, which did not materialize and led to misplaced investment.
Dr Hoffman: RIF projects have not in general been properly appraised: for example, group capability is
not looked at from a social point of view to judge if capable of supporting proposed agricultural production
projects (which are often inconsistent with traditional organization in Zambia). The DACs have failed in
this role, which they should perform a key role, because they are afraid to go against the MAF who
dominate the appraisal process. This problem continues.
On the distinction between social infrastructure and revenue-generating projects, GTZ has found the same
experience with the RIF-type project it has started in the Southem Province, where most requests are for
the latter type of project but quite a lot do not perform to maximum potential. For example, many dams
have been built but remain unutilized for irrigation, which makes them uneconomic.
TSB often don't talk with other SMS about relevant technical aspects, so no one takes care of O&M work.
As a result, many community dams become 'RIF dams', which was not, of course, the intention.
Mr Chipulu: said he was aware of the limitations of the existing RIF and accepted most of what had been
said as true. He agreed that the social infrastructure type of project like feeder roads and bridges generally
presented fewer problems of utilization and sustainability than the income-earning projects managed by
groups. As RIF coordinator he needed clear policy guidance from the RIF Steering Committee about
various issues, such as whether the RIF should provide supplementary project financing to take care of
working capital for income-eaming projects, normally considered the responsibility of the project
beneficiaries. It had been suggested that it could be helpful if RIF provides beneficiaries in advance with
'business models' of such projects, but policy guidance was still needed.
- 56 -



Dr Mulenga: suggested that in some cases the problem of under-utilization of facilities funded by RIF may
be because they don't really reflect the felt needs of the community concerned but of a locally influential
person. The pre-project sensitization and awareness process needed strengthening in order to minimize this
risk.
Ms Sitwala: said she shared the concern over Point 1. One reason why it has become a problem is that the
ASIP component for rural finance development never got off the ground and this has seriously affected the
sustainability of some RIF projects.
Mr. Kalumba: the 'demand-driven' nature of RIF projects often detracts from their technical or economic
soundness: there is not adequate technical vetting or follow-up of the proposals by MAF staff. Chairman
pointed out inconsistency of this remark with that of the GTZ participant who said that MAF dominates the
appraisal process.
Dr Hoffman: responded that the DPC should at the least be involved in the planning and appraisal process
of RIF projects, in order to bolster their technical soundness.
Mr Sishekanu: Eastern province has a farmer-driven credit facility funded by ADF, and operated through
a commercial bank, with MAF doing farmer training. He would like it to link with RIF.
Mr Nkatiko: Southem province has two similar funds, the Community Development Fund (CDC) for
community infrastructure and the Rural Development Fund (GTZ-RDF) for income-generating projects.
They are working quite well and missions interested in RIF should come and have a look at them.
F. CONCLUDING ISSUES
Presentation of Issues by the Mission (Mr Charles Bevan)
I .    Were the preconditions and guiding principles necessary for successful implementation of ASIP in
place?
2.     Based on the result summarized above, what lessons can be drawn for future design of agriculture
sector projects/programs conceming:
a.     The policy framework;
b.     The pre-conditions;
c.     The guiding principles outlined above?
3.     Can the pattem of resource allocation indicated above lead to sustainable impact?
4.     Given the national scope of ASIP, did the resources allocated meet the minimum threshold level
necessary to have impact on the ground?
5.     Did the mid-term review address all the essential issues for the way forward?
6.     In what respect do we have progress post-mid-term? What must be done in future design of
projects?
Record of Discussion
A shortage of time meant that the discussion concentrated on the last-listed issue, no. 6.
Ownership. Participants agreed that strong ownership of the program was vital, and this could best be
demonstrated by Government committing and making available its own resources. Furthemmore, at the
- 57 -



preparation stage the amount of the GRZ contribution should be realistically assessed.
Local circumstances. There was general agreement that there should be full consultation at the preparation
stage of all local stakeholders, and that ASIP design should have better reflected Zarnbian circumstances
and conditions.
Implementation. One participant commnented on the lack of an implementation plan for ASIP, and the
frequent swings in Govemment policy with regard to fertilizer importation and distribution that severely
inhibited ASIP implementation.
Evaluating the results. A speaker said it was very difficult to assess ASIP properly because, as discussed
in session A, the statistical database for agriculture was so weak. The MAFF should take ownership of it
once more and make a better job.
- 58 -



LIST OF PARTICIPANTS
Mr. A.K. Banda     Director, MAC-PCD (chairman)
Mr. Mulumba        MAC-PSU (deputy chairman)
Mr. Chivunda       MAC-FS-Extension
Mr. Chipulu        MAC-RIF Coordinator
Mr. Martin Liywalii  MAC-PPB (Workshop Organizer)
Mr. Sikaona        MAC-PPB (Assistant Organizer)
Dr. Nyirenda       MAC-Solwezi
Ms. Mweetwa        MAC-Central, Kabwe
Dr. Mulenga        MAC-Copperbelt, Ndola
Mr. Kalumnba       MAC-Luapula, Mansa
Mr. Nkatiko        MAC-Southern, Choma
Mr. Sishekanu      MAC-Eastern, Chipata
Ms. Sitwala              MAC-Lusaka Province
Dr. Mwale                Cotton Development Trust
Mr. Mike Tembo     MOFNP
Dr. Maimbo         University of Zambia
Dr. R. Hoffman     GTZ-ASSP, Choma, Southern Province RDP
Ms. Liselotte Marohn GTZ-ASSP, Choma, Southern Province RDP
Mr. A. Mwanakasale World Bank, Lusaka Office
Mr. Haachinda      National Association for Zambian Peasants & Small-Scale Farmers
Mission Members:
Mr. Charles Bevan  Agronomist/Extension Specialist (FAO-CP, Mission Leader)
Dr. DCM Corbett    Ag. Research Specialist (Consultant)
Mr. Chris Redfern  Ag. Policy & Institutions Specialist (Consultant)
Mr. Efrem Asebe    Project Economist (Consultant)
- 59 -






MAP SECTION






22'                     24'    Z A M B I A     Yt                                                           23'            $             _ _. - r, ............. u 92qengena/te  3  ........ IBRD 26328
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM                                \   /K       9    R'\      *&TA      N   Z  A   N   I A
NAT ONAL PARKS                    /
*  REGONALSTATICONS              -   MAIN ROADS                    -7     F   KPA      Li          ok   '
R RESEARCH STATKINS                  RAILWAYS                                                     A   A 5              lAJyn
O  TECHNOLOGYXASSESSMENT SITES    4  INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT          ,0
GOLDEN VAULEY AGRICULTURE RESEARCH TRUST  +  AIRFIELDS
RISERS
SWAMPS                                        MP,
  NATIONAL CAPITAL                *       BW
f PROVINCE CAPITALS                      k             MISA F
N                                         -  -  DIYTRICT BOUNDARIES DIwTR C  B           L
- PROVINCF AOIINDAR FS                               'N
INTERNAIIONAL BOUNDARIES                  L N   0   R  T H        A R  N  0
ECOLOGICAL BOUNDARIES
A   N  GC            0\                                                                               )      C Hbm  (A
IA .;/     +                  A    A      I                                  S- R.j  E                             > U0 H A W   A
24' /5~~""BSTSLNANAL  NAN  ____~MA
>\7 5 A 4.ITR 1''
i +,-g tE''S,'R,& '0~~ IJ N G-  r
E-                                            Sowz         H          E KI - |MBA                         B                                  \ E- 
A  N  G  O  L A   '~~~~~~~~>  _   ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ MUA                 u I, wlul-' K| 
Zy A M   IB |              A                          t~5O; n oRea . h .u bU@I  Y                                      A T A 
3 22 z ,_ EOTSWANA ro/oes 2,8 3,Dv I                                                                                _ fCOe9E9.









IMAGING
Report No.:         24444
Type:     ICR



