Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13518-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
MARCH 13, 1995
Southern Africa Department
Agriculture and Environment Division



CURREN'CY EQUIVALENTS
Currency tJnit:   Zambiani Kwacha (ZK)
ZK1LO    =       US$(0014
US$1.((   =      ZK700
FISCAL YEAR
January I - D)ecember 31
WEIGIITS AND MIEASURES
Metric Svstemi
ABB3REVIATIONS AND ACRONYNIS
ADF              -    African Developimient Funid
ADP              -    Animal Draft lPower
AFB)B            -    African Developmiienit Bank
ASIP             -    Agricultural Sector Investment Plrogram
ASPA             -    Agricultural Sector l'erforimianice Analysis
ASSC             -    Agricultural Sector Steering Comimlittee
BOZ              -    Bank of Zambia
C. l F.              Cost, Insurance, an(d Freight
CPPR             -    Countrv Portfolio Performance Review
CSO              -    Central Statistical Oft'ice
Ct.ISA           -    Credit UnJioni and Savings Association
ElJ              -    European Unioni
FINNIDA          -    Finnishl International Development Agency
GART             -    Golden Valley Agricultuiral Research Trust
GRZ              -    Goverinimlent of the Republic of' Zambia
GTZ              -    Deutsche Geselilschaft fur 'I'echnische Zusammenarbeit GmbH
IBRD             -    Interinational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB              -    International Competitive Biddinlg
IDA              -    Interinationial Development Association
IFAD             -    Internationial Fund for Agricultural Development
INI)ECO          -    Industrial Development Cooperation
JICA             -    Japaan International Cooperation Agency
Kl`W             -    Kreditanstalt f'ir Wiederaufhau
LCB              -    ILocal Competitive Bidding
MAFF             -    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
M& E             -    Monitoring and EIvaluation
MOL              -    Ministry of Lands
MMD              -    Movement for Multi-Party Democracy
Nl'AI'           -    National E:nvironmnental Action Plan
NGO              -    Nongovernmental Organizationl
NORAD            -    Norwegian Agency for Development
NRAP             -    National Research Action Plan
PMEU             -    Program Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
SA               -    Special Accounit
SIDA             -    Swedish Internationial Development Agency
SOF              -    Statement of Expeniditure
SMS              -    Subject Matter Specialist
T&V              -    Traininig anid Visit (extensioni maniagemiient system)
UNDP             -    United Nations D)evelopment Programme
USAID            -    U.S. Agency for International Development
ZCCM             -    Zambiani Consolidated Copper Mines
ZCF              -    Zambhian Cooperative Federation



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Table of Contents
CREDIT  AND  PROGRAM   SUMMARY    .................................   i
1.  BACKGROUND    .............................................                                                              1
A.  Introduction   ............................................                                                       I
B.  Economywide context  ......................................    2
C.  The potential for growth .....................................    6
D.  Development constraints and strategy   ............................    8
E.  Donor assistance strategy   ....................................                                                  9
F.  Program  performance and lessons learned  ..........................    9
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM ................  10
A. Concept  ...............................................   10
B.  Rationale and objectives  .....................................   11
C.  Summary description  .......................................   11
D.  Detailed description   .......................................    14
E. Costs estimates ............... 21
F. Financing ............... 24
G. Procurement ............... 27
H. Disbursement ............... 29
III. IMPLEMENTATION ................                                          ..................... 31
A. Management and organization   .................................  31
B.  Monitoring, evaluation, and beneficiary assessment  ....................   34
C.  Accounting, auditing, and reporting requirements  .....................   35
D.  Program  supervision  .               ......................................   37
IV.    BENEFITS  AND  RISKS                   ..................                    ....................   37
A.  Benefit   ...............................................   37
B.  Environmental sustainability   ..................................   38
C.  Risks   ...............................................                                                         39
V. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION ....... ......... 40
A.  Assurances obtained at negotiation   ..............................   40
B.  Condition of effectiveness  ....................................   41
C. Condition of disbursement .                       ..................................  41
D.  Recommendation   .              ........................................   41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Zambia in June/July 1994. The mission comprised Messrs/Mmes.
N. Okidegbe, Senior Financial Analyst (Mission Leader); C. Helman, Special Advisor on Sector Lending; S. Bunyasi, Sr. Agricultural Economist;
M. Macklin, Sr. Agriculturalist; R. Ranasinghe, Financial Analyst; 1. Shuker, Economist; R. Noronha, Sr. Land Use Specialist; V. Scarborough,
Agricultural Economist; S. Riddle, Planning & Budgeting Specialist; J. Makanda, Financial Mgt. Specialist; V. Bindlish, Economist; T. Venn,
Disbursement Officer; A. Fields, Procurement Officer; H. Binswanger, Sr. Advisor (Lead Reviewer/Advisor); A. Spurling, Pr. Agriculturalist
and A. Abramovich, Sr. Economist (Peer Reviewers); G. Nkojo, Resident Rep.; and I. Moreithi, Sr. Economist. Ms. P. Mehrdadi provided
secretarial support in the preparation of the report. Mr. J. P. Chausse and Ms. K. Marshall are the managing Acting Division Chief and the
Denarnrnent Director respectively for the operation.



ANNEXES
1.   Letter of Agricultural Sector Development Policy   .......................  42
2.   Detailed Cost Tables  .........................................  51
3.   MAFF Organizational Chart .                  ....................................   55
4.   Outline of Program  Implementation Manual and Schedule   ..................   56
5.   Financial Management Unit  ............                        .........................   58
6.   Supervision Plan  . ...........................................   65
7.   Monitoring and Evaluation   .                ....................................   67
8. Disbursement Schedule ......................................... 70
9. Economic Analysis ........................................... 72
10.  Capacity Building   .         ..........................................   79
11.  Environmental Mitigation Statement  ................................   81
12. The Agricultural Sector ......................................... 83
Documents in program files
Subsector financing proposals on:
Extension and Information
Agricultural Research
Animal Production and Health
Irrigation
Farm Power and Mechanization
Marketing and Trade
Standards
New Products Development
Agricultural Training
Fisheries
Policy and Planning
Marketing and Trade (Food Security Agency)
Rural Investment Fund



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                       Government of the Republic of Zambia.
Implementing agencies:          Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) and
Ministry of Lands (MOL).
Beneficiaries:                  Bank of Zambia, commercial banks and financial institutions,
private agribusiness enterprises, smallholder and commercial
farmers.
Poverty category:               Program of targeted interventions. The research and extension
subprograms of the ASIP would focus on improving food
security and reducing poverty among rural households through
the promotion of affordable production technologies.  In
addition, through increased crop production and diversification,
the ASIP is expected to improve the incomes of women
farmers, who are the main providers for their families.
Amount:                         SDR 41.2 million (US$60.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                          40 years.
Commitment fee:            .   0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Net present value:              Not applicable. Project design based on cost-effectiveness.
SAR:                            13518-ZA.
Map:                            IBRD 26328.






ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1    The Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) described in this report is among the
first in a new generation of investment operations that follow what is sometimes called an
integrated sector approach. This approach, which aims at improving the effectiveness of public
expenditures, has the following main characteristics (see para 2.1):
*     It covers all or most of the sector.
*     It is prepared by local stakeholders (the government, the private sector, and
nongovernmental organizations).
*     It is supported by all donors active in the sector.
*     It minimizes reliance on international long-term consultants.
*     It involves common implementation arrangements.
1.2    The ASIP was initiated in Zambia in response to the strong dissatisfaction of both the
Government and donors with the country's low agricultural growth rates. The low growth has
been attributed to several causes. Past government policies were biased against agriculture and
led to capital and labor disinvestment in the sector.  The parallel management structures
established for donor-supported projects and the heavy use of foreign consultants have hindered
domestic capacity building. Moreover, development projects have been largely driven by donors,
with the Government taking a responding rather than an initiating role. Considerable private
investment at the farm level to rehabilitate capital stocks is needed to stimulate productivity and
income growth. And this private investment needs to be complemented by public investment in
key support services and rural infrastructure to improve and sustain the sector's supply response
in the long-run. These issues are beginning to be addressed. The Government is rectifying policy
weaknesses, and donors have agreed to greater collaboration. Through the ASIP, they will
continue to tackle these issues.



- 2 -
Box I Why a sector approach in Zambia 's agriculture?
Before preparation of the ASIP started in October 1992, there were about 180 donor-
financed projects in Zambia's agricultural sector.  Most had a separate, parallel
management structure, involved little if any sense of local ownership, and relied extensively
on expatriate consultants. The Government had only partial knowledge of these projects,
their costs, and their accomplishments. The donor-financed salaries of project staff were
higher than government salaries and created frictions. Moreover, the government had to
dedicate much of its planning and management capacity to satisfying donors' varied
requirements; that left its staff little time to develop their own initiatives or to improve
efficiency. To remedy this situation, the Government urged a gradual phasing out of the
existing project structures and encouraged closer collaboration among donors, to make aid
more efficient. The Government took steps to increase Zambian ownership of development
initiatives. In response, the Bank initiated consultations with donors that led to a consensus
on the need for an integrated sector approach. As the first step toward adopting this
approach, the Government appointed a Zambian task force, drawing from both the public
and the private sectors, to prepare the ASIP.
1.3    With copper and other minerals accounting for more than 90 percent of its foreign
exchange earnings, Zambia faces an urgent but daunting need to develop altemative exports to
lessen its vulnerability to unfavorable changes in the copper market. Its agricultural sector has
the potential to become a major source of foreign exchange eamings. Zambia's underutilized base
of renewable natural resources is more than adequate to support rapid growth in agricultural
production in the shortrun and to ensure the sustainability of agricultural income and exports in
the longrun. About three-quarters of a million hectares of farnland in Zambia are underutilized
or abandoned, and more than 90 percent of irrigable land is not irrigated. Agricultural sector
characteristics and institutions are discussed in annex 12.
B. Economywide context
1.4   The ASIP represents a major commitment by the World Bank and other participating
donors in support of an initiative by the Government to comprehensively restructure the public
sector's role in Zambian agriculture. Therefore, even though the ASIP is not a policy-based
structural adjustment credit, it is important to analyze the economywide context of the program.
This analysis below assesses:
*   Macroeconomic framework.
*   The role of agriculture in the economy.
*   Fiscal stability and the fiscal affordability of the program.
*   Private investment in agriculture.
1.5    Macroeconomic framework. Since Independence in 1964, Zambia relied very heavily
upon planning and administrative controls to manage the economy. The public sector, especially
parastatal enterprises, embarked on investments aimed at generating economic growth and
employment while international borrowings were used to finance public sector investments



- 3 -
(frequently unproductive) and to support unsustainable levels of consumption. The economy's
performance was also adversely affected throughout this period by its heavy dependence on copper
whose real prices and production were declining, the latter as a result of insufficient investment
to increase productivity and output. By late 1991, Zambia was suffering from high external debt
burden (over US$7 billion), an inefficient and highly protected parastatal sector that dominated
the economy, rapid declines in per capita income, increases in poverty, and unwillingness on the
part of Government to take and hold to the policy decisions necessary to change the course of the
economy. The election of the opposition party, the Movement for Multiparty Democracy (MMD)
in November 1991, was seen as an overwhelming endorsement of MMD's economic reform
program whose objectives are to restore internal and external economic stability, change the way
the economy is managed, get the Government and parastatals out of business activity, promote
the private sector, and focus Government's efforts on the creation of a positive enabling
environment for private-sector business and the provision of the necessary infrastructure and
social services.
1.6    Since early 1992, Zambia's overall policy performance has been mixed, even though the
implementation of the policy reform agenda has remained on course. The direction of policy has
remained clear, and the progress has been steady. The pace of liberalization and decontrol has
been good. In particular, Zambia's macroeconomic performance in terms of fiscal balance and
money supply growth has been strong. As a result, inflation declined from an average annual rate
of over 100 percent in the previous four years to an annual rate of 22 percent in the last half of
1994. Interest rates have also declined (from over 200 percent in April to about 25 percent in
December 1994), and this has strengthened the Government's ability to maintain budget discipline
and to control the deficit. The Government has decontrolled prices of all agricultural products
and inputs, eliminated exchange rate restrictions, and liberalized export and import trade, and it
completed several major privatizations in 1994. However, there are some policy fronts where
progress has been less than satisfactory. The Government needs to do more in policy reforms
related to parastatals, the financial sector, the civil service, the land market, and public sector
investment.  It also needs to accelerate the privatization program.  The 1994-96 Policy
Framework Paper (PFP), scheduled for Board consideration in April, spells out the Government's
policy reform  agenda.  To complement the PFP, specific agricultural sector policy and
institutional reforms that are required for further agricultural growth are contained in the
Government's Letter of the Agricultural Sector Development Policy (see annex 1). The main
areas of reform include additional market liberalization, privatization of agricultural parastatals,
land use and tenure, and elimination of agricultural credit subsidies.
1.7    Despite significant progress on policy reform, the Zambian economy is still in a deep
recession. Total GDP is estimated to have declined by 7.5 percent in 1994, partly because of a
sharp drop in maize output, but also because of declines in copper output and manufacturing. In
part, this is an inevitable result of the tight monetary policies required to fight inflation. In
addition to these aggregate demand and financial sector problems, individual real sectors have had
difficulties. Agricultural growth was impeded by poor rains. Manufacturing still suffers from
transitional tax and tariff anomalies, and copper mining output has suffered from technical
problems at the smelters.  Continued strong fiscal performance and reduced inflationary
expectations should permit increased liquidity in the financial sector in 1995. With this and the
measures being taken to deal with tax and tariff anomalies, to attract private sector capital and
management into copper mining, and to strengthen financial institutions, private investment should
begin to recover in 1995, leading to a more vigorous supply response and economic growth.



- 4 -
1.8     Zambia's ability to generate economic growth and new  jobs will depend on
Government's continued progress on a broad policy front. This includes: controlling inflation on
a sustained basis; reducing the crowding out effect on investment in the private sector by reducing
public sector claims on available resources; adjusting the trade and tariff regime to encourage
efficient production; privatizing the parastatal sector; restructuring - and in some instances
privatizing - the institutions mobilizing and allocating term resources, such as insurance companies
and pension funds; reforming mining sector policies and investment incentives; and privatizing
ZCCM and removing barriers to private sector investment in copper mining.
1.9     The role of agriculture in the economy.  Agriculture figures large in Zambia's
economy and is expected to play a critical role in its growth and restructuring even though the
agricultural growth rates averaged 2.2. percent a year between 1965 and 1991, less than the
population growth rate of 3.2 percent a year. This was largely because of the inappropriate
government policies of the past (see para 1.6 and annex 1). The high inflation rates and the
associated interest rates discouraged investments in agriculture while price controls of agricultural
outputs resulted in adverse terms of trade. With improved agriculture sector policies, Zambia
could greatly expand agricultural production. Productivity in the smallholder subsector which is
considerably below the production frontier and the genetic potential of the crop varieties could
be increased by 94 percent for maize and 85 percent for soybean (see table 2). Although
agriculture accounts for only 18 percent of gross domestic product (GDP), this small share belies
the extent to which Zambia depends on the sector. About 60 percent of the population depends
on agriculture for livelihood. Agriculture employs about 67 percent of the labor force and
remains the main source of income and employment for rural women. The increase in income
of rural women will result in poverty reduction of the rural population. Besides, it will continue
to provide most new jobs for at least the next decade, even with higher industrial growth rates,
because of the country's small industrial base and declining mineral resources. With the favorable
environment and dwindling mineral resources, agriculture is expected to become an increasingly
important source of foreign exchange. In 1993 agriculture was the second major earner of foreign
exchange for Zambia's non-traditional export with total foreign exchange earning of US$33.7
million. Agricultural issues have also figured prominently in the country's fiscal problems:
subsidies to the sector averaged about 3 percent of GDP during 1983-91. These subsidies have
been significantly reduced, and are being gradually phased-out.
1.10    Fiscal stability and the fiscal affordability of the program. To succeed, an integrated
sector program such as the ASIP must be implemented in a fiscally stable environment and it
should be affordable within the government's budget. Zambia's macroeconomic stability depends
primarily on the Government's ability to control inflation, since exchange and interest rates are
market-determined and tend to closely follow the domestic inflation rate. In turn, controlling
inflation will depend on controlling the money supply and hence on containing the fiscal deficit.
The Government has had a good record on fiscal control in the past three years with the notable
exception of the first half of 1993.  More than 18 months of solid fiscal and monetary
performance have led to sharp deceleration of inflation, from a triple-digit rate to less than 20
percent in the second half 1994. Despite the effective fiscal control, reducing inflation took time
because expectations of continuing inflation made it more difficult to bring consumer prices and
real interest rates under control.
1.11   The available data show that the ASIP is fiscally affordable.  Estimated government
spending under the ASIP in 1996-99 is relatively low in absolute terms and well within historical
levels of support for agriculture (table 1). They are also a very small share of total government
spending. In the past, the Government financed an average of about 30 percent of total public



expenditures in the agricultural sector, while the balance was financed by donors (major donors
active in the agricultural sector are shown in table 3). Donor financing in the period between
1990 and 1993 amounted to US$469.3 million. The donor funds financed 100 percent of capital
investments and about 90 percent of recurrent expenditures associated with donor-run projects.
Since the future capital and recurrent expenditures of donor financed projects are usually
preprogrammed, there is little uncertainty attached to their funding. However, the Government
has experienced problems with meeting its counterpart funding obligations, due partly to the
higher aggregate level of counterpart funding required to service the 180 donor-supported projects
in the agricultural sector. Moreover, cost recovery of agriculture services has been low. During
1990-92 cost recovery of veterinary services was less than one percent of the cost of such
services. This trend has changed partly because of the Government's decision to privatize those
agricultural services that are better handled by the private sector and by increased enforcement
of cost recovery measures.  It is estimated that increased revenue collection from  fees on
veterinary services, land use services, agricultural training, and agricultural marketing and trade
could finance up to 50 percent of government expenditures on the ASIP. Under the ASIP, the
Government will increase its financing to about 40 percent of total agricultural expenditures,
resulting in a steadily declining share for donors. This is because the ASIP would produce
savings mainly by eliminating government subsidies for agricultural credit, and higher revenues
from  agricultural services through improved cost recovery measures.  The elimination of
duplication of donor support will also result in significant savings in government's counterpart
funding. The combined effect of these savings will total $390 million over the period of 1995-99
(para 2.42).
Table 1 Government expenditure in the agricultural sector, 1990-99
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
1990 Kwacha       28.8   28.0   20.5   17.3   17.5   24.6   25.8   27.1   28.4   29.9
(billions)
Share of total    3.0    2.5    2.2    2.9   5.0    4.0    3.5   3.6            3.6    3.9
spending (%)   I_I_I                  I       I       I      I       I_
Source: Zambia Public Expenditure Review (in preparation).
Note: 1990-92 are actual; 1993-94 are based on the budget estimates.  1995 estimates are
preliminary. 1996-99 are ASIP estimates. ASIP estimates exclude donor contributions
and credit subsidies for crop purchases.
1.12 The private sector in agriculture. Zambia's agricultural strategy before 1992 was
interventionist with direct involvement in agricultural production.  This strategy included
nationalization of maize mills and large farms, establishment of parastatals and state controlled
cooperatives, and extensive regulation and subsidization of agricultural production, marketing and
processing. This intervention distorted agricultural production patterns and discouraged the
private sector from active participation. Since 1992, the Government has vigorously embarked
on policies aimed at promoting private sector development, including privatizing agricultural
activities and removing regulatory constraints. The Government is fully committed to rolling back
the extensive involvement of the public sector in agricultural activities. Already four enterprises
have been privatized and another twenty-three are at advanced stages of the privatization process
(see annex 1). It is expected that when the privatization process is completed, most of the



- 6 -
services currently provided by the public sector, including veterinary services, will be carried out
by the private sector.  There are already signs that government measures have prompted
increasing private investments in agriculture, particularly in high value export crops. Between
1992 and 1993, the export of roses increased by 84 percent from US$2.9 million to US$5.5
million.
C. The potential for growth in agriculture
1.13 Zambia has the potential to greatly expand agricultural production. This potential resides
primarily in the possibilities for increasing the utilization of available natural resources -
particularly Zambia's abundant land and water resources - and the efficiency of their use. An
analysis of Zambian agriculture in 1989 showed that, at market-determined exchange rates, the
country has a strong comparative advantage in a range of food crops, industrial crops, and
livestock products. This comparative advantage exists whether the sector continues to use present
technology or invests in improved technology. For maize, cotton, sunflower, and tobacco, the
estimated domestic resource cost ratios are less than 0.40 across the range of farm subsectors
(smallholders, emergent farmers, and commercial farmers). This comparative advantage should
enable Zambia to increase agricultural GDP and export earnings.
Potential sources of growth
1.14 There are four main potential sources of agricultural growth: expansion of cultivated area,
increases in yield, diversification, and improvements in livestock productivity. The potential for
growth from these sources is strongest in the smallholder and emergent commercial farming
subsectors.
1. 15 Expansion of cultivated area. Of Zambia's total cultivable land, only 14 percent is
cropped each year. Expansion of cropped area has been the main source of agricultural growth
in the past, and land would not be a binding constraint in the foreseeable future. Zambia's ability
to achieve agricultural growth rates which are significantly higher than population growth rates
would, however, require that the severe labor constraints in the traditional sector can be overcome
through the introduction of new technology. Improvements in the production environment under
the ASIP are expected to result in expansion of the area under cultivation by smallholders and
emergent farmers as well as by commercial farmers. Key improvements will be in access to farm
mechanization, particularly animal draft power, through the farm power and mechanization
subprogram, and in extension and animal health services.
1.16 Increases in yields. Productivity in the traditional sector has remained stagnant over the
past decade. It is considerably below the production frontier and the genetic potential of the crop
varieties cultivated. Even modest increases in the productivity of smallholders, who produce most
of the output, would have a significant impact on national agricultural growth. The favorable soil
and rainfall conditions in much of Zambia offer considerable potential for improving yields using
available technology (table 2).



- 7 -
Table 2 Current and potential yields of smallholders production
Current          Potential          Potential
yields           yields           increase in
Crop             (tons per ha.)    (tons per ha.)       yield (%)
Maize                  1.8              3.5                94
Sunflower             0.8               1.4                75
Soybean               0.7               1.3                85
Cotton                0.8               1.2                50
Groundnuts             1.2              1.8                 50
Tobacco (burley)       1.4              1.8                28
Tobacco (Virginia)     1.8              2.4                 33
Source: ASIP preparation reports.
1.17 Diversification. Zambia's relatively large urban population and the export potential in
Southern Africa should support diversification toward higher-value crops (such as sunflower,
soybean and cotton), and livestock enterprises in peri-urban areas and along the Line-of-Rail and
the major all-weather roads. Commercial farmers are expected to be the first to exploit this
opportunity, but as small-scale irrigation develops, emergent commercial farmers will gradually
increase production of high-value crops. The ASIP's irrigation and new products development
subprograms would support the introduction of new technology and the identification of new crops
and markets.
1.18 Improvement in livestock productivity. The potential for growth is high in the livestock
subsector. In the traditional sector calving rates are 5 percent, compared with 13 percent in the
commercial sector, takeoff is 6 percent (compared with 17 percent), and adult mortality rates are
9 percent (compared with 18 percent). Most of the difference in output can be explained by the
poor animal husbandry practices of the traditional farmers. Given this slack capacity in the
sector, productivity gains should be possible using existing technology. But achieving these gains
will require public investment in farmer training and efficient delivery of improved animal health
services.
Demand for agricultural output
1.19 Growth in agricultural output will be driven by the expected increase in domestic demand
for food. With estimated population growth of 3.2 percent per year and growth in the urban
population from 50 percent to 60 percent of the total, food requirements are expected to increase
sharply over the next decade. The income elasticity for food is about 0.90, and food accounts
for 80 percent of expenditures by lower-income households. The effective demand for food is
thus expected to remain high. And as the economy improves and per capita incomes increase,
per capita consumption of higher-value food products is expected to grow.
1.20 Export demand also is expected to increase as a result of the removal of export restrictions
on agricultural products and the introduction of a market-determined exchange rate. In 1993, with
foreign exchange earnings of US$33.7 million, agriculture was the second major earner of foreign
exchange for Zambia's non-traditional export. Soybean production in the commercial sector has
increased dramatically over the past two years, to meet the excess demand in South Africa.



Demand for maize exports to Malawi and Zaire is expected to continue growing as a result of
population increase in Malawi and continued political instability in Zaire. In the longer run
Zambia could become a major agricultural supplier in southern Africa given its land reserves, its
relatively low cost of production, and the greater reliability of its rainfall patterns compared with
those of the region's other agricultural surplus countries (South Africa and Zimbabwe). Zambia
can also be competitive in meeting the increasing demand for specialty crops, including
organically grown crops, in European markets. Two areas that have shown promise are the
export of roses, which has increased more than fourfold between 1990 and 1993 from US$1.2
million to US$5.5 million, and the production of high-value food colorants from marigolds and
paprika, which is expected to expand rapidly over the next two years.
1.21 Increased efficiency in the agricultural marketing system resulting from market
liberalization would provide an additional stimulus to the growth of the agricultural sector. It
would reduce transaction costs in export and domestic markets, making Zambian exports more
competitive and reducing domestic consumer costs, which in turn should increase both total
demand and farm incomes.
D. Development constraints and strategy
1.22 Exploiting the untapped potential among smallholder, emergent, and commercial farmers
would enable agriculture to play a significant role in employment creation and income growth and
to provide the initial supply response needed to revitalize the economy. But realizing that
potential will require overcoming the weaknesses in the policy environment and in support
services that have constrained agriculture. Past economic policies emphasized public intervention
through regulatory and institutional controls (including administrative pricing) and reliance on
government-dominated cooperatives. These policies discouraged the private sector and led to a
distorted crop mix, use of suboptimal technologies, and disinvestment from agriculture. Critical
constraints on expansion and diversification of agriculture include low on-farm and agribusiness
investment due to the disintegration of the agricultural credit system and high real interest rates;
problems in access to land, which discourage long-term private investment in land; and poor rural
transport network, which significantly increases the marketing costs of both agricultural inputs
and outputs.
1.23  Reversing the past trend of low private investment in agriculture requires a different set
of priorities. The Government recognizes that it needs to avoid actions that crowd out the private
sector and that involve direct interference in and control of economic activities. The focus should
be on creating an enabling policy environment and providing the infrastructure needed to induce
private sector participation and investment. The Government has therefore embarked on an
ambitious reform program aimed at sustaining improvements in the incentive structure through
appropriate exchange rate and monetary policies, eliminating restrictions on the export of food
grains, and formulating a land use and tenure policy to encourage long-term on-farm investments
and optimal use of land in large and small farms.
1.24 As experience in Zambia and other countries has shown, however, policy reforms alone
are often insufficient to generate adequate volume of private sector activity, especially when, as
in Zambia, it has been suppressed over a long period. To encourage the private sector to fully
exploit the policy reforms described above, high-quality and relevant support services must be
provided to farmers and other private sector actors. Government agricultural agencies need to
be able to provide such services on a timely basis and without costly subsidization. That requires
a decentralization of control so that decision-making, responsibility, and accountability reside at



- 9 -
the lowest levels of contact with beneficiaries, with those directly responsible for providing
services.
1.25 The Government's strategy for agriculture is to harness the growth and employment
potential of the entire sector, including smallholders, emerging commercial farming, and
commercial farming. This strategic vision would focus on (i) commercializing and privatizing
the remaining agricultural parastatals, agribusinesses, and state farms (only 4 of the 42
agricultural parastatals have been privatized); (ii) stimulating private investment in agriculture by
improving access to credit and foreign exchange, providing effective technical and advisory
services, and promoting foreign investment; (iii) prioritizing and rationalizing public sector
involvement in agriculture to achieve greater efficiency; and (iv) forging a shared vision with
donors on priorities for the agricultural sector development. To achieve this strategic vision, the
Government has resolved to operationalize its strategy through a comprehensive and coordinated
agricultural sector program, which it has presented to donors for support.
E. Donor assistance strategy
1.26 The goal of IDA and other donors' activities in Zambia is to assist the Government in
achieving sustainable economic growth and in reducing poverty. The latest Country Assistance
Strategy for Zambia was reviewed by the Board on March 10, 1994. The country strategy
proposes to assist Zambia in three main areas, all related to the overall goal of poverty reduction:
(i) stimulating growth by removing policy constraints and improving the enabling environment,
including fiscal management; (ii) promoting private sector development and greater public sector
efficiency; and (iii) supporting targeted interventions for the poor and vulnerable groups. The
Agricultural Sector Investment Program forms a key component to the country strategy.
Improving household food security and income is critical to meeting these objectives, and support
for agriculture is thus a key element of the country strategy. The reforms supported by this
program would improve the management of fiscal resources, substantially increase public sector
efficiency, and provide necessary incentives needed to stimulate private investment in agriculture.
In addition, the program would focus on smallholder farmers and thus would especially benefit
the poor, particularly women, by raising their incomes through higher productivity and
employment creation.
F. Program performance and lessons learned
1.27 A country portfolio performance review undertaken in March 1994 highlighted a number
of lessons for project implementation in Zambia. First, the proliferation of donor-assisted projects
and over-reliance on foreign technical assistance undermine public sector management capacity
and government commitment to implementing programs. Second, executing projects through
overcentralized agencies does not work, and public sector decentralization is essential. Third,
creating separate, or parallel, structures for implementing also is ineffective. Instead, the
planning, disbursement, accounting, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation functions of the
government line ministries must be upgraded, and donors must be encouraged to channel support
through existing government agencies rather than introducing their own procedures. Fourth,
subsidized credit undermines the viability of Zambia's three rural financial institutions. And fifth,
the rigid designs of earlier projects prevented their adaptation to unforeseen changes during
implementation. The ASIP is designed to address all these concerns.
1.28 To ensure that the program is implemented effectively and achieves the desired results, the
ASIP will be implemented within the MAFF's institutional framework with minimum technical



- 10 -
assistance. Indeed, the ASIP will be carried out with maximum involvement and "ownership"
by the Government and the beneficiaries to ensure that the program's development impact is
sustained. And to ensure the relevance of program interventions, the program includes annual
beneficiary assessments (see box 6).
1.29 The concern that the proliferation of uncoordinated donor programs in several sectors is
overloading the Government's implementation capacity has prompted the development of
integrated sectoral approaches in agriculture, health, and, more recently, education. These
integrated programs are based on a strategic investment plan prepared by the Government, which
all donors (including IDA) support. Development of these programs has required substantial
coordination and capacity building up front, but that work is expected to substantially enhance the
benefits of the jointly agreed sector programs.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
A. Concept
2.1   The proposed Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) is a departure from the
traditional project approach. The ASIP is designed to achieve significantly greater project
efficiency, ownership, capacity building, and sustainability.  Seven features of the ASIP
differentiate it from traditional projects. It covers the entire country's agricultural sector. It has
been prepared by a Zambian task force with members drawn from both the public and the private
sector. It will be implemented within the institutional framework of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Food, and Fisheries (MAFF), without separate subprogram units. It will be financed by all
donors active in the sector and the donors' procedures for procurement, reporting, accounting,
and auditing would be standardized as much as possible. The use of long-term expatriate
technical assistance would be kept to a minimum, and short-term technical assistance would be
supplied on demand from the ASIP implementors. The ASIP has a built-in flexibility that is
based on annual reviews and adjustments. And it is embedded in public sector reforms in the
agricultural sector aimned at greater decentralization and beneficiary participation. These features
should protect the ASIP from the risks of complex project design and overreliance on long-term
technical assistance that have beset most projects and that often lead to failure. In addition,
management by Zambians through normal governrent institutional channels would make the ASIP
more likely than traditional projects to induce a strong sense of national ownership to build
capacity, and to prove sustainable.
Box 2 Ensuring local ownership
The Government and donors agreed in November 1992 that the Government would
"drive" the preparation process. Donors were to be kept informed ofprogress on a regular
basis, but were not to influence the preparation. The task force used individual consultants
but politely declined proposals by foreign consultant firms and other agencies to assist.
Although the Bank coordinated the multidonor pre-appraisal and appraisal, it conducted
them in close consultation with the Government and all donors, and major decisions were
arrived at by consensus. The preparation documents were prepared by Zatnbians. Despite
inevitable changes in the program after appraisal, the sense of local ownership has
remained strong.



- 11 -
2.2   Collaboration between donors and the Government in the preparation of the ASIP was
recognized as essential to ensure donor support. During the design and preparation of the ASIP,
the task force used the donors as a sounding board for proposed concepts, elements, and design
and solicited their views at critical stages. When the draft program preparation report was ready,
the Government presented it to donors for critical evaluation in March 1994. The issues of
concern to donors and the Government were then identified and addressed, including gender,
accountability, vulnerable groups, counterpart funding, implementation arrangements, and
harmonization of donors' procedures. As a result of the effective consultation and collaboration,
all major donors in the agricultural sector are supporting and cofinancing the ASIP. To ensure
successful implementation, the donors and the Government agreed to continue the constructive
collaboration by meeting at least once a month to address implementation issues or any other
donors concerns as they arise. In addition, each year the Government and donors will review and
agree on the following year's public investments in the sector before the budget is finalized.
B. Rationale and objectives
2.3   Rationale. Zambia's agricultural sector has great potential to respond rapidly to the
economic reform program supported by the Bank and the IMF. It can play a central role in the
Government's economic growth and poverty reduction strategy. It is also important in economic
adjustment by providing the initial supply response needed to stimulate economic activity, and can
support economic growth in the long-run by providing sustainable export earnings. But if the
expected growth is to materialize, the private investments have to be promoted and public support
must be made more efficient. In addition, donor support to Zambian agriculture should be better
coordinated to ensure maximum impact (in agriculture alone there are more than 180 donor-
funded projects)
2.4   The ASIP would involve a partnership between the Government and donors in formulating
and implementing the agricultural sector program. The Government would identify and prepare
priority programs in agriculture and would work with donors to improve the efficiency, capacity,
and sustainability of these programs, but without sacrificing ownership. The coordinated policy
reform and investment planning coupled with coordinated donor support would be much more
difficult without the leadership and involvement of IDA. The proposed ASIP would also
complement the ongoing donor-supported structural adjustment efforts as outlined in the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) for 1994-96 and is consistent with IDA Country Assistance Strategy for
Zambia [para 1.26].
2.5   Objectives. The ASIP would be the first in a series of successive four-year programs
aimed at supporting the medium- and long-term goals outlined in the Government's Letter of
Sectoral Development Policy. The Government's primary agricultural development objectives,
as reflected in the ASIP, are improving household food security, promoting better use of natural
resources, generating incomes and employment, and increasing export earnings and contributing
to the balance of payments.
C. Summary description
2.6   The ASIP would be implemented over a four year period and has four main components
(for donor support by component, see table 3). The first, policy and institutional improvements,
would focus on outstanding policy reforms in key areas of marketing (eliminating subsidies to
marketing parastatals), trade and pricing, food security, and land use and land tenure. It would
support institutional restructuring and strengthening, with an emphasis on improving the capacity



- 12 -
of sectoral agencies to provide efficient services (that cannot be provided at present by the private
sector) in the priority areas of agricultural research, extension, livestock, and rural finance. It
is expected that in a broad program like the ASIP, the allocation of resources between the
components shown in this report is just indicative, and will be revised annually in consultation
between the Government and donors taking into account the previous year's result.
2.7   The second component would undertake public investment to complement and support the
policy and institutional improvements. Investments would be made in the following priority
areas:
*     Agricultural research to provide appropriate technologies for increased productivity.
*     Agricultural extension to accelerate dissemination of technologies, increase
productivity, and promote resource conservation.
*     Livestock production and health to strengthen public support services to
smallholders, improve disease prevention and control, and increase productivity.
*     Fisheries development for smallholders, especially resource-poor households
*     Rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation facilities for smallholders.
*     Agricultural training to strengthen human resources.
*     Farm power and mechanization to assist smallholders in increasing agricultural
production.
2.8   The third component, private sector development, would help create an enabling
environment and incentives for the private sector. This component would also support rural
financial services for productive and agricultural marketing activities, multiplication and
distribution of seeds for smallholders, and new product development (horticulture and
diversification into new crops and the establishment of the Golden Valley Agricultural Research
Trust).
2.9   The fourth component, pilot investment schemes, would establish a rural investment fund
to support small-scale capital investments in rural communities on a matching grant basis and it
would support the privatization of government farms. Broad dissemination of selected new
technologies would follow from pilot and demonstration stages.



- 13 -
Box 3  From project to program  cycle
Preparation of the ASIP was a massive, 18 - month effort by Zambian government
officials and private sector participants. But it laid the foundation for long-term activities
in the sector and involved substantial capacity building and should therefore be regarded
as an important investment towardfuture such programs. Because the ASIP incorporates
a process of continuous review and adjustment of the agriculture sector program, the
preparation of similar operations in the future would require smallerfinancial investments
(see box 6). If that progressed as planned, it should be possible to replenish the program
every three to four years with only modest preparation effort. The reduced need for
preparation is expected to result in major cost savings (especially if donors intensify
collaboration and share costs) and to both simplify and reduce the vulnerability of the
"pipeline' building process. And it will help free up the Bank and other donors to focus
their efforts on implementation support and getting results in the field.
Table 3 Donor support by component
DUTCH
Component            IDA    G7Z   EU    AFDB  IFAD  NORAD  FINNIDA  AID  UNDP  JICA   SIDA Belgium  USAID
Policy and institutional   x               x    x                     x     x           x
Improvements
Public invest. program
Research              x     x             x      x      x      x    x       x          x
Extension             x     x             x      x      x            x                 x
Livestock                         x       x      x                                            x
Fisheries                                        x                   x            x
Irrgation                                        x                   x
Farm power and
mechanization                                                     x
Training              x
Private sector development
program
Seed multiplication                             x                                       x
Rural finance                x     x       x    x                                       x
New product development            x
Pilot investment schemes
Rural investment fund  x           x       x    x                                       x
Privatization of farmland  x                                                            x            x



- 14 -
D. Detailed description
Policy and institutional improvements (US$28.4 million)
2.10    This component would support changes in key policy areas, institutions, and
implementation processes that the Government considers essential to enhance producer incentives,
improve resource allocation, raise productivity, and strengthen implementation capacity.
Expenditures would cover mainly salaries and other recurrent expenditures and would be funded
from the government recurrent budget (see table 4 for a breakdown of expenditures). The
envisaged measures are contained in the Government's Letter of Sector Development Policy and
summarized in the policy matrix (annex 1). A final Letter of Sector Development Policy has been
submitted to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government will diligently
implement the reforms contained in the Letter of Sector Development Policy [para 5. I(i)].
2.11    Marketing and standards. Under this subcomponent the Government would continue
to remove all pricing distortions affecting agricultural inputs and outputs, review and update
domestic marketing and trade legislation, remove export and import restrictions on agricultural
commodities, and privatize public storage facilities. In addition, it would strengthen the capacity
of the MAFF and the Cooperative and Marketing Agency (CMA) to perform essential monitoring,
quality control, and public health functions in agricultural and food markets. And it would
improve the grading and standards monitoring system in agriculture by financing diagnostic
equipment and facilities. The MAFF will contract out some grading services of agricultural
inputs to the private sector.
2.12    Food security. Poverty and malnutrition continue to be serious problems in Zambia,
even by the African standards. Malnutrition is a leading cause of death among children. Many
Zambians have insecure access to food and cannot obtain enough to sustain physical and mental
growth. In rural areas food insecurity stems mainly from the low productivity of farms. The
problem of urban food insecurity is less complex (mainly caused by low incomes), but no easier
to solve.  To deal with both emergency and chronic food insecurity, the Government is
developing broad, comprehensive interministerial response mechanisms. Several response
mechanisms already are in place, including the Early Warning System, the Food, Health, and
Nutrition Information System (FHANIS), the Task Force for Disaster Relief, and NGOs such as
the Program Against Malnutrition (PAM) and Project Urban Self-Help (PUSH). The Government
proposes to deal with transitory food insecurity through a national food reserve of about I million
bags (25,000 metric tons) of maize and to establish a fund to finance imports. And it will
continue the ongoing programs to deal with chronic food insecurity through the Ministries of
Health and Community Development and through NGOs under the coordination of the Office of
the Vice President. In addition, the research and extension subprograms of the ASIP would focus
on improving food security and reducing poverty among rural households, and the MAFF would
continually monitor the effectiveness of the ASIP in addressing household food insecurity.
2.13    Rural finance policy and institutional reforms. The Government would take several
measures aimed at improving smallholders' access to credit and other financial services and
ensuring the sustainability of these services. It would encourage broad participation in the
provision of financial services to the rural sector. It would eliminate commodity-specific credit
targeting in donor-supported credit programs and end subsidies to farm inputs and produce
marketing credit. It would support the formation and training of smallholder savings and credit
groups and provide legal status to informal financial institutions and associations. It would
implement an action plan for restructuring or possibly liquidating three specialized rural financial



- 15 -
institutions. And it would encourage the development of collateral and collateral substitutes (for
example, joint liability, group lending, and warehouse bonding). In addition, it will encourage
smallholder farmers' access to credit through informal systems such as suppliers credit and
outgrower arrangements.
2.14    Land use and tenure policy and institutional reforms. This subcomponent is aimed
at increasing the efficiency of land use and enhancing institutional capacity for land administration
and surveys. To achieve these goals, the Government would strengthen the administrative
capacity for land management. It would encourage the development of a free land market by
eliminating most  requirements for obtaining consents to transactions, by permitting land
subdivisions and subleases, and by introducing an improved land rental system and methods of
collection (including retention of land rents by the communities that have paid the rent). It would
enact legal reforms to achieve unified land laws across the country and extend the terms of leases
to 99 years, to eliminate unnecessary procedural requirements, and, in the longterm, to allow land
transactions without government interference.  Finally, the Government would subdivide
government and parastatal farms and transfer the land to individuals, ensuring that land is
allocated to landless people in peri-urban areas.
2.15     Livestock policy and institutional reforms. Increased productivity and efficiency of
the livestock sector would be sought through several steps. The Government would encourage
private veterinary practice, introduce cost recovery for publicly provided veterinary services, and
privatize veterinary drug distribution, dips, vaccinations, animal breeding, and artificial
insemination. And it would unify responsibility for animal health and husbandry under one
department in the MAFF and strengthen the meat inspection capacity. The department will
provide technical support to and inspect private dip tank operators and drug distributors.
2.16    Refornming agricultural institutions. The Government has made significant progress
in reforming the agricultural sector, particularly in marketing, pricing policy, rural finance, land
tenure, and the regulatory framework. Under the ongoing Economic and Social Adjustment
Credit  (ESAC), the Government has also embarked on the privatization of agricultural
enterprises. The ASIP would complement these efforts to accelerate the privatization of
agricultural parastatals by financing the required pre-privatization activities. As part of the ASIP
preparation, the MAFF has developed an action plan for privatizing and commercializing revenue-
earning activities in the agricultural sector. (See annex 1 for the details of these reforms,
including actions already taken or expected to be taken in the first phase of the ASIP.)  In
addition, under the ASIP the Government would comprehensively restructure the MAFF in
support of its operational and financial decentralization. The Government has engaged a
consulting firm to assist the MAFF in this endeavor. As part of the financial decentralization of
the MAFF, a financial management unit would be established and maintained [para 5.1 (xiii)]
within the ministry to coordinate the accounting, auditing, and financial reporting under the ASIP.
This unit would oversee the progressive delegation, and eventual devolution, of responsibilities
for budgeting, planning, execution, donor funding, procurement, and auditing to local levels, in
line with the Government's policy of decentralization.
2.17    Capacity building fund. A fund would be established to finance technical assistance,
on demand, to assist the MAFF in carrying out the policy and institutional reforms and to provide
implementation support. This fund would finance all technical assistance needs under the ASIP,
as identified by each subprogram during implementation. These technical assistance needs are
expected to be short-term. (See annex 10 for a detailed description of the fund.)



- 16 -
Public investment (US$182.7 million)
2.18    Public sector investments would be focused in areas in which government interventions
have a comparative advantage and play a crucial role particularly in the provision of basic services
to farmers. There are seven subprograms under this component.
2.19    Agricultural research (US$35.0 million).  This subprogram  would support the
development of a high-quality, appropriate, and cost-efficient agricultural research service. Nine
donor agencies (see table 3) would assist the Government in providing the operating costs for the
agreed programs of research, in beginning the privatization of its research activities through the
establishment of the Golden Valley Agricultural Research Trust, and in rehabilitating and
reequipping its research stations. Research organized on the basis of agro-ecological zones has
been prioritized, within the National Research Action Plan (NRAP), on the basis of farmer
demands and national development priorities. Farming system research teams based in the
provinces and supported by commodity research teams would provide useful and cost-efficient
technology to farmers and agro-industry. The subprogram would include support for breeding
and agronomic research to improve the productivity of priority food and cash crops and to
develop drought-resistant varieties, to encourage soil management and resource conservation, to
increase livestock productivity, and to improve crop processing and storage farming systems. The
participating donors and the Government have agreed to provide adequate funding for the
overhead and recurrent costs of both research management and specific programs. Provision is
made under the ASIP to finance training, civil works rehabilitation, vehicles and equipment,
limited technical assistance, staff salaries and operating costs, and limited construction of new
buildings as necessary for the reorganization of the research system.
2.20    Agricultural extension and information (US$58.0 million). This subprogram would
focus on improving the quality of extension services and expanding coverage nationwide of a
Zambian agricultural extension and information framework designed to serve the smallholder
sector. This national framework would incorporate elements of the training and visit (T&V)
system, including regular training of field staff and strong technical support from qualified district
specialists with direct links to research. Extension would offer farmers improved technology
through regular group contacts and systematically seek their perceptions of priorities and
constraints to guide extension and research managers in formulating programs. Regular field
programs would be supplemented by greater use of on-farm demonstrations, visual aids, and mass
media support. Extension would be based on farming systems that expand the cultivated area,
conserve water and soil, train emergent commercial farmers in managerial skills, and promote
technologies that increase farm productivity and returns to labor. There would be a unified
extension service at the field level. Specialists from the Department of Animal Production and
Health would provide technical and management techniques for livestock to field extension staff,
who would ensure that smallholders receive multidisciplinary advice on farm management.
2.21    Within the national extension framework, extension strategies and plans would be
developed for each district that take into account local circumstances and opportunities, identified
through diagnostic appraisals of farming systems and farmers' perceptions of priorities. To
promote the participation of beneficiaries, village extension groups would assist in setting
priorities for extension and in developing the most appropriate mixes of communication methods
for local use. All extension operations would actively encourage female membership in village
extension groups and the formation of women's groups.



- 17 -
2.22    The national extension service would operate through the existing organization of 9
provinces, 62 districts, 327 blocks, and 1,241 extension camp units. It would provide, on
average, one village-based extension worker for every 500 to 600 farm families. With financial
support from IDA, the African Development Fund (ADF), and the Norwegian Agency for
Development (NORAD), the national extension program was extended to 53 of the 62 districts
by December 1994 and will cover the remaining nine districts by 1997. This rate of expanding
coverage would be manageable with available resources.
2.23    To improve incentives and work environment for extension field staff, the subprogram
would provide allowances, adequate operating funds, better technical support and in-service
training, and improved mobility under a motorcycle and bicycle ownership scheme. It is also
expected to provide a general salary increase. In addition, a proposed decentralization of
extension management and financial powers to districts would allow more effective and timely
support to field operations.
2.24    The costs of the subprogram are mainly for vehicles and equipment, rehabilitation of
critical field housing, information centers, local and overseas training, modest short-term technical
assistance, staff salaries and allowances, and extension operating and maintenance costs. Under
the ASIP the average recurrent cost of extension per farm family is estimated at about US$10 a
year. This cost is considered sustainable and compares favorably with costs in other developing
countries.
2.25    Livestock production and health (US$48.3 million). This subprogram would support
improvements in animal health field services and disease control (particularly trypanosomiasis and
tick-borne diseases), in the enforcement of disease control regulations, and in animal disease
investigation services, including those of the epidemiology units at headquarters and at the
provincial levels. It would support efforts to upgrade and improve the effectiveness of all aspects
of veterinary practice, including meat inspection and the network of animal quarantine stations.
It would establish,  by September 30, 1995, an interdisciplinary committee to coordinate
emergency disease control measures [para 5. 1(i)]. Finally, it would support the provision of
advice on animal husbandry and pasture management to front-line extension staff at the camp
level. Supported by five donor agencies, the subprogram would finance staff training, operating
costs, vehicles and equipment, and rehabilitation of infrastructure.
2.26    Fisheries development (US$16.6 million). This subprogram  would support the
strengthening of the regulatory and enforcement capability of the MAFF, improve the fisheries
monitoring services and statistical base, strengthen extension services for fisheries and
aquaculture, and upgrade fisheries training. It would also support the expansion and improvement
of culture fisheries and promote fish-farming systems among small farmers by, among other
things, establishing fish ponds for resource-poor households and stocking small bodies of water.
The subprogram would finance logistical support, the rehabilitation of infrastructure, and the
recurrent costs of vehicles and equipment.
2.27    Farm power and mechanization (US$3.1 million). This subprogram would support
the Agricultural Engineering Section of the MAFF with the aim of increasing the productivity of
smallholder labor through greater use of animal draft power and associated technologies;
improving soil and water management and conservation through the development and adaptation
of tillage equipment and systems for specific agro-ecological conditions; and testing and
promoting improved rural transport, small-scale processing, and village storage technologies.



- 18 -
2.28    The subprogram comprises two parts. The first would strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Engineering Section at MAFF headquarters through staff development and new
equipment. This section would be responsible for developing policy, monitoring the development
of farm power and mechanization throughout the country, performing liaison with private sector
interests, and developing initiatives to promote private sector involvement in farm power and
mechanization. The second part would provide continued support to the National Mechanization
Center (Palabana), which provides technical and training support to the national agricultural
extension service. While the center's main objective will continue to be promoting rapid adoption
of animal draft power in the smallholder sector, its functions would be broadened to cover rural
transport, small-scale processing equipment, village storage, and the development of ox-drawn
equipment for use in minimum tillage cultivation systems. The center would work with the
private sector in developing and manufacturing equipment and offer advisory and training
services to private and government institutions on demand. A fee would be charged for these
services to recover costs. Revenues from this and other sources are expected to eventually reduce
the budgetary support needed from the MAFF. The subprogram would not require adding new
staff and would provide support mainly for training, staff salaries, operating costs, and vehicles
and equipment.
2.29    Irrigation (US$6.7 million).  This subprogram would strengthen the institutional
capacity of the MAFF's Irrigation Engineering Section through reorganization, staff training, new
equipment, and improved office accommodations. No new staff would be recruited. The present
central and nine provincial irrigation units would be reorganized into one central and four regional
units. The regional units would provide technical and research support to district extension
services and assistance in designing and implementing the irrigation elements of the proposed
rural investment fund. The central Irrigation Engineering Section's responsibilities would include
conducting policy analysis, monitoring irrigation development, monitoring surface and ground
water extraction and quality with constant attention to environmental issues, developing national
irrigation plans consistent with the National Water Master Plan, and formulating training plans
for smallholders using irrigation. Support for the Irrigation Engineering Section would cover
training, civil works, operating expenses, vehicles and equipment, and staff salaries and
allowances.
2.30    The subprogram also would support the rehabilitation of about 3,000 hectares of
dilapidated and incomplete government irrigation schemes for smallholders. The rehabilitation
would benefit 1,800 farm families at a total estimated cost of US$1.8 million and an average cost
of US$600 per hectares. Criteria for selecting schemes for rehabilitation would include financial
viability, the presence of an established user group with a joint savings account, the group's
agreement to contribute to rehabilitation costs, and a formal agreement with the beneficiaries on
subsequent maintenance of the scheme. Beneficiaries would be required to contribute about 20
percent of the total cost of rehabilitation in the form of labor and local materials. On completion
of the rehabilitation, the beneficiary groups would assure ownership of the scheme and
responsibility for its maintenance.
2.31    Agricultural training (US$15.0 million).   This subprogram  would support the
coordination of all agricultural training to ensure that curricula meet the needs of farmers and to
improve the operational efficiency of training institutions. It would finance the acquisition of
skills for improving agricultural services and consultant services to develop appropriate local
teaching resources and improve the relevance of the curriculum. It would support rehabilitation
of dilapidated infrastructure and the purchase of new field and laboratory equipment and vehicles
for four agricultural training institutions: the Natural Resource Development College, Zambia



- 19 -
College of Agriculture at Monze and Mpika; and the Zambia Institute of Animal Health. Finally,
it would support the privatization of Popota Tobacco College, Kalulushi Farm College, and the
Cooperative College.
Private sector development (US$85.6 million)
2.32    The private sector development component consists of three subprograms: seed
multiplication and distribution, rural finance, and new product development.
2.33    Seed multiplication and distribution (US$4.2 million). This subcomponent would
establish a commercial seed multiplication and distribution system throughout Zambia for the
traditional staple food crops (maize, sorghum, pearl and finger millet, paddy rice, cassava, and
sweet potatoes) and legumes (groundnuts and cowpeas). These crops are particularly important
for food-insecure households. Although a number of improved cultivars of these crops have been
developed, the lack of an effective seed multiplication system in Zambia has prevented them from
reaching many of the intended beneficiaries. And because the market for planting materials is
small and scattered, ZAMSEED, the commercial seed company, is not interested in developing
it. In the system to be developed under this subprogram, smallholder farmers, NGOs, and farmer
training centers would produce the seeds, and small private businesses in the villages would
market them. A small central coordination unit in MAFF headquarters, working through field
extension staff in the provinces, would assist the program, and ZAMSEED would provide
technical support and management advice. ASIP support would include vehicles, equipment,
technical assistance, and the recurrent costs of the seed multiplication and distribution program,
although much of the recurrent costs would be recovered through seed sales.
2.34    Rural fmance (US$75.4 million). This subprogram would support the rationalization
or possible liquidation of three financial institutions (Lima Bank, the Credit Union and Savings
Association, and the Zambian Cooperative Federation) that traditionally have provided financial
services to the agricultural sector but that in recent years have become an unsustainable drain on
the Government's budget.  The Government is carrying out a diagnostic review of these
institutions to identify ways of restructuring the potentially viable ones to improve their
performance. The ASIP would support such restructuring. But the Government and donors agree
that, if these institutions are to be sustainable in the long run, they need to establish their
independence from the Government. The Government would therefore take all necessary steps
by September 30, 1995 to include the Lima Bank in Zambia Privatization Agency's privatization
program and initiate the process of privatization or liquidation [para 5. I(iii)]. In addition it has
been agreed that, beginning September 30, 1995, the other two institutions, assuming that they
are not liquidated, will operate on a commercial basis using their own resources and that the
Government will provide no new injections of funds [para 5. 1(iv)].
2.35     While the rural financial institutions are being strengthened, the ASIP would support
prelending activities to improve the access of smallholders and small entrepreneurs to formal
financial services.  It would strengthen existing farmers groups (for example, primary
cooperatives) and help form and train new groups and develop substitute collateral. These
activities not only would make it easier for smallholders and small entrepreneurs to obtain formal
credit for agricultural inputs (mainly seeds and fertilizers), but also would lower lenders'
transaction costs.
2.36    In addition, the Government has set up a revolving credit fund of about US$25 million
to support product and input marketing. Channelled through the commercial banks, these funds



- 20 -
are meant to encourage increased commercial bank lending at market interest rates to emergent
commercial farmers and agricultural traders, including cooperatives and smallholder groups. The
Government plans to increase the revolving fund to about US$75.4 million using any additional
funds recovered on outstanding government loans to the three traditional financial institutions,
proceeds from the sale of government stocks of maize and fertilizer, and financing from donor-
supported credit programs. After 1995/96, however, the Government would provide no additional
resources for the operation of the fund and would require financial institutions to supplement it
using their own funds.
2.37    New product development (US$6 million). This subprogram would support efforts
by the private sector to diversify into nontraditional exports, particularly horticulture and
agribusiness. It would support pilot schemes involving specialized technical services in extension,
management assistance, adaptive research, quality improvements, and control measures. It would
assist private entrepreneurs or associations in carrying out preinvestment studies, outreach
programs, and training and market research and promotion activities. And it would provide
financing for working capital and short-term investments.
Pilot investment schemes (US$53.3 million)
2.38    Rural investment fund (US$27.0 million). This program would address the lack of
rural credit through an interim rural investment fund. The fund would provide matching grants
to smallholder farmers and other rural groups for small-scale capital investments. It would build
on recent experience with similar donor-supported programs and attempt to consolidate these
programs in an effort to reach all vulnerable groups in rural areas. Like those programs, the fund
would require borrowers to make a counterpart contribution. A wide range of crop and livestock
production activities and related support services would be eligible for support, including facilities
and equipment for land preparation, irrigation schemes, control of crop and livestock diseases and
pest management, soil fertility improvement and conservation, harvesting and postharvest
handling, and storage, transport, and marketing.
2.39    The program would emphasize capacity building. It would work with groups of a
manageable size, supporting training to help them become self-reliant and capable of operating
successfully in a competitive market. This training should enable the groups to deal effectively
with the commercial credit and savings institutions that are expected to develop the capacity to
reach smallholder farmers during the project period. An implementation plan being developed
for the ASIP will provide clearly defined procedures and guidelines for operating the fund. The
guidelines are expected to include the following stipulations: that no member of an eligible group
would have a farm exceeding 3 hectares; that groups would undertake to contribute (in cash or
in kind, or both) a significant share of the investment cost and to cover all operating and
maintenance costs; and that investments would be economically viable. These guidelines and
procedures were agreed to at negotiations [para 5.1(v)]. The funds activities and implementation
arrangements would be coordinated closely with those of the Social Recovery Fund, under IDA-
supported Social Recovery Project, and other such programs financed by other donors.
2.40    Subdivision and privatization of state farms (US$26.3 million). This subprogram
would support the privatization of state and parastatal farmland and the distribution, on a pilot
basis, of about 10,000 hectares (in plots of about 4 hectares each) to landless urban dwellers.
Most of this land would lie within 40 kilometers of Zambia's three major cities, Lusaka, Ndola,
and Kitwe. The subprogram would also support the deletion of Sec. 35 of the Land and
Registries Act of 1914, which prohibits the acquisition of title by adverse possession. NGOs



- 21 -
would handle the selection of settlers, determine how the land would be allocated, and play a
consultative and training role during implementation. The subprogram would support staff
training and technical assistance for the Ministry of Lands and Survey and would finance the
equipment, vehicles, and recurrent costs needed to carry out the proposed activities.
2.41    Assurances that the scope and timetable for privatizing state farms would be developed
by September 30, 1995, were obtained at negotiations [para 5. 1(vi)]. In addition, an amendment
to the land laws to facilitate the subdivision of land, and the implementation of policy measures
to provide for the subdivision and sale of state farms, would be a condition of disbursement of
this subprogram [para 5.3].
E. Costs estimates
2.42    As a part of the ASIP preparation, the Government carried out a public expenditure
review of the agricultural sector. This review showed that Zambia's public expenditures in
agriculture over the past five years have averaged US$187 million a year. Total expenditures
under the ASIP, are estimated at US$350 million over four years, including provisions for
physical and price contingencies, or an average US$87.5 million a year. If the ASIP was not
implemented, and expenditures in the agricultural sector followed historical trends, they would
reach about US$740 million over the next four years. Thus, the ASIP would result in efficiency
gains of about US$390 million, or a 53 percent cost reduction (figure 1). The reduction in
expenditures would be due in part to the savings from eliminating waste due to duplication of
activities and from eliminating government subsidies for agricultural credit. As a result of these
savings the level of effective investments in the sector is expected to increase. The foreign
exchange component of ASIP costs would be about US$174 million, or 49.7 percent. Base costs
have been estimated in U.S. dollars at mid-December 1994 prices, and the price contingencies
are projected at 3 percent for 1995-1997, and 2.9 percent for 1998-1999 (see table 4 and annex
2 for summaries of estimated project costs). Physical contingencies are as follows: civil works,
10 percent; vehicles and office equipment, 5 percent; input supplies, 10 percent; and recurrent
costs, 10 percent.
2.43    The ASIP cost estimates have been prepared using the COSTAB computer program.
Because of the program's size, the Government plans to use computerized project management
(CPM) to support its implementation. CPM is expected to help improve scheduling, monitoring,
and reporting of implementation; allow greater precision in estimating the disbursement profile;
improve coordination between donor and Government actions through a unified schedule; and
allow close synchronization between ASIP cost estimates and the MAFF budgeting system.



Figure 1 Projected savings due to the ASIP 1995-99
Millions of U.S. dollars
200                                                                                                                             A  B
160                                                     u
180 sA ~~~US$117.0 SS2.
140
120
100
80                                                                                                                                 c
20
0
1995                          1996                           1997                           1998                          1999
*  Prjcted ASIP Exp.US$350.0 I] Projct   Savinv  US$390.0
Note:    AB represents the projected MAFF expenditures without the ASIP, estimated on the basis of historical data.
AC represents the projected expenditures agreed to under the ASIP.



- 23 -
Table 4 Estimated costs of the ASIP, by component
(millions of U. S. dollars)
Local      Foreign         Total
Policy and institutional improvements
MAFF headquarters                                        9.5          1.0         10.5
Policy and planning                                      5.4         6.2          11.6
Financial management unit                                0.6          1.0          1.6
Standards                                                2.7          2.0          4.7
Subtotal                                             18.2        10.2         28.4
Public investment
Extension                                               37.0        21.0          58.0
Research                                                16.0        19.0          35.0
Live production and health                              22.3        26.0          48.3
Fisheries                                                7.6         9.0          16.6
Farm power and mechanization                              1.3         1.8          3.1
Irrigation                                               3.5          3.2          6.7
Training                                                 7.8         7.2          15.0
Subtotal                                          95.5         87.2        182.7
Private sector development
Seed multiplication and distribution                     2.8          1.4          4.2
New products development                                 3.0          3.0          6.0
Rural finance:
Agricultural inputs                                    20.0         36.0         56.0
Marketing and trade                                     8.2        11.2          19.4
Subtotal                                          34.0         51.6         85.6
Pilot investment schemes
Rural investment fund                                   17.0        10.0          27.0
Subdivision and privatization of state farms            11.3        15.0          26.3
Subtotal                                          28.3        25.0          53.3
Total program cost                                          176.0       174.0         350.0
Note:     The figures in this table are indicative and will be revised annually in consultation between the Government and donors,
taling into account the previous year's result. The total program cost includes contingencies.



- 24 -
Box 4 Combining techniques for better project management
The sector approach provides an opportunity to combine these techniques - public
expenditure review, estimating project costs using COSTAB, and computerized project
management (CPM) - that together should reduce costs to both the Government and donors
and provide a capability for superior project monitoring. Public expenditure review is an
essential part of preparing the ASIP and similar programs. Planners need to ensure that
adopting such a program would not lead to higher expenditures in the sector than would
prevail ifthe program were not adopted. COSTAB cost estimate/budget software developed
in the Bank, helped in handling the frequent changes in numbers that are inevitable during
the cost estimating process and later, during implementation. And the CPM appears to be
a promising tool for scheduling, monitoring, coordinating activities in large, complex
projects. But the ASIP represents the first time that CPM will be used in Zambia, and it
may require considerable adaptation to make it user-friendly under Zambian conditions.
F. Financing
2.44    Financing plan. Of the total estimated cost for the ASIP of US$350 million about
US$140 million would be financed by the Government and the program's beneficiaries. Total
external financing would be about US$210 million, of which US$60 million would come from
ongoing donor-supported projects. Donors would provide US$150 million in new resources, of
which IDA would provide about US$60 million (see tables 4 and 5).
Table 5 Estimated flnancing plan
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Source of financing                   Local          Foreign             Total
IDA                                   20.0             40.0              60.0
Other donors                          40.0             50.0              90.0
Ongoing donor-supported               26.0             34.0              60.0
projects'
Government                            70.0             50.0             120.0
Beneficiaries                         20.0              -                20.0
Total                                176.0            174.0             350.0
a. Includes US$20 million from ongoing IDA projects.
2.45    The proposed IDA credit of US$60 million (17.1 percent of ASIP costs) would finance
mainly parts of the research, extension, training, institution support, and land subprograms and
investment activities under the rural investment fund in the pilot schemes component (see annex
8). As lender of last resort, IDA yielded first priority to other donors, but would still fund
significant proportions of those subprograms. About US$90 million of new resources would be
provided as parallel financing by other donors. Differences in donor countries' programming



- 25 -
dates have meant that some donors are unable to make firm commitments for the entire four years
of the ASIP, but the indications are that the program would be fully funded.
2.46    Local funding. The Government would finance 100 percent of staff salaries and
emoluments and an increasing share of the incremental recurrent expenditures. In year 1 of the
ASIP the Government is expected to finance 23 percent of incremental recurrent expenditures;
by year 4 its funding of such expenditures will have increased to about 45 percent (figure 2).
IDA would finance US$4.1 million (6.5 percent) of the incremental recurrent expenditures under
the ASIP on a decreasing basis (see table 7). The Government's total estimated contribution over
the four years of the ASIP would be about US$120 million; beneficiaries are expected to
contribute US$20 million.



Figue 2 Government share of nonaary recrrent eentures
Millions of U.S. dollars
18
16
US$1623                       US$16.1
14                                      US$15.4
US$14.7
12
10
6
4
2
1996                         1997                          1998                         1999
|   Recurrent costs   *Government share



- 27 -
G. Procurement
2.47    Since a Country Procurement Assessment Review is not available for Zambia, the
Government is now conducting a diagnostic review of the public procurement system. This
review will be followed by reforms under IDA-supported Financial and Legal Management
Upgrading Project (FILMUP). Responsibility for this effort has been delegated to the Zambia
National Tender Board (ZNTB). Until the review and adjustment of the procurement regulations
are completed, the Government would ensure that goods and services financed under the ASIP
would be procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA and other donors. In
addition, the Government would make procurement planning and monitoring an integral part of
the implementation of the ASIP. As part the of annual work plans (para 3.9), the Government
would prepare procurement programs that identify contract packages, value, procurement method,
and a time-bound schedule of procurement activities by contract. The Government and the donors
would review and adjust annual procurement plans as necessary.
2.48    During preparation of the ASIP, donors in Zambia met to review strategies that the
Government might use to harmonize procurement procedures where feasible. They provided
documentation related to their procurement policies, procedures, and forms. Initial results from
a review of this information indicate that many donors follow similar procurement procedures.
Using the results of this analysis, the Government would meet with donors to identify reasons for
the differences in their procurement procedures and ways to foster a common procurement
framework. Under the ASIP, the Government would explore the possibility of developing a
computerized system for preparing procurement documents that would automatically modify
documents to meet the relevant donor's specifications, including with regard to method of
procurement and eligibility clauses, without changing the base document.
2.49    IDA would fund civil works for rehabilitation of research stations, agricultural training
colleges, laboratories, and office buildings. These projects are small and geographically dispersed
and would not attract international bidders. The average contract value is expected to be less than
US$200,000, and the domestic construction industry is capable of executing the contracts. Civil
works costing less than US$500,000 per contract, aggregating to about US$7 million, may be
procured using Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with practices acceptable to IDA
(table 6). Force account may be used for civil works (mainly for staff houses and rehabilitation
of office buildings), for which each contract is estimated not to exceed US$10,000 and thus
expected not to be attractive to private firms. These contracts would total US$800,000.
2.50    Goods to be financed by IDA under this Credit would include vehicles, spare parts, lab
equipment, motorbikes, office furniture, computers, and supplies. Items that are similar would
be bulked into an individual procurement when feasible. Procurements equal to or greater than
US$100,000 would be made using International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
issued in May 1992. When ICB is used, a domestic preference of 15 percent or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is less, on the c.i.f. price would be used for evaluation purposes only,
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Procurements ranging in value from US$30,000 to
US$100,000, and up to an aggregate value of US$1,000,000, would be procured under LCB using
procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurements valued at less than US$30,000 and up to an
aggregate value of US$700,000 would be procured using shopping procedures with quotations
from at least three eligible suppliers. Direct contracting may be used for proprietary spares and
equipment up to an aggregate value of US$500,000.



- 28 -
2.51    About US$10 million of IDA financing for the rural investment fund would be used to
provide funds on a grant basis to mainly smallholder farmers groups to assist them in procuring
agricultural inputs and meeting their capital investment and operating needs. The matching grant
would be very small (averaging US$1,000 per group) and thus competitive bidding procedures
would be impractical. Procurement from the rural investment fund therefore would be carried
out through normal commercial channels available to the eligible groups. The guidelines for
operating the fund are detailed in the implementation plan.
2.52    Consultant services, mainly short-term, and training would be financed to support ASIP
implementation. Consultants would be selected and appointed in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for Use of Consultants issued in August 1981. It is estimated that IDA would finance
consultant and training services for a total of US$6.6 million and US$10.4 million respectively.
2.53    All imports procured under ICB would be subject to preshipment inspection for quality
and quantity, and all other imports valued at US$5,000 or more would be subject to such
inspection for quality, quantity, and competitive pricing. The Government would monitor the
preshipment inspection reports to verify that there have been no unauthorized or ineligible
exceptions.
2.54    All IDA-funded procurements for goods and civil works with an estimated value of
US$100,000 and US$150,000 respectively or more would be subject to prior review by IDA.
Such procurements would account for about 75 percent of the value of IDA-financed contracts
for goods and civil works. For consulting services, prior review of documentation would be
required for (i) contracts with consulting firms with an estimated value of US$100,000 or more;
(ii) contracts with individuals for US$50,000 or more; (iii) all single-source selections of
consulting firms; (iv) terms of reference for all contracts regardless of value; (v) critical
assignments; and (vi) amendments to contracts with consulting firms and individuals that result
in revised contract values greater than US$100,000 and US$50,000.
2.55   IDA's standard bidding documents will be used for all ICB financed by IDA Credit.
When there are no relevant standard bidding documents, documents based on accepted
international standard forms will be used. For LCB procurement, the Government would prepare,
and agree on with IDA standard bidding documents based on IDA's standard documents and
consistent with similar documents being prepared under the Health Sector Project.



- 29 -
Table 6 Procurement by category and method
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Category                                 ICB   LCB   Other        NBF        TOTAL
Civil works (rehabilitation)                     7.0      0.8    22.2          30.0
(6.8)    (0.7)               (7.5)
Goods (vehicles and equipment)            19.5   1.0       1.2    24.2         45.9
(19.5)  (0.9)    (1.0)               (21.4)
Credit                                                            66.5        66.5
Rural investment fund                                    10.0    17.0         27.0
(10.0)               (10.0)
Technical assistance (mainly short-term)                  6.6    25.4         32.0
(6.6)                (6.6)
Training                                                 10.4    26.6          37.0
(10.4)               (10.4)
Recurrent costsa                                                  49.1         49.1
Incremental recurrent costsb                              5.1    57.4         62.5
(4.1)                (4.1)
Total                                     19.5    8.0    34.1   288.4         350.0
(19.5)  (7.7)  (32.8)                (60.0)
Note.  Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA. ICB is International
Competitive Bidding; LCB is Local Competitive Bidding; Other is procurement not
covered under ICB or LCB such as forced account, shopping procedures and direct
contracting; NBF is non-Bank financed.
a.   Includes staff salaries, and staff allowances and expenses.
b.  Includes travel and subsistence, operating and maintenance costs, and other
miscellaneous operating costs.
H. Disbursement
2.56   In the past, Zambia's disbursement profile for externally funded projects has been slow.
At the root of the problem are the centralized arrangements for channeling funds to the
implementing agency or unit. Under the ASIP the Government would streamline and decentralize
its disbursement procedures to delegate responsibility and accountability for funds to the lowest
level of implementation. Funds would be advanced to the provincial or district levels on a
quarterly basis in accord with the annual work program and funding requirement, which would



- 30 -
indicate the activities to be undertaken each year, their location (province, district, and so on),
and appropriate measurable yardsticks of their progress. To ensure that the advanced funds are
used only for the intended purposes, the Government would put in place comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation arrangements after consultations with donors.
2.57   The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over a period of about four years. The
expected closing date of the Credit is December 31, 1999. The estimated disbursement profile
takes into account the historical profile for agricultural projects in Zambia and the technical
assistance provided for improving procurement and accountability in the program.
2.58   Table 7 shows that disbursement of the Credit by category:
Table 7 Disbursement of IDA Credit, by category
Category                                    Amount           Share of financing
(millions of U.S. dollars)
Civil works, including rehabilitation         7.5            100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures
Goods and agricultural inputs                 21.4           100% of foreign expenditures
and 90% of local
expenditures
Rural investment fund                         10.0           100%
Consultant services and training              17.0           100%
Operating costs of IDA-financed sub-          4.1            90% in years 1 and 2 and
programs                                                     75% thereafter
2.59   Financing and disbursement arrangements under the ASIP would be determined each year
in accordance with the annual work program and funding requirement, prepared by the MAFF
and agreed on with all the donors. Each donor would set up a special account as part of a central
special account opened by the MAFF through its financial management unit (see para 3.6). The
MAFF would open the account at the Bank of Zambia or at a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA and the other donors. The account, whose size would be based on the annual work program
and funding requirement, would be segregated to identify each donor's financing share. IDA
would provide an initial deposit of US$5 million to IDA special account to cover four months of
expenditures on IDA-supported subprograms. The central Financial Management Unit (FMU)
will advance funds from the Bank's and other donor's special accounts to the bank account
established by each regional/provincial/district level FMU based on their funding needs identified
in the annual work program and funding requirement. Therefore, while each donor's funds will
be held in a separate special account by the central FMU, the funds advanced from these accounts
will be maintained by each decentralized FMU in a common project bank account for all donor
and government funds, in order to keep the accounting and administrative workload at the
decentralized level to a minimum. The Government would also open a local currency account
for its counterpart funds for the ASIP. The establishment of this account would be a condition
of effectiveness [para 5.2].



- 31 -
2.60   Each provincial- and district-level implementing unit would open a separate bank account
into which an advance annual work program and funding requirement not exceeding US$20,000
equivalent could be transferred from the central special account. The Financial Management Unit
would be responsible for submitting regular replenishment applications with appropriate
supporting documents for expenditures. Such applications must be submitted monthly but no later
than every three months. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully
documented, except for (a) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$150,000 or
less for civil works, and (b) US$100,000 or less for goods, consulting firms, training and
operating costs, and (c) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants which reimbursement may
be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOE).  SOE forms (included in the
disbursement letter) will provide, at a minimum, the summary/total of category wise expenditures
collected from the various decentralized locations as well as from records of expenditures made
by the central FMU. The central FMU will follow up regularly with each decentralized FMU
and ensure that proper accounting has been submitted within the three-month period. No further
advances will be made from the central special account to delinquent FMU's until proper
accounting of outstanding funds is submitted to the central FMU. All SOE supporting documents
will be retained at the decentralized locations and made available for review by the central FMU
staff, the project/government internal audit staff, Bank/Donor supervision missions, and the
independent auditors as necessary.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Management and organization
3.1     Overall responsibility for implementing the ASIP would rest with the MAFF, and no
parallel administrative project units would be created. The implementation arrangements are
outlined in the implementation manual. Many of the ASIP activities would take place at the
district level, and as capacity is built at that level, provincial-level structures would be gradually
phased out. Meanwhile, MAFF staff at the provincial level would be delegated increasing
responsibility and accountability for programming, procuring requisite goods and services, and
auditing ASIP financial transactions. The proposed financial management unit (see para 3.6)
would monitor the flow of funds from the center to the implementing agencies or units.
Assurances were obtained at negotiation that the Government would maintain an implementation
arrangement satisfactory to IDA and other donors [para 5. 1 (vii)].
3.2    Private sector agencies would handle the program's private sector development
component. Each agency would prepare annual plans and budgets and execute and monitor its
component. These agencies would also prepare progress reports, which would be consolidated
by the Policy and Planning Division of MAFF. The participating banks would handle the rural
finance credit subprogram, operating under the same rules and regulations governing their regular
operations. The banks would prepare quarterly projections of disbursements; these projections
would provide the basis for the initial deposits and replenishments of their special accounts with
the Bank of Zambia.
3.3     Coordination of the ASIP. An agricultural sector steering committee (ASSC) has been
established to assume overall responsibility for formulating sector policies and coordinating the
implementation of all ASIP programs. The Minister of the MAFF would serve as the honorary
chairman, and the vice chairman would be elected by the members of the committee. The ASSC
would comprise senior officials drawn from the Ministry of Finance, the National Commission



- 32 -
Box 5 Transition to the ASIP
The Government plans to abolish parallel management structures for agricultural
projects and to merge these projects' activities into the ASIP, which will be the regular
government program. Donors will still be able to direct funds to areas and programs they
consider priorities, and will obtain regular reports on the use of thosefunds. The transition
is expected to occur gradually, as ongoing projects are modified, in a Zambian led process,
to fit into the ASIP framework. IDA and the Government have already begun adjusting
IDA-supported projects. The scope of the Agricultural Research and Extension Project has
been expanded and its coverage increasedfrom three to all nine provinces of Zambia. The
Coffee II Project will now provide loans for all industrial and export crops, not just coffee.
The Agricultural Marketing and Infrastructure Development Project will finance all
agricultural outputs and inputs. The on-going IDA-supported projects will initiate pre-ASIP
activities, especially pilot operations, to ensure a quick takeoff of the Program.
for Development and Planning, the Bank of Zambia, and the Ministries of Agriculture and Land
and Environment and three representatives of the private sector. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would maintain ASSC during the ASIP implementation [para
5.1 (xiii)].
3.4     The Policy and Planning Division of the MAFF would provide secretariat support to
the ASSC and perform liaison with each line agency of the MAFF responsible for implementing
ASIP programs and with donors on implementation issues.  In addition, the division would
consolidate the annual work program, prepare sector budgets for ASSC approval, handle
procurement and disbursement matters through the financial management unit, and organize an
annual review of the ASIP.
3.5     Financial management arrangements. Implementation of the ASIP would follow the
Government's financial procedures for planning, budgeting, accounting, internal control, and
financial management. Donors have, however, expressed concerns about weaknesses in the
Government's current financial management and accounting system. In particular, there are
delays in the flow of funds from the provincial level to the districts because of the Ministry of
Finance's failure to disburse the full amounts budgeted in the Yellow Book (annual budget). This
leads to arbitrary allocation decisions by the Provincial Accounting Unit, with little
correspondence between plan objectives and budgetary allocations. In addition, the districts lack
autonomy in their expenditures. The most critical consequences for the implementation of the
ASIP is the lack of effective accountability in the current financial management system.
3.6     In response to the donors' concerns, the MAFF has engaged the consulting firm Price
Waterhouse to design an accounting system that rectifies the current weaknesses and meets the
donors' reporting requirements. Price Waterhouse completed its first draft report in September
1994, but the new system is not expected to be fully operational before effectiveness of the ASIP.
The MAFF has therefore decided to put in place a transitional arrangement with sufficient
internal controls, transparency, and financial reporting mechanisms to meet the information needs
of the Government and donors and to ensure that funds reach the intended beneficiaries. This
transitional arrangement includes three key components. First, the financial management unit in
the MAFF, staffed by professionally qualified accounting personnel, would deal with all issues
of accountability, disbursement, procurement, and financial reporting under the ASIP. Second,



- 33 -
a donor funds division within the financial management unit would be responsible for accounting
for funds from donors participating in the transitional arrangement and for all other external
funding currently excluded from the national budgeting process. Third, a system of direct
disbursement to the districts would facilitate program implementation in the field through easier
access to funds. The proposed system would include several key control elements: an internal
audit section that would check all expenditure summaries from the districts, quarterly and annual
financial reports to IDA and other donors, and a biennial external audit of the special account and
statement of expenditure withdrawals. (See annex 5 for details of the proposed transitional
financial management arrangements.)
3.7       Critical to the success of the proposed decentralized accounting system  is human
resource capacity at the district levels. The MAFF will develop a time-bound program to
improve capacity at the district level so that fiscal control can be fully decentralized to districts.
The proposed transitional arrangements, including setting up and staffing the Financial
Management Unit, are being implemented by the Government.
3.8       Implementation plans and perfornance indicators. Each implementing agency or
department would prepare a report on the implementation arrangements for its subcomponent
detailing activities, organization and management, cost estimates, and performance indicators.
The sector key performance indicators are in table 8. These reports would be consolidated into
an ASIP implementation manual. The program implementation manual has been finalized.
Table 8 Sector key performance indicators
Indicators                    Actual            Estimated           ASIP (Projected)
199)    1992    1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Agricultural GDP (1977 constant zk  406   272     411    398    395    407    423    444    466
million)
Total Value of agricultural export  29.5    42.7   63     50      55     66     82    107    140
(US$ rnillion)
Food production index 1981 = 100  133.3   116.8   153.4   140.0   130    140    148    158    170
Land productivity (yield per ha of  1.3   0.6     1.8    1.7    1.6    1.8    1.9    2.1    2.2
major food crops) (tons)
Net agricultural income per farm  71      47       85     70      70     78     82      88     95
household (1977 constant zk)
Index of real producer prices (1985 =  500  1200    1000    900    900    925    950    980    1020
100) 90 kg. bag of maize
Fertilizer Use (Kg/ha)            12      14       14     13      14     15     16      18     13
3.9       Annual work plans and budget. Coordinated by the Policy and Planning Division,
the MAFF implementing departments would be responsible for updating the annual work plans
and budgets for the ASIP in accordance with the implementation plan. The ASIP work plan and
budgets have been designed to provide the inputs needed in the MAFF's annual budgeting exercise
and would generate the data needed for the agriculture sector public investment reviews. The



- 34 -
work plans would detail the activities planned, the budgetary and human resources required,
performance indicators, and the procurement program, including the contract package and
estimated costs. During implementation the MAFF would begin to use the ASIP budget structure
to account for annual expenditures. At the end of each year the MAFF would review the
expenditures, make necessary adjustments, and prepare a revised ASIP (MAFF) budget for the
following year. Maintaining the ASIP format for monitoring actual MAFF expenditures would
provide a more structured data base for public expenditures in the agricultural sector. Three
months before the start of the fiscal year the MAFF would prepare a draft annual work plan and
supporting budget estimates for each subprogram and submit them to the ASSC for approval and
to donors for discussion during the annual ASIP review. The Government would undertake to
have no other public investments in the agricultural sector outside the ASIP framework. Each
year the Government and donors would reach agreement on the following year's public
investments in the sector. Assurances to these effects were obtained at negotiations [para
5. Il(viii)].
B. Monitoring, evaluation, and beneficiary assessment
3.10    The monitoring and evaluation system under the ASIP would have three components:
management information systems (MIS), impact evaluations and beneficiary assessments and
feedback, and agricultural sector performance analyses. The Policy and Planning Division would
have primary responsibility for recommending corrective actions based on the findings of the
monitoring and evaluation system. Assurances were obtained at negotiation that the Government
would maintain a monitoring and evaluation system agreed on with IDA and other donors, and
incorporate the findings of that system in regular progress reports [para 5. 1(ix)].
3.11    Management information systems (MIS). The MIS would be established within each
subprogram. Overall responsibility for the MIS would rest with the monitoring and evaluation
unit of the MAFF's Policy and Planning Division (PMEU). The MIS would contain data on each
subprogram's financial, physical, and personnel inputs and its outputs, which would be evaluated
against predefined performance indicators. The PMEU would prepare regular MIS reports,
disseminate them to the ASSC and participating donors, and interpret their results for
decisionmakers. The PMEU would also be responsible for identifying necessary corrective
actions and ensuring sub-program managers take those actions.
3.12    Impact evaluations and beneficiary feedback. The impact of subprograms on the
intended beneficiaries would be assessed annually through sample surveys and the systematic
client consultation (SCC). The main source of information would be an improved version of an
ongoing random sample survey of about 5,000 farm households. This survey, which covers all
districts, is conducted annually by the Central Statistical Office (CSO) to collect input and output
data and would serve as the main source of data for the quantitative evaluations (see annex 9).
Additional questions would be added to the survey's questionnaire to elicit mostly qualitative
feedback from farmers on their satisfaction with ASIP services and on the constraints that they
face. The data collected will be analyzed by gender and income categories. The SCC impact
evaluation surveys will be conducted by experienced investigators to verify and supplement the
quantitative evaluations.  The in-depth analysis of the quantitative survey and the impact
evaluation would be conducted by an independent Zambian institution. Results of both the
quantitative and the qualitative evaluations would be used to identify improvements to increase
the impact of ASIP activities.



- 35 -
Box 6 Systematic client consultation
Systematic client consultation is one of the ASIP's distinguishing features: it was
a key element during preparation and will continue to be essential during implementation.
The systematic consultations with the stakeholders - smallholder farmers - will serve two
functions: as an integral planning and implementation toolfor extension and research staff,
and as a means to obtain independent client feedback that will allow rapid adjustments to
program management. Both are consistent with greater decentralization of program
management to the district level. The first function requires that extension workers and
researcher be trained in participatory planning and implementation techniques so that they
can work systematically with the farmers toward meeting their priorities. The second
function would support qualitative assessments of the MAFF's response to priorities and its
delivery of services, and offarmers' responses to program initiatives and their perceptions
of the changing policy environment. And it would provide qualitative explanations of the
quantitative data being gathered for the sector performance indicators. Mechanisms for
consulting with other stakeholders affected by the sector approach also are being developed.
The results of the consultations would be continually analyzed as part of the review of the
ASIP's implementation. The exercise would also serve a broader purpose: the proposed
assessments would be integrated into Zambia's ongoing efforts to develop a poverty
monitoring system. The ASIP would draw on the group of Zambian professionals who
already have the ability to perform qualitative assessments, engaging local institutions to
carry out the assessments and to provide the necessary staff training.
3.13    Sector performance analysis. Because the ASIP encompasses the entire agricultural
sector, its impact would be best evaluated through an analysis of the sector's overall performance.
Thus, a sector performance analysis would be undertaken annually by the independent institution
that would also analyze the surveys. This analysis would attempt to explain the reasons for both
satisfactory and less than satisfactory results, and consider - in addition to the effects of
conventional inputs and weather variables - the impact on the sector of such factors as policy
reforms, international trade, and inflation. It would also assess the relative contributions of
subprograms to the sector's overall performance. The PMEU would be responsible for ensuring
that the methodologies of the surveys and the sector performance analysis conform to the highest
international standards.
C. Accounting, auditing, and reporting requirements
3.14    Accounting. The MAFF would maintain an accounting and control system capable of
reliably recording and reporting all financial transactions. Each participating agency would
maintain adequate accounting records to allow accurate and timely recording of its operations and
would prepare annual financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. These annual financial statements would be consolidated by the financial management
unit in the MAFF. Annual financial statements prepared for audit would consist of an income
and expenditure account for the year, cumulative accounts since Credit effectiveness, a summary
of the central special account, a summary of reimbursements and replenishments claimed under
the statement of expenditure (SOE) procedures, and statements of investment credits for private
sector development with participating banks.



- 36 -
Box 7 The possibilities of independent sector analysis
The Government has decided to engage an independent Zambian institution to
conduct an annual agricultural sector performance analysis. The methodology of the
analysis is expected to meet the highest international standards, and the resulting sector
report, to be mnade available to all donors and other interested parties, should be of high
quality. The analysis is expected to have important efficiency effects. It should enable the
Government to take timely corrective actions with respect to both policy and administration.
And, because of its high quality, it would make separate, donor-driven sector reviews
unnecessary and thus save donors the considerable costs they have incurred in the pastfor
such reviews. Moreover, as an exercise carried out by Zambians, the analysis is expected
not only to lead to obvious capacity building benefits, but also to produce proposals for
policy and other reforms that are more readily acceptable to the stakeholders and reinforce
commitment to the ASIP.
3.15    Auditing. Annual financial statements of IDA-financed components would be prepared
and audited in accordance with recognized auditing standards by suitably qualified independent
auditors. By September 30 of each year, the MAFF would submit to IDA audited financial
statements of investment credits for the preceding financial year, audited by private independent
auditors acceptable to the donors. In addition to separate audit opinions on the Credit accounts,
the auditor's report would include: (i) the statement of expenditure, (ii) the central special
account, and (iii) a long-form report or management letter commenting on the adequacy of the
accounting system and internal controls.
3.16    In addition, the financial management unit would contract external auditors to audit the
special account, the statement of expenditure, and the withdrawal applications every six months
and to assist the districts in improving their accounting practices. In particular, the auditors
would confirm that:
*     Procurement rules have been followed.
*     Fund withdrawals have taken place in accordance with ASIP procedures.
*     The ASIP funds have not been used to provide funds to parties other than
program beneficiaries.
*     Subprograms have not been financed twice through other donor funds.
*     Withdrawal applications fully document expenditures and include only eligible
expenditures.
*     Counterpart funds have been advanced in accordance with the agreed on work
program.
3.17    During negotiations assurances were obtained that the ASIP audit would be contracted
to private auditors acceptable to IDA [para 5. 1(x)].



- 37 -
3.18    Reporting. On the basis of information gathered from the implementing agencies and
units, the Policy and Planning Division of the MAFF would prepare semiannual and annual
reports on progress, problems, and issues covering every program component. Copies of the
reports would be submitted to IDA and other donors within two months after the end of the
reporting period [para 5. 1(xi)].
D. Program supervision
3.19    Ongoing supervision. The ASIP would require careful donor coordination for the
review of implementation performance. To facilitate donor collaboration, a donor supervision
team would undertake periodic performance reviews. The first donor mission would include a
program launch workshop to provide orientation and training for key staff in the implementing
institutions on the project cycle, procurement and disbursement procedures, accounting and
auditing requirements, and progress reporting requirements. Donors' subsequent review missions
would include an appropriate mix of skills for effective supervision of program components. In
consultation with donors, the Government would organize semiannual reviews to evaluate
implementation and, if necessary, to suggest changes needed to ensure that the program meets its
development objectives. In addition, there will be joint annual reviews of MAFF's budget (see
para 3.9). The MAFF would be responsible for coordinating joint donors' supervision missions,
and the Policy and Planning Division would be responsible for providing information required by
the missions. All beneficiaries would be required to supply information and reports as specified
by the Policy and Planning Division. For all such donor missions, the Government would provide
counterpart staff to participate in the missions' review processes. The annex 6 describes the
supervision plan while monitoring and evaluation is in annex 7. The supervision arrangements,
including the semiannual reviews, were agreed on at negotiations.
3.20    Nfidterm review. Donors and the Government would carry out a mid-term review by
the end of the second year following Credit effectiveness. The findings of the review would serve
as a basis for the preparation of the second phase (replenishment) of the ASIP. To prepare for
the review, the Policy and Planning Division, assisted by the program supervision team of
government and donor representatives, would prepare a detailed progress report covering the
entire period since program commencement. The report would include a thorough analysis of
implementation issues and results in the field, based on the findings of the monitoring and
evaluation studies and other sources of information. The report would also highlight the progress
made in achieving performance indicators. The midterm review arrangements were agreed to at
negotiations [para 5. 1(xii)].
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1     The ASIP would benefit Zambia's economy in several ways. First, it would foster an
enabling economic environment for private sector development by continuing to remove regulatory
and statutory restraints on competition, rationalizing the public sector's roles in the economy so
as to minimize the distortions created by government intervention, improving the effectiveness
of essential agricultural services to farmers, and increasing investments in rural infrastructure.
4.2     Second, the ASIP would provide a cohesive framework and combined resources for
Zambia's public agricultural sector investment program and all agricultural support services. The
public expenditure program would reflect not only sectoral priorities, but also the shared vision



- 38 -
of the Government and donors. The ASIP would therefore considerably increase the chances that
adequate funding would be provided. And the resultant resource allocation would be more
closely aligned with sectoral priorities and would result in more efficient utilization of public
sector resources.
4.3      Third, the ASIP would enhance the effectiveness of public sector management by
replacing more than 180 separate projects in the agricultural public expenditure program with
a single operation. Rather than having to oversee a large number of projects, which tends to
dissipate the public sector's limited management capacity, the MAFF could direct its limited
managerial capacity to one coherent set of priority programs. The ASIP would also provide a
set of priorities in which donors would be requested to invest. In addition, the coordination of
donor activities under the ASIP and the proposed reduction in public investments and subsidies
in agriculture, particularly for inputs, marketing, and credit, would result in cost savings of about
US$390 million, or 53 percent, in agricultural expenditures.
4.4      Fourth, ASIP services focus on small farmers, a group with substantial untapped growth
potential. Although these farmers are expected to benefit from the economic liberalization
achieved under the structural adjustment program, their limited technology and poor access to
markets impose severe constraints on their ability to expand their market share. By targeting
research and extension services to benefit smallholders the ASIP would help these farmers
improve their productivity. That in turn would lead to the production of marketable surpluses that
not only would increase small farmers' incomes, but also would encourage private sector
marketing. Thus, focusing on smallholders, the ASIP would be likely to raise the incomes of a
large proportion of the rural poor through its effects on productivity and employment creation.
4.5      The holistic nature of the ASIP and the difficulty of measuring the benefits from specific
subsectoral investments make it impossible to quantify its expected rates of return. Instead, a
break-even analysis of the investments is used to assess whether the benefits required to justify
the program are feasible. This analysis shows that at the discounted cost stream of 12 percent,
the program would need to result in an annual growth rate in agricultural GDP of 0.84 percent.
(This growth would need to be directly attributable to the ASIP and exclude the results from
increases in other inputs.) If the cost of the ASIP increased by 10 percent, the minimum
incremental growth in agricultural GDP directly attributable to the ASIP would have to be 0.93
percent. If the benefits lag by one year, the minimum growth rate would need to be 0.94, and
if by two years 1.05 percent. (See annex 9 for the details of this quantitative analysis.) Under
all reasonable risk scenarios, and given historical growth rates and the large gap between current
levels of output and the production frontier, such increases in agricultural growth are achievable.
The agricultural sector achieved an average growth rate of 3.3 percent between 1980 and 1992
under extremely adverse macroeconomic conditions.  In addition, smallholders, currently
producing about a third as much per hectare as commercial farmers, offer a considerable margin
for improvement.
B. Environmental sustainability
4.6      The ASIP would have positive environmental effects through its support for improved
farming and conservation practices. Its investments would be focused on such efforts as minimum
tillage, research on sustainable farming systems, and promotion of insitu soil and water
conservation. As a land-surplus country, Zambia has the potential for the sustainable expansion
of cultivated area on which the projections of its agricultural growth are in part based. In
addition, the National Environmental Action Plan to be implemented concurrently with the ASIP,



- 39 -
will restrict cultivation in environmentally sensitive areas. An Environmental Support Program
under preparation in the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources will also improve
environment-related institutional capacity in the country and address specific environmental issues.
Under the ASIP the purchase of agricultural inputs and chemicals deemed environmentally
unacceptable would not be permitted, and an environmental mitigation plan has been developed
to address any adverse environmental impact (see annex 11).
C. Risks
4.7      The ASIP could face many challenges during implementation. These challenges might
include inadequate funding of the Government's share of local costs, failure to decentralize
decisionmaking to local levels, failure by the donors to dovetail their projects into the program,
and derailment of the macroeconomic reform program.
4.8     Inadequate funding of local capital and recurrent costs due to unforeseen shortfalls in
government revenue or failure to integrate annual ASIP expenditures into the budget process could
lead to an erratic flow of funds and would greatly diminish implementation capacity. But shifting
from a project to a program approach would (a) minimize the duplication of activities, thus
releasing some resources to fund priority activities, and (b) permit the Government to anticipate
revenues and overall budget envelopes, thereby permitting more rational prioritizing and
programming of funds for the coming year. This holistic approach to sector management would
also improve the ability to forecast resource requirements and thus make it easier for the Treasury
to provide adequate resources. And the proposed annual review of the ASIP would help to
integrate annual programs into the budget process.
4.9     The success of programs such as the ASIP depends on decentralizing decision making
on development priorities and expenditure allocations so that beneficiaries participate in the
process. Failure to decentralize perpetuates the inertia of bureaucratic practices and risks the
continuation of "business as usual." The Government is fully aware of this risk and proposes a
decentralized implementation structure for the ASIP. It also proposes to establish a systematic
process for obtaining beneficiaries' views of the program. These actions should help to maintain
the ASIP's focus.
4.10    Donors and the Government agree that managing a portfolio of more than 180 projects
places an unsustainable demand on the MAFF's limited managerial capacity. Most donors have
expressed interest in restructuring their projects to fit into the ASIP framework, and there is broad
agreement that this should be done over a transition period of two to three years. Failure to
merge these projects into the ASIP would greatly undermine its potential benefits.  The
Government is preparing a time-bound program for this restructuring.
4.11    The success of ASIP depends above all on the continuation of the economic and
institutional reforms being implemented under the country's structural adjustment program, and
of the macroeconomic policy, which supports increased reliance on the private sector and fiscal
discipline to provide the resources for development. Although the Government of Zambia has
maintained its commitment to reform under difficult circumstances and there are no obvious
reasons that it might want to change course, the level of government commitment could
nevertheless change as a result of the national elections expected near the end of 1996. IDA
will maintain a close and continuing dialogue with all major actors on the economic and political
scene in Zambia so as to be able to anticipate major shifts in policy and take corrective action.



- 40 -
4.12    Despite considerable progress in the macroeconomic environment, some uncertainties
persist. The most important uncertainty is political. In anticipation of local elections this year
and national elections in 1996, the cabinet might authorize spending in excess of revenues. But
the Government's exemplary record of fiscal discipline suggests that this risk is small. Even the
unlikely event of change in government is not expected to derail the reform agenda because there
is broad public recognition that a return to high inflation would be disastrous. Another risk is that
the recurrent droughts in Zambia in recent years could lead to the reintroduction of agricultural
subsidies, particularly credit subsidies to vulnerable groups. But the Government recognizes that
credit subsidies are not an effective way to help vulnerable groups. Moreover, donors, which
have provided support in overcoming the adverse budgetary impacts of the recent drought, are
likely to continue to provide drought relief as long as the Government maintains prudent
macroeconomic policy.
V. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Assurances obtained at negotiation
5.1     Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would:
(i)     Implement the sectoral and policy reforms according to the Letter of Sector
Development Policy (para 2.10).
(ii)     Establish, by September 30, 1995, an interdisciplinary committee to
coordinate emergency disease control measures (para 2.25).
(iii)   Take all necessary steps by September 30, 1995, for privatizing or liquidating
Lima Bank (para 2.34).
(iv)    Cease budgetary allocations for agricultural credit by September 30, 1995
(para 2.34).
(v)     Develop selection criteria for investments under the rural investment fund
(para 2.39).
(vi)    Develop, by September 30, 1995, the scope and timetable for the state farm
privatization scheme (para 2.41).
(vii)   Maintain implementation arrangements under the ASIP that are satisfactory
to IDA and other donors (para 3.1).
(viii)    Provide, by September 1 of each year, a draft annual work program and
supporting budget estimates to IDA and other donors for comments, and
permit no additional public investments in the agricultural sector outside the
ASIP framework, as adjusted from time to time in agreement with IDA and
other donors (para 3.9).
(ix)    Engage an independent institution to carry out the annual ASIP impact
evaluations, beneficiary consultations, and sector performance analyses and
incorporate the findings in progress reports available to IDA and other donors
(para 3.10).



- 41 -
(x)     Appoint private auditors acceptable to IDA to audit the ASIP each year (para
3.17).
(xi)    Submit semiannual and annual progress reports to IDA and other donors
(para 3.18).
(xii)    Establish mutually acceptable guidelines for the midterm review (para 3.20).
(xiii)    Maintain the agricultural sector steering committee (ASSC) and the financial
management unit (paras 2.16 and 3.3).
B. Condition of effectiveness
5.2     The Government would establish a local currency account for ASIP counterpart funds
(para 2.59).
C. Condition of disbursement
5.3     Amendment to the Land Laws to facilitate the subdivision of land and implementation
of policy measures to provide for the subdivision and sale of state farms would be a condition of
disbursement for the land subprogram (para 2.41).
D. Recommendation
5.4     On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the proposed ASIP would be
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 41.2 million (US$60 million equivalent).



- 42 -
ANNEX - 1
Page 1 of 9
Mr. Lewis Preston
President
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Dear Sir,
RE: ZAMBIA-AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.0   Introduction
Zambia has great potential and opportunities for increasing agricultural production given its abundant
natural resources (land and water). As such the government accords significant importance to the
agricultural sector's potential contribution to GDP and export earnings, as well as employment creation
and income generation. The importance of the sector also lies in the fact that a large segment of the
population is dependent on the sector with about 50 percent of the population depending on agriculture
for their livelihood and 67 percent of the labor force employed in the sector.
The purpose of this letter is to brief you on the major constraints to realization of the sector's full
potential and current government policies, strategies and programs to address these problems.
2.0    Past and Present Policy Developments
Zambia's past economic policies were too restrictive and constraining as there was too much control
and interference on the part of government. This together with inadequate provision of essential public
services resulted in unrealized potential for the sector. This was especially serious in agriculture because
of the controls on crop and input prices, high level of parastatal activity in both marketing and
input supply, and high maize and fertilizer subsidies. The past strategy for developing small-scale farmers
relied on subsidized credit for inputs and marketing. These policies and strategies were obviously not
sustainable; and some of the discernible side effects include the following: a poorly developed agricultural
sector dominated by a single crop maize; huge Government expenditure on subsidies which contributed
to inflationary budget deficits; insolvent public marketing and farm financing agents; very low farm
productivity and incomes among small scale farmers; absence of private sector participation in the areas
of farm input supply, agricultural marketing and food processing; and eroded household food security.
Clearly, this scenario had to be reversed and corrected. Though attempts towards market liberalization
began as far back as the early 1980s, it was not until November, 1991 when the MMD came into office
that implementation of Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) gained momentum. Since then, the
Government of Zambia has adopted a vastly different approach to economic policies from that which
prevailed in the past decades. In the main, Zambia has undergone radical changes in the macro economic
environment following the implementation of SAP which primarily attempts to transform the Zambian
economy from a highly regulated one to one which is diversified and essentially driven by market forces.
The economic policy and institutional reforms embodied in the program are intended to enhance
more efficient resource allocation and improve the growth prospects in the economy.
The Government has made substantial progress in achieving and restoring financial and monetary stability.



- 43 -
ANSEX-I
Page 2 of 9
This has mainly involved decontrol of interest rates and prices, deregulation of exchange rates,
introduction of open treasury bill sales, government cash budget and generally tightening of money
supply growth in the economy, and a good revenue collection system. These measures, however, have
created new dynamics which are changing the conditions for conducting economic activities , but have
also resulted in a difficult economic and political transition, one characterized by a very tight
monetary and fiscal policy, coupled with high unemployment. However, the Government is strongly
committed to, and believes that the successful implementation of economic reforms combined with
increased transparency and accountability are essential ingredients in improving returns to investment,
general economic efficiency, growth and well-being of the Zambian people.  Clearly,  with
macro-economic stability the foundation has been created for positive real growth in the economy.
In line with SAP implementation, the agricultural sector is also undergoing liberalization with emphasis
on input supply and crop marketing (both domestic and international), agricultural pricing, withdrawal
of Government subsidies and privatization of agricultural parastatals.
Government has laid its goals and objectives in the "Framework for Agricultural Policies to the year 2000
and Beyond", and later the "Statement of Agricultural Policies". The agricultural sector is expected to
meet five broad goals, namely, national and household food security, income and employment
generation, maintenance and improvement of the existing agricultural resource base, contribution to
sustainable industrial development, and expanded contribution to national balance of payments by
expanding agricultural exports.
Despite these efforts, the agricultural supply response has not been robust. Recent performance has
been characterized by fluctuations in production and uncertainty in the marketing in both produce and
inputs as a result of radical changes that have occurred in the macro-economic and sector specific policies.
However, this situation is expected to be temporary because in the medium to long term, farmers and
traders should adjust to new economic conditions.
Other factors besides economic policy shocks have also contributed to the unsatisfactory performance
of the sector in recent years. These include a poor agricultural credit system and
recurrent droughts. The agricultural lending institutions have been unable to meet the high demand for
credit and have also performed poorly in terms of loan recoveries. The government has recently
completed a study of the agricultural credit system which recommended phasing out general credit
subsidies, rationalizing institutional roles and restructuring Lima Bank - the main government owned
agricultural credit bank. The challenges are to ensure that the majority of our small scale farmers have
access to financial services needed to finance agricultural activities and that a more viable and sustainable
agricultural credit system is put in place.
Drought effects have adversely affected the growth of the sector in recent years. During 1991/92 Zambia
suffered severe drought which left farmers with little or no crops to sell and immensely depleted livestock
levels. As a result, the sector's contribution to GDP fell by as much as 5 percent during the 1991/92
drought and by 1 percent during the 1993/94 drought.



- 44 -
ANNE 1-
Page 3 of 9
3.0    Strategies and Actions
The government intends to intensify its reliance on the private sector and free markets as the engines of
growth. Government and the private sector will play specific but complimentary roles. Already, many
former government functions are now being privatized and Government intends to restructure
public activities to support and complement the efforts of the private sector. It is recognized that like
everywhere else in the world, the full development of the agricultural sector depends upon both public
and private sector effort and involvement.
In order to achieve the goals outlined above, the main policy thrusts  will include:  liberalizing
agricultural markets; privatizing   and   supporting  private  sector   development; agricultural
diversification; placing emphasis on services to smallholders; implementing special actions to support
food security; helping to revitalize rural financial services; and making better use of available farming
land (see attached Policy Matrix).
Liberalization of Agricultural Markets: Positive steps have already been taken in this direction and it
is an on-going process. The policy of Government is to reinforce this process of liberalization by among
other things, relying increasingly on market based prices for all crops; lifting restrictions/ constraints
to domestic and international trade; reviewing and where necessary changing the relevant pieces of
legislation; and privatizing agricultural parastatals.
Increasing the Role of the Private Sector: The government is fully committed to rolling back the
extensive involvement of the public sector in economic activities. A number of enterprises have been
privatized including; Poultry Processing Company, Zambia Maltings Ltd, Nanga Farms Limited and
Agricultural Farming Equipment Limited (AFE). Several others are at an advanced stage of the
privatization process. These include; Zambia Agricultural Development Ltd. Farms i.e. Chilongolo,
Chainda, Hartley, Simmenthal and Holding farms and the Zambia Sugar Company Ltd. The Zambia
Privatization Agency (ZPA) continues to prepare eligible public enterprises for sale. When completed,
all the marketing and processing will be handled by the private sector. There are also a number of
services provided by the public sector including for instance, veterinary services for which the
government will seek increased cost recovery and outright privatization where the conditions are
appropriate.
Agricultural Diversification: In view of difficulties in growing and marketing crops such as maize in
some regions, Government is encouraging farmers to expand their crop portfolio so as to improve their
income base by growing high value crops which can easily be marketed and require less external inputs
and takes into account agro-ecological considerations. Some of the main economic activities include
growing of crops such as groundnuts, sunflower, soyabeans, tobacco and cotton. Other economic
activities  include  fish  farming,  poultry,  piggeries, horticultural and flower growing in the
peri-urban areas. The diversity in outputs will help reduce risk by broadening income sources and thus
enhancing household food security.
Improving Services to Smallholders: Taken as a group, Zambia's smallholders constitute a large
under-utilized resource in the economy. However, the quality of publicly funded agricultural support
services require significant improvement. In the areas of research, extension services, marketing, credit
and land tenure the Government will make special efforts to ensure that smallholders have full opportunity



- 45 -
ANNEX-1
Page 4 of 9
to share in the economic growth and development that is emerging under the new policy environment.
Some of the measures include making available appropriate and affordable yield enhancing technologies;
and availability of, and access to key inputs especially improved seeds, fertilizer and finance as well as
enhancing institutional capacities for land administration and surveys. Government is also putting a special
emphasis on ecologically sound farming practices to minimize unsustainable exploitation of the natural
resource base. This will be achieved by among other measures, technical messages on appropriate
crop rotation and diversification, and on integrating agro-forestry into farming systems. Furthermore,
improved management of available water and moisture can make a major contribution to improving
productivity of smallhaolder farmers and can help contribute to higher incomes and improved food
security. Wherever technically and economically feasible, small scale irrigation will be developed to help
increase cropping intensity and increase farm incomes.
Improving the Economic Status of Women: Women constitute nearly two-thirds of the rural population
in Zambia and account for over three-quarters of the agricultural labor supply. They also supply about
80 percent of the labor required for household food processing and haulage of farm produce, water and
fuelwood within households. However, women farmers have benefitted little from government supported
agricultural services such as extension and credit. In order to change this situation, agricultural research,
extension, credit, and land tenure policies will be structured so as to enhance the economic status of
women in the sector.
Making Better Use of Available Natural Resources: Zambia is a land surplus country and most
communities have easy access to traditional land. The main obstacles in these areas is the lack of
transport infrastructure. Many of these areas will become dynamic sources of growth as they become
more accessible. Access to land in areas close to the major transport corridors and in peri-urban areas is
slow and cumbersome. Land registration in areas where title deeds are available is very slow and the law
did not allow land subdivision for those who had surplus land to sell. Furthermore, recent surveys show
that at least (a third) of the land on large commercial farms is unutilized. The government has
therefore drafted legal reforms to the land tenure systems, and it is hoped that once enacted it would
improve land administration, allow subdivision and attract increased investment.
Food Security: Poverty and malnutrition are still major problems in Zambia. Furthermore, a large
number of Zambians are food insecure.To tackle these problems, government is developing broad and
comprehensive inter-ministerial response mechanisms to deal with emergency and chronic food insecurity.
Government will deal with transitory food insecurity through a national food reserve of one million bags
and a financial mechanism to finance imports.
Rural Finance: Government will improve smallholders access to credit and other financial services
as well as their sustainability by encouraging pluralism in the provision of financial services to the rural
sector, support the formation of smallholder savings and credit groups, provide the necessary legal
framework, and support sustainable private sector driven mechanisms for the provision of rural financial
services
Agricultural Sector Investment Program
The objective of ASIP is to achieve the five stated goals that government has set out for the sector. It will
be the tool that government intends to use to provide the complementarity between policy and institutional



- 46 -
ANNEX- I
Page 5 of 9
reforms on the one hand and public expenditure on the other. In so doing, ASIP seeks to make much more
effective use of all public funds from both donors and the Government. ASIP will for instance reduce the
proliferation of projects currently numbering over one hundred and eighty. It is a bold attempt by
government to harness its limited implementation capacity and to minimize overlapping and
frequently conflicting donor preferences. Government hopes that by so doing it will greatly contribute to
the effectiveness of development assistance. It represents a dramatic departure from the traditional project
approach and has the potential for significant improvements on efficiency, ownership, capacity
building and sustainability.
The seven main features that differentiate it from traditional projects are: (i) it covers the entire
agricultural sector; (ii) it has been prepared by our own specialists drawn from both the public and private
sectors; (iii) it would be implemented within the MAFF institutional framework; (iv) we aim to
standardize donors' implementation procedures, reporting, accounting and auditing requirements; (v)
the use of the long-term expatriate technical assistance would be kept to a minimum and short-term
technical assistance would be supplied on demand; (vi) it has a built in flexibility that allows for
annual reviews and adjustments; and (vii) it is imbedded in individual public sector reforms  in the
agricultural sector aimed at greater decentralization and beneficiary participation. It is likely to be less
susceptible to the traditional risks of complex project design and over-reliance on long-term technical
assistance that beset most projects and lead to failure. In addition, it is more likely to be sustainable and
to build capacity, since it would be managed by Zambians through normal government institutional
channels with a strong sense of national ownership. Finally, we see this initiative as a complement
to the ongoing-donor supported structural adjustment efforts.
Government fully realizes that none of the proposed actions under ASIP can succeed without changing
the implementation culture in Zambia. We intend to use all the available resources more fully, where they
are needed the most. The Government is therefore moving rapidly to decentralize implementation to the
District. The major aim of decentralization is to achieve efficiency in the management of public affairs
particularly the utilization of manpower and capital resources. The Government plans to use independent
Zambian institutions to carry out annual sector performance analysis including an assessment of the impact
on beneficiaries and on growth. We expect this independent annual sector performance analysis to be a
model for other sectors.
Of particular importance to Zambia has been the broad consultation and debate among stakeholders,
different Government Ministries and agencies and donors. The ASIP process has been instrumental in
developing a clearer understanding of the tradeoffs within agricultural subsectors and indeed across other
sectors. There is more awareness of the utility of thinking in holistic way. It is anticipated that this
approach will facilitate ongoing and timely examination of constraints to development while providing
a framework that will soon be tested through ASIP, for overcoming such constraints. Indeed, it is my
government's hope that the ASIP framework whose overall coordination and management will fall within
the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries will lead to a more vigorous sector performance that is
so essential in the battle against poverty and hunger and ultimately, the welfare of Zambian people.
Yours sincerely,
R. D. S. Penza, M.P.
MINSTER OF FINANCE
Cc. Hon. S. Zukas, M.P
Minister of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries.



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Draft Policy Action Matrix
Policy Objective                      Current Status                          Proposed Action              Responsibility and Timing
I. Marketing, Trade and
Pricing Policy
(i) Develop an efficient and  Reforms under the structural adjustment     * Lease all the excess storage         MAFF - During each annual
effective agricultural        program have removed most controls on       capacity on a continual basis.         review of ASIP
marketing and processing      input and output marketing and trade. The
system;  (ii) Develop a more   share of the private sector is growing only
efficient input supply system;    gradually because of a tight fiscal and
and (iii) Build a viable      monetary policy. Public storage is nearly all
agricultural export trade.    leased, but most of the leases are short term
because of the seasonality of the demand.
II. Privatization and
Private Sector Development
To enhance private sector     The Government has placed major parastatals    * Monitor status of ZPA divestiture  MAFF - During each annual
participation in agricultural  on the divestiture program of the Zambia   program.                               review of ASIP
development.                  Privatization Agency. The following
enterprises have been privatized: Poultry
Processing Company Limited; Agricultural
Farm Equipment Company; Nanga Farms
Limited; and Zambia Naltings. A further 23
companies will be privatized in tranche 2, 14
will be privatized in tranche 3, and 1 will be
privatized in tranche 4. These companies
include agricultural holdings such as farms,
fisheries and agro-industries such as milling,
brewing companies, and oil processing
companies. The pace of privatization is
constrained by the limited capacity of the                                                                     X
private sector to buy out these firms.
Government is also seeking immediate        * Implement cost recovery measures    MAFF - 6/95
increases in cost recovery in the provision of    for agricultural services.
agricultural services.



Eolcy Obhjective                     Current Status                         Proposd Action                 Rl i
m. Food Security
(i) Ensure adequate           The Government has an early warning        * Carry out a review of all public   Food and Nutrition Commission
household and national food  system and a nutrition status monitoring   sector funded chronic food insecurity  Completion date: 9/95.
security; and (ii) Ensure     system. There is good functional integration    programs, assess adequacy of funding,
special access to food by     with NGOs. There is a multiplicity of      propose ways of strengthening
vulnerable groups.           institutions dealing with chronic food      coordination.
insecurity. The current arrangements suffer
from poor interministerial coordination.
Government has passed new legislation that
will establish a food reserve and a financial
mechanism to deal with transitory food
insecurity.
IV. Rural Finance
00
To develop a sustainable      Substantial budgetary allocations for credit  * Cease government credit financing  MAFF/ Ministry of Finance
system of rural financial     with very poor collection; inadequate support   of farm input and produce marketing.    Provide evidence by 9/30/95
intermediation and to        for informal credit; the main public sector                                      showing no budgetary allocation
progressively eliminate      financial institution (Lima Bank) is insolvent.    * Restructure or liquidate Lima Bank    to rural credit.
unsustainable public sector   The Government has decided on an           and divest Government from the
credit programs.              immediate elimination of all commodity     Zambia Cooperative Finance Ltd. and    MAFF/Ministry of Finance
specific donor-funded credit programs. The  CUSA.                               Initiate steps to restructure or
Government is preparing a financial sector                                      liquidate Lima Bank by September
reform program that will address macro-    * Initiate pilot activities aimed at  30, 1995
financial issues comprehensively.         providing credit to smallholders on a
sustainable basis.
-'w
Xo _q



Current Status                         Proposed Action                Responsibility and Timing
Policy (bjective
V. Regulatory Framework
To modernize the laws to      There is a large body of agricultural     * Review agricultural legislation.    MAFF - 6/95
support current development    legislation that is outdated. An inventory of    The 3 main acts: Credit Act of 1962 in
requirements.                 all agricultural legislation has been done.  order to improve credit services to
Priority reforms will include easing entry and   smallholder farmers; the Cooperative
enhancing competition.                    Amendment Act to facilitate take-over
of government operations by
cooperatives and the Food Security
Reserve Agency Act to provide
mechanisms for combating transitory
food insecurity.
* Prepare a timetable to review the
VI. Public Expenditure                                                  remaining 30 or so Acts.
Analysis
To strengthen the link        The multiplicity of donors and programs    * Carry-out an annual review of      MAFF
between development           inhibited effective overview and monitoring.    public expenditures as a part of the
objectives and budgeting, and    The shift to a sectoral approach has provided    annual ASIP workprogram.
to ensure a timely analysis of    a framework for the coordination and
budget objectives against     rationalization of public expenditure.
actual expenditures.
Vo_



Poli  Objective                        CurrentStas                              Propod Action                    Rb                s
VII. Land Use and Tenure
Policy
To enhance the efficiency of   The Government consent to land transactions    *  All legislative issues are being   Ministry of Lands
the land market and            is slow. Land subdivisions are prohibited    handled under ESAC and have the
strengthen land management     and leases are short. There is active        following objectives: to extend land
capacity for survey and        discussion on land reform aimed at           leases from 14 to 99 years; to
registrations.                 improving tenure arrangements including      facilitate registration and titling of
registration, titling and leasing. No        traditional lands; and to allow
consensus has been reached yet on how to     subdivision and sale of state farms to
proceed with traditional lands because of    groups including provisions for
uncertainty over social and gender equity    allocations to landless people in peri-
issues. Proposed legislation has been drafted    urban areas.
and agreement on the reforms therein is a
condition of tranche release under ESAC.      * Establish criteria for land         MOL - 6/95
VIII. Monitoring and                                                        allocation.
Evaluation
To assess the impact of ASIP   The Central Statistical Office collects a large    * Establish an MIS.               MAFF
and its public expenditure     amount of data but it does not analyze it.
components on rural            No current information exists on the impact  * Adjust the CSO questionnaire to       MAFF
development.                   of public expenditures on target groups.     include beneficiary feedback and
impact assessment.
* Contract out the preparation of an   MAFF  First review by 12/95.
annual performance review of the
agricultural sector.
om



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM/SR994
proj.ct Cost suary
%     * Total
(KWACHA '000)                        (US$ '000)             Foreign    Base
Local       Foreign       Total       Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
1. MAFF HQ                       6,036,800   649,600.0   6,686,400   8,624.0         928.0   9,552.0          10         3
2. POLICY & PLANNING             2,819,212   4,644,889   7,464,100   4,027.4   6,635.6  10,663.0              62         3
3. FINANCIAL MGMT.UNIT           552,104.0   547,386.0   1,099,490        788.7      782.0   1,570.7          50         -
4. STANDARDS                     1,607,088   1,428,042   3,035,130   2,295.8   2,040.1   4,335.9              47        1
5. AGRIC.EXT.& INFO.            24,436,895  13,585,355  38,022,250  34,909.9  19,407.7  54,317.5              36       16
6. AGRIC.RESEARCH               10,428,292  11,956,378  22,384,670  14,897.6  17,080.5  31,978.1              53       10
7. ANIMAL PROD.& HEALTH         14,790,899  16,351,752  31,142,650  21,129.9  23,359.6  44,489.5              53        13
8. FISHERIES                     4,780,605   5,916,026  10,696,630   6,829.4   8,451.5  15,280.9              55        5
9. FARM POWER.& MECH.            731,181.5   1,248,419   1,979,600   1,044.5   1,783.5   2,828.0              63        1
10. IRRIGATION                   2,060,534   2,226,056   4,286,590   2,943.6   3,180.1   6,123.7              52         2
11. AGRIC.TRAINING               5,065,001   4,619,150   9,684,150   7,235.7   6,598.8  13,834.5              48         4
12. SEED MULTIP.&DISTR.          1,715,665   1,040,585   2,756,250   2,451.0   1,486.6   3,937.5              38         1
13. NEW PROD.DEV.                2,009,000   2,261,000   4,270,000   2,870.0   3,230.0   6,100.0              53        2
14. AGRIC.CREDIT               19,600,000  19,600,000  39,200,000  28,000.0  28,000.0  56,000.0               50       17
15. MARKETING & TRADE            5,671,379   7,042,301  12,713,680   8,102.0  10,060.4  18,162.4              55        6
16. RURAL INVESTMENT FUND        9,261,000   9,261,000  18,522,000  13,230.0  13,230.0  26,460.0              50         8
17. PRIVATZN.OF STATE LANDS   8,139,845   8,856,715  16,996,560  11,628.4  12,652.5  24,280.8                 52        7
Total BASKLINI COSTS              119,705,499 111,234,652 230,940,150 171,007.9 158,906.6 329,914.5              48       100
Physical Contingencies            3,239,649   3,560,249   6,799,898   4,628.1   5,086.1   9,714.1              52         3
Price Contingencies                        -   7,351,714   7,351,714            -  10,502.4  10,502.4         100         3
Total PRJECT COSTS                122,945,148 122,146,614 245,091,762 175,635.9 174,495.2 350,131.1              50       106



ZAMBIA
ARICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM/SR994
,z. 0t Ceot 8zay
*     * Total
(KNACHA '000)                       (USS '000)             Foreign    Baae
Local       Foreign      Total        Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
X. Invst at Coots
A. CIVIL WORKS              11,213,496   7,475,664  18,689,160  16,019.3  10,679.5  26,698.8             40         8
B. VEHICLES                           -  15,338,400  15,338,400           -  21,912.0  21,912.0         100         7
C. FARM EQUIP.               326,326.0   1,305,304   1,631,630        466.2   1,864.7   2,330.9          80         1
D. FIELD EQUIP.              647,192.0   2,588,768   3,235,960        924.6   3,698.2   4,622.8          80         1
E. LABORATORY EQUIP.                  -   2,834,020   2,834,020           -   4,048.6   4,048.6         100         1
F. OFFICE EQUIP.             873,908.0   3,495,632   4,369,540   1,248.4   4,993.8   6,242.2             80        2
G. WORKSHOP EQUIP.                    -   203,000.0   203,000.0            -     290.0      290.0       100         -
H. OFFICE FURNTR.            603,365.0   603,365.0   1,206,730        862.0      862.0   1,723.9         50         1
I. OVERSEAS TRAIN.           1,845,375  10,457,125  12,302,500   2,636.3  14,938.8  17,575.0             85        5
J. LOCAL TRAINING&WORKS.  12,462,240               -  12,462,240  17,803.2           -  17,803.2          -         5
K. TECHNICAL ASSIST.         4,178,734  16,714,936  20,893,670   5,969.6  23,878.5  29,848.1             80         9
M. RURAL INVESTMENT FUND   9,261,000   9,261,000  18,522,000  13,230.0  13,230.0  26,460.0               50         8
Total Inves  nt Costs           41,411,636  70,277,214 111,688,850  59,159.5 100,396.0 159,555.5             63        48
II. Rocurrent Costa
A. CREDIT                   23,275,000  23,275,000  46,550,000  33,250.0  33,250.0  66,500.0             50        20
B. STAFF SALARIES           18,354,280             -  18,354,280  26,220.4           -  26,220.4          -         8
C. STAFF ALLOW&EXP          16,075,150             -  16,075,150  22,964.5           -  22,964.5          -         7
E. OVERSEAS TRAVEL           483,504.0   2,739,856   3,223,360        690.7   3,914.1   4,604.8          85         1
F. LOCAL TRAVEL              148,330.0            -   148,330.0       211.9          -      211.9         -        -
G. CIVIL WORKS O&M           877,765.0   877,765.0   1,755,530   1,254.0   1,254.0   2,507.9             50         1
H. VEHICLES O&M              3,294,393   9,883,178  13,177,570   4,706.3  14,118.8  18,825.1             75         6
I. EQUIP. O&M                1,833,685   1,833,685   3,667,370   2,619.6   2,619.6   5,239.1             50         2
J. OFFICE CONSUMAB.          1,794,016   448,504.0   2,242,520   2,562.9         640.7   3,203.6         20         1
L. SUPPLIES&MATRLS.          7,597,800   1,899,450   9,497,250  10,854.0   2,713.5  13,567.5             20         4
M. SERVICES  /a              4,559,940             -   4,559,940   6,514.2           -   6,514.2          -         2
Total Recurrent Costs           78,293,863  40,957,438 119,251,300 111,848.4  58,510.6 170,359.0             34        52
Total BASXLrNZ COSTS            119,705,499 111,234,652 230,940,150 171,007.9 158,906.6 329,914.5             48       100
Physical Contingencies          3,239,649   3,560,249   6,799,898   4,628.1   5,086.1   9,714.1             52         3
Price Contingencies                      -   7,351,714   7,351,714            -  10,502.4  10,502.4        100         3
Total PROJzCT COSTS             122,945,148 122,146,614 245,091,762 175,635.9 174,495.2 350,131.1             50       106
\a Includes costs for water, electricity, telephones and postage.
i 



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM/SR994
Pro3.at Campnta by Tear
(USS '000)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996      1997       1998       1999       Total
1. MAFF HQ                      2,597.9   2,611.0   2,624.7   2,639.1  10,472.6
2. POLICY & PLANNING            3,463.7   2,502.9   2,270.9   3,321.6  11,559.2
3. FINANCIAL MGMT.UNIT            742.6      605.5      143.7      147.3   1,639.2
4. STANDARDS                    1,609.8   1,019.0       878.5   1,149.0   4,656.2
5. AGRIC.EXT.4 INFO.           17,417.6  13,038.8  12,108.7  15,393.1  57,958.2
6. AGRIC.RESEARCH              12,685.3   9,759.9   6,855.6   5,722.0  35,022.8
7. ANIMAL PROD.& HEALTH        15,937.3  12,198.6  10,830.8   9,347.3  48,313.9
8. FISHERIES                    7,436.8   3,931.9   2,806.9   2,445.4  16,621.1
9. FARM POWER.& MECH.           1,249.0      648.6      698.1      507.1   3,102.8
10. IRRIGATION                  2,936.0   1,658.4   1,141.9        962.3   6,698.6
11. AGRIC.TRAINING              6,864.0   3,445.5   2,542.7   2,169.3  15,021.5
12. SEED MULTIP.&DISTR.         3,925.5      131.6       79.5       82.7   4,219.3                                              tn
13. NEW PROD.DEV.               6,112.0          -          -          -   6,112.0
14. AGRIC.CREDIT                9,000.0  10,000.0  19,000.0  18,000.0  56,000.0
15. MARKETING & TRADE           5,916.8   4,431.8   4,040.4   4,999.8  19,388.8
16. RURAL INVESTMENT FUND    17,951.6   9,062.8             -          -  27,014.5
17. PRIVATZN.OF STATE LANDS   7,279.6   7,084.8   6,136.3   5,829.7  26,330.4
Total PFOJ3CT COSTS              123,125.5  82,131.1  72,158.7  72,715.8 350,131.1
ii|



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM/SR994
lxpenditure Accounts by Years
(USS '0001
Totals Including Contingencies
1996       1997       1998       1999      Total
I. Invnstment Costs
A. CIVIL WORKS              17,387.7   9,198.9   2,654.7         755.6  29,996.8
B. VEHICLES                 13,841.3   2,349.4   1,668.8   6,934.5  24,794.0
C. FARM EQUIP.               1,791.5       286.8      265.0      207.8   2,551.0
D. FIELD EQUIP.              1,548.9   2,241.7        814.4     557.4   5,162.3
E. LABORATORY EQUIP.         3,255.8       906.9      122.8      146.4   4,431.8
F. OFFICE EQUIP.             4,333.4       948.7     579.5   1,019.2   6,880.8
G. WORKSHOP EQUIP.              288.8       16.4        8.5          -      313.7
H. OFFICE FURNTR.            1,281.7       481.6       29.2       57.9   1,850.3
I. OVERSEAS TRAIN.           4,182.9   4,723.4   4,679.2   5,595.7  19,181.3
J. LOCAL TRAINING&WORKS.   3,298.6   3,529.3   5,204.2   5,771.1  17,803.2
K. TECHNICAL ASSIST.        10,630.3   9,837.5   7,616.2   3,741.9  31,825.9
M. RURAL INVESTMENT FUND  17,951.6   9,062.8              -          -  27,014.5                                                 4
Total Investment Costs           79,792.5  43,583.3  23,642.5  24,787.4 171,805.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. CREDIT                   15,750.0  11,250.0  20,250.0  19,250.0  66,500.0
B. STAFF SALARIES            6,734.0   6,495.5   6,495.5   6,495.4  26,220.4
C. STAFF ALLOW&EXP           6,220.7   5,580.6   5,580.6   5,582.6  22,964.5
E. OVERSEAS TRAVEL           1,586.6       923.2   1,074.1   1,410.0   4,993.9
F. LOCAL TRAVEL                  55.3       52.2       52.2      52.2      211.9
G. CIVIL WORKS O&M              372.0      742.4      880.4      928.8   2,923.6
H. VEHICLES O&M              3,956.5   5,535.6   6,350.5   6,613.5  22,456.1
I. EQUIP. O&M                   971.2   1,687.4   1,731.2   1,697.7   6,087.5
J. OFFICE CONSUMAB.             882.2      897.7      907.2      910.6   3,597.6
L. SUPPLIES&MATRLS.          5,014.3   3,593.1   3,403.2   3,193.8  15,204.3
M. SERVICES  /a               1,790.3   1,790.3   1,791.4   1,793.8   7,165.6
Total Recurrent Costs            43,333.0  38,547.8  48,516.2  47,928.4 178,325.4
Total PROJECT COSTS              123,125.5  82,131.1  72,158.7  72,715.8 350,131.1
\a Includes costs for water, electricity, telephones and postage.



ZAIBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMNT PROGRAM
MlIMSTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FOfOD AND nI8ERRIES
b( ag
m  EFrYmnn_9(1 
OcrTWICT10                                                                                                                                                    A. qW1 PTUM
DM lltf                                                                                                                                                       VZrAIV T
C<ZDA ADl                                                                                                                                                     COIIT. SIV.
IZ#4ZITC               l                                         ll
.   CONI    1g1 '. T.                 AB.  -TCZ.                                                              INPLSW
OVAODDUNrS~~II                                                                 ll      _{       Di IILVA  ADU        MANpI
I    t    If    I    11  Ad   I    s_    11 ^ffh  I~~~~L
C 0  I I EQ21 1  _i  I  Udob*1 (2                           LA"
|  a^  "_. 1 1 a I X I I = I~~~~~~~~~-pr&L(2
I  D"   I   lPak  I    I   _    I   I  o0   I   I   o          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
| ~~ , r; , | , r | 1 ,, 1 1 ,t,,..*, I a~~~~~~~~~SL I r Z
I ^_   I    I _ _   I | D.aw   I   I  aw I I   o  I   I  a ;   I  a"   I   I  aW 
s  W  I  I P_ I 1 9iE_ I I bia I r s~~~Oftf
_sX~~~~~~N                          _    o  .w   wII wI|a     



- 56 -                             ANNEX -
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Outline of Program Implementation Manual and Schedule
1.    Organization and Management of ASIP
a.    Organizational Structure
b.    Functions and Responsibilities
2.    Project Implementation and Impact Indicators
3.    Training and Technical Assistance Schedule
4.    Annual Operating Plan (by sub-program)
5.    Monitoring and Reporting
6.    Financial Management and Auditing - General Guidelines and Procedures'
7.    Supervision Plan
8.    Procurement2
a.    Guidelines
b.    Procurement Planning matrix (How, What, When and How much)
c.    Procedures
(i)    works
(ii)   goods
(iii)  technical assistant
Once the consultancy on this subject is completed, this section of the Project Manual
would have to be adjusted accordingly.
2 Guidelines (i.e., procurement methods and thresholds) agreed with the Donor agencies
and sumnnarized in the final version of the Project Manual.



- 57 -                            ANNEX - 4
Page 2 of 2
9.    Disbursements3
a.    ASIP's Internal Procedures
(i)    project accounts
(ii)   flow of funds
(iii)  authorized signatures
(iv)   supporting documentation.
b.    Procedures (checklist) for Replenishment of Funds (at the District Level)
c.    Sample Disbursement Application for Replenishment of Funds at the District
Level
d.    Disbursements Follow-Up Matrix (included in 8. c. above)
10.   Scope, Selection Criteria and Procedures for the Agricultural Investment Fund
11.   General Guidelines for Environrmental Assessment Reports4
a.    Environmental Screening Procedures
(i)    Rural Roads
(ii)   Small Irrigation and Drainage (I&D) Schemes
(iii)   Livestock and Rangeland Management
(iv)   Agroindustry
b.    Sample TORs
12.   Gender Issues - General Guidelines5
13.   Content of the Annual and Mid-term Reviews
14.   Covenants Matrix6
3 This section is intended to summarize local disbursement procedures.
4 It is recommended that a checklist summarizing the main environmental issues agreed
during appraisal be incorporated in the final version of the Project Manual.
5 Gender issues identified during appraisal could be summarized in this section of the
Project Manual.
6 Completed after Negotiations.



- 58 -                               ANNEX-5
Page 1 of 6
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Financial Management Unit
As the Agriculture Sector Investment Program (ASIP) is a government program, it will be
implemented using the government procedures of planning, budgeting, accounting, internal
control and financial management. The weaknesses of these systems is a source of concern to
the donors who believe the current system would not ensure full accountability of their funds.
The government system has a number of critical problems. First, there is little relationship
between plan objectives and budgetary allocations. Secondly, the provincial level commonly
forms a bottleneck in the flow of funds to the districts. The current system where funds are
disbursed from the Ministry of Finance through the office of the Provincial Permanent Secretary
to the Provincial Agricultural Officer and the Provincial Accounting Officer and then to the
district level has many levels for leakage of funds. Due to the failure of the Ministry of Finance
to disburse the funds budgeted in the annual budget (Yellow Book), the Provincial Accounting
Units (PACU) may not allocate these funds fairly between departments. Finally, funds allocated
to the Provincial Agricultural Office may be absorbed at the provincial rather than field level.
These problems are exacerbated by the complex financial regulations which focus is on control
rather than accountability. All funds are kept at the provincial level except for small cash
imprests held by the district. Districts face considerable bureaucratic hurdles to have funds
released and generally have little autonomy over their own expenditures. Often districts do not
know how much their annual budget allocation is or how much of it is spent.
The objective under ASIP is to ensure that there is full accountability for both government and
donor funds. Accountability would enable both the Government and donors to assess the
effectiveness and efficiency of the programs, ensure funds are used for the purpose for which
intended, and that they reach the intended beneficiaries. Such accountability demands a different
system of relationships from those noted above. The most significant one is the need to make
the district level more accountable. Accountability implies the power to control events, which
the districts do not have. With power to control their own expenses, the districts can be held
accountable for their financial performance. The question of decentralization and devolution of
fiscal controls to district levels is critical to the success of ASIP, and the Government is urged to
complete the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture Food and Fisheries (MAFF) and
provide interim guidelines for decentralization pending completion of the reform.
The MAFF has appointed the accounting firm Price Waterhouse to design a financial
management and accounting system which would also meet the information and accountability
requirements of different donors. The consultants' first report is expected at the end of October
1994. If MAFF adopts the report's recommendations, implementation of the new system could
start on a pilot basis before the year-end.
Until a system acceptable to the donors is in place and has been tried and tested, the donors have
agreed to maintain their respective financial management and accounting arrangements for the
ongoing projects. Transitional arrangements need to be in place for the transactions under ASIP.



-59-                                 ANNEX-5
Page 2 of 6
TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
MAFF has proposed setting up an ASIP Financial Management Unit (FMU) until the new
system is fully operational. This unit would be in charge of all issues of accountability,
disbursement, procurement and financial reporting under ASIP covering both donor and
governments funds. The FMU would have three divisions: Donor Funds, Budget Analysis, and
Government Accounts. The donor funds unit would be responsible for all donor coordination
and accounting, maintaining separate books for each donor, and submitting financial reports as
required.
Reporting Levels
The organization chart for the proposed unit is attached, and comprises of headquarters, the
provincial and district accounting units. The FMU would operate from headquarters in Lusaka,
and from nine provincial offices. The nine provincial offices would provide support to the
district offices in terms of cash management, completing financial returns, and any other
accounting matters. The size of the provincial office would depend on the capacity of the district
accounting units under its control.
Staffing
The proposed FMU would be staffed by well qualified personnel with a broad range of skills.
The senior officer would be an experienced, fully qualified accountant. Under him/her would be
three division heads, each with its own staff as follows:
Donor Funds Division
Principal Accountant
2 Assistant Accountants
5 Accountants
Typist
Budget Analysis Division
Chief Planner
3 Budget/Financial Analysts
Government Accounts Division
Principal Accountant
2 Senior Accountants
2 Assistant Accountants
5 Accounts Assistants
Typist
Staffing at the provincial and district levels would be as follows, although the numbers would
vary depending on the level of activity in the district and the human resource capacity of the
district managers.
Provincial Accounting Unit
Assistant Accountant
Accounts Assistant



- 60 -                               ANNEX-5
Page 3 of 6
Accounts Clerk
District Accounting Unit
Accountant/Assistant Accountant
Accounts Assistant
2 Accounts Clerks
Functions
The FMU and its subsidiary offices at provincial and district level would function as service
units providing accounting, financial and cash management services to program and sub-
program managers at the different levels. Spending decisions would rest with the line managers
at the lowest implementation level. The financial and accounting units would: (i) keep an up to
date record on availability of funds for disbursement to sub-programs; (ii) ensure that the funds
are disbursed according to the budget; (iii) check for compliance with procedures such as the
authorization of expenditure by the program manager; and (iv) provide periodic financial
information on program financial performance.
The description of activities which follows is limited to the functions of the Donor Funds
Division within the FMU.
Headquarters
The Donor Funds division would be in charge of: (i) maintenance of the ASIP special account to
ensure it is utilized in accordance with the donor terms; (ii) receiving funds from donors and
disbursing them to the provinces and districts depending on the sub-program implementation
level; (iii) liaising with the program managers on program budgeting, and level of donor
contributions; (iv) monitoring counterpart funding to the sub-programs and re-prioritizing when
necessary; (v) serving as an information center for various donor procedures; (vi) monitoring
returns from the provinces and districts and consolidating them to provide monthly financial
information to the Government and donors; (vii) preparing withdrawal applications for
replenishment of funds from the donors, and (viii) preparing quarterly and annual financial
statements for the donors. Separate cash books and ledgers would be kept for each donor at
headquarters and bank reconciliations would be prepared monthly.
The Provincial Level
The provincial level would provide operational support to the district accounting units. The
objective of this level is to ensure that the districts have support in particular upon the
implementation of the new system.  Support would cover cash book maintenance, stock
management, compliance to procurement procedures and the preparation of monthly accounts.
The amount of support provided will depend on the level of skills at the district level. Initially,
the FMU would introduce tight controls on matters such as procurement where procurement
limits for the districts would be low. The provincial unit would assist the district in processing
and recording procurement, and would assess over time the ability of the district to perform all
accounting functions independently, in which case more responsibility would be passed to the
district accounting unit.



- 61 -                                 ANNEX -5
Page 4 of 6
District Levels
The following functions would be performed at district level: (i) receiving funds from the FMU;
(ii) disbursing funds to the different programs; (iii) checking compliance with procedures before
disbursement of funds; (iv) maintenance of bank account and cash book; (v) maintaining of
imprests; (vi) accounting for imprests; (vii) preparation of monthly expenditure summaries for
submission to the FMU; (viii) maintenance of a fixed asset and stock control systems; and (ix)
maintenance of separate ledgers for each donor.
On a monthly basis, the units would provide information to sub-program  managers on
transactions for the various sub-programs which the managers can use to assess their programs,
and reconcile with their own information.
The System
The objective of the proposed system is to ensure that funds reach the intended beneficiaries, and
that different donors can monitor their contributions.
Funds would be disbursed from the Donor Funds division at headquarters direct to either the
program or the district accounting unit, with a detailed breakdown of the allocation to the various
programs based on the program budgets and donor contributions. A copy of the allocation would
be sent directly to the manager of a sub-program to ensure that the program management is
aware of the funds allocated to it. The accounting units would maintain cashbooks to record all
donor cash movements under ASIP and open subsidiary ledgers for each program. All payments
would be made by the accounting unit upon receipt of proper authorization by the program
managers and district and/or provincial agricultural officers as appropriate.
At the end of each month, the accountants would prepare an expenditure summary by program
from the cash book and the ledgers. The monitoring function for unretired imprests would be at
the district level. No new funds would be disbursed before retirement of all imprests and the
receipt by the FMU of the expenditure summary.
The expenditure summaries prepared by the district accountants would be forwarded to program
managers and the Donor Funds division at the FMU, showing the comparisons between the
budgeted and actual expenditures and the cash balances available for the sub-programs. The
FlMU would check the validity of the expenses, compare them to budgets, and use the summaries
as a basis for the preparation of withdrawal applications. The summaries would be sent to the
FMIU together vvith supporting documentation and copy invoices where applicable.
Where therc are dilfterent donors in the same district, separate books would have to be
maintainied for each donor. Staffing would be adjusted accordingly.
To put the proposed systern in place, it is critical that a financial controller be appointed to: set
up the accounting and finiancial reporting system at the FMU; acquire computer hardware and
softw'are: designi appropriate reporting forimis; write up the accounting manuials, design the coding
structure to take account of the different donors and the sub-programs; institute internal controls
at provincial and district levels, appoint district and provincial accounting staff, and design
training courses for them.



-62-                                ANNEX-5
Page 5 of 6
For activities such as research whose activities cannot be coordinated at district level, the
stations would maintain books which have been suggested for the district level, and perform the
same functions as noted for the district accounting unit. Support to these stations would be
provided by the provincial accounting unit and the accounting unit at Mount Makulu.
The Role of the Internal Audit Department
The Internal Audit Department would play an important role in the system to ensure that funds
reach the intended beneficiaries and are used for purposes for which intended. An internal audit
unit based within MAFF, and dedicated to ASIP, would carry out periodic checks of the system
and transactions, and report directly to MAFF and the donors. Checks would be made both at
district and provincial levels. The department would check expenditure summaries prepared by
the districts and trace some items through the system; and also check the supporting
documentation for withdrawal applications submitted to the donors for replenishment of funds.
External Audit
In addition to the annual audit, external auditors would be requested to carry out six monthly
audits of the Special Account and SOE withdrawal applications.
REPORTING
Reporting under the system would include: (i) expenditure summaries from the district and
program stations to the FMU, (ii) expenditure summaries to program managers; (iii) monthly
reports prepared by the FMU summarizing the monthly financial transactions; and (iv) quarterly
and annual financial statements from the FMU to the donors. The financial statements would be
detailed to show funds received from each donor and expenditure by category by donor, and the
consolidated statement for the project.
ADVANTAGES OF PROPOSED SYSTEM
The advantages of the proposed system include the following:
* Funds would reach the intended beneficiaries, overcoming the bottlenecks in the government
system where funds do not reach the field level .
*  Funds for each donor would be separately accounted for and could be traced to the district
level.
*  There would be a communication link between the districts and the center, enabling better
monitoring of utilization of funds at the district level by the center.
*  There would be a built-in mechanism  to allow donors to trace funds to intended
beneficiaries.
*  Accountability would be transferred to the district level.
*  Tight control would be maintained at the central level which would make release of new
funds conditional upon receipt of satisfactory withdrawal applications.



-63-                                ANNEX-5
Page 6 of 6
Support would be provided to those districts and programs with weak human resource
capacity through the FMU provincial accounting unit.
The long term objective of MAFF is the setting up of a fully decentralized accounting system,
with sufficient internal controls, transparency, and financial reporting mechanisms to meet the
information needs of both the Government and the different donors and ensure funds reach the
intended beneficiaries.  The final consultants' report will be the basis for this financial
management and accounting system. The MAFF and the consultants will work closely with the
donors to ensure the proposed system meets the information needs of both the government and
donors, and avoid the duplication in accounting systems which would be necessitated by
different donor and government information requirements.
COSTS
The costs associated with the implementation of the system are:
Personnel costs     US$850,000
Equipment           US$250,000
Training            US$500,000
Total               US$1,600,000



ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Financial Management Unit
|  eadquarters     l
Provincial                     Provincial                     Provincial
Accounting Unit                Accounting Unit                Accounting Unit
/ /                                /\//    7/\
District        District        District District District District
Accounting      Accounting      Accounting      Accounting      Accounting      Accounting      Accounting
Unit            Unit            Unit            Unit            Unit            Unit            Unit



- 65 -                         ANNEX -
Page 1 of 1
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Supervision Plan
1.    A Donors' supervision team would review ASIP implementation perfornance by: (a)
keeping IDA/donors informed on progress and issues affecting implementation; (b) analyzing
relevant macroeconomic and sectoral policies and occurrences influencing implementation; (c)
examining the status of and supporting ASIP components that are falling behind implementation
schedules; (d) participating in donors' supervision missions; and (e) following up on MAFF
compliance of IDA/donors' supervision mission recommendations. The Bank's input into key
supervision activities is given in Appendix 1.
2.    The first donors' mission would include a Program Launch workshop to provide
orientation and training for key staff in the implementing institutions on: the project cycle;
procurement and disbursement procedures; accounting and auditing requirements; progress report
requirements; special account operations, and so on. The GRZ will, with the team's assistance,
organize semi-annual and annual reviews with donors to evaluate the progress and status of
implementation and, if necessary, amend ASIP to ensure that its development objectives will be
achieved. The annual review, held in September/October each year, will coincide with a meeting
of the Agricultural Sector Steering Committee for reviewing MAFF and other ASIP implementing
institutions' budgets for the coming year.
3.    Mid-Term Review. A mid-term review will be carried out by the GRZ and IDA/donors
by the end of the second year following Credit Effectiveness, and Government will undertake to
implement its findings. On these findings will be based the preparation of ASIP second phase.
The supervision team will assist the GRZ in the preparation of a detailed progress report for the
mid-term review, covering the period from project conmmencement and including a thorough
analysis of implementation issues and progress made in achieving key ASIP performance
indicators. An evaluation of the Supervision Team's effectiveness will be made during the annual
supervisions and a detailed evaluation will be included in the mid-term review.



- 66 -                        ANNEX - 6
Appendix 1
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Supervision Plan: Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate Dates                                                     Expected Skill                Staff Input
(month/year)                           Activity                      Requirements                  (Staffweeks)
03/95              Board approval
05195               Pre-effectiveness Mission:                        Supervision*                       10
Team
Check progress on conditions of effectiveness
Key activities, by component:
Finalize Funds Flow Arrangements
07/95               Program launch workshop
- project cycle
- procurement                                                                    20
- disbursement
09/95               First Full Review                                 Supervision*
Team                               20
Focus on technical issues
- disbursements, procurement,
reporting
- commercial bank participation
- farmers clubs, capacity building
FY97                Supervision Missions (2 per year)                Supervision*
- budgeting/funds flow                        Team                               30
- quality of reporting
- capacity building
FY98               Supervision Mission: focus on commitment of funds   Supervision
- achievement of development objectives       Team                               30
- review of project implementation
- review of legal covenants (esp. audit
and reporting requirements)
Mid-term Review                                  Supervision*
- achievement of development objectives       Team                               20
- design elements for Phase 11
FY99               Supervision Missions (2):                         Supervision*                       30
- achievement of development objectives       Team
- review of project implementation
FY2000             Supervision Mission                               Supervision*                       30
- achievement of development objectives       Team
- prepare for PCR
*        A basic supervision team led by the Task Manager, comprising a Financial Analyst and Agricultural Specialist will be
supplemented by environment/procurement/disbursement specialist or persons with other required skills.



- 67 -                          ANNEX - 7
Page 1 of 4
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and Evaluation
1.    The progress and impact of individual ASIP sub-programs will need to be monitored and
evaluated regularly so that timely adjustments can be made. Also, insofar as ASIP covers the
entire agricultural sector, decision-makers will want to know periodically about the overall
performance of the agricultural sector and the contributions of individual sub-sectors (sub-
programs) to that performance. A single M&E system will be established to meet these various
needs generated by ASIP. This system will in addition serve any "special" donor-supported
initiatives that may emerge, and no other parallel M&E systems will be created.
2.     ASIP's M&E will have three components: (i) management information systems (MIS),
(ii) impact evaluations of individual sub-programs and beneficiary assessments and feedback, and
(iii) sector performance analysis.
MIS
3.    A study is being commissioned to work out the details of the MIS which will be
established in each sub-program. Since the MIS is a management tool, the design of each sub-
program will take account of the organizational structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Fisheries (MAFF) and the corresponding functional  responsibilities. In the context of the
planned decentralization, particular attention will be paid to the reporting system and to ensure
the smooth flow of information on the implementation of various sub-programs to managers at
different levels (the Ministry, provinces, districts, camps). As the information requirements in
terms of coverage and detail will vary from one level to the next, emphasis will be on determining
precisely what information different decision-makers need and providing this information so as
not to overwhelm them with extraneous detail. For instance, a manager at a lower level where
implementation occurs will require detailed information on individual activities, as it is at this
level that any corrective action which may be needed will have to be taken. On the other hand,
a department director at the Ministry responsible for an entire sub-sector is less likely to be
concerned with the operational details underlying individual activities, and more with the
aggregate contributions of individual activities to the performance of the sub-sector. Also, a
feedback mechanism will be instituted in conjunction with the MIS to ensure that managers utilize
the information supplied to them. The MIS will provide information on physical, personnel and
financial inputs as well as outputs; the performance indicators defined in the ASIP sub-program
preparation reports will be used to monitor sub-program outputs.
Impact Evaluations/Beneficiary Assessments
4.     The impact of individual sub-programs will be evaluated annually. The evaluations will
have two components. One will utilize quantitative data to measure the impact of the services and



- 68-                             ANNEX - 7
Page 2 of 3
inputs associated with individual ASIP sub-programs on production and incomes. The other
component, systematic client consultation, will comprise feedback from the intended beneficiaries
on the effectiveness of these sub-programs in terms of their design features. Besides providing
a check on the results of the quantitative evaluations, this will help to identify required
improvements to increase the impact of sub-programs on the intended beneficiaries.
5.     The impact evaluations will be entrusted to a Zambian institution outside the central
government so that objectivity can be maintained. A decision on the institution will be taken by
June 1995, prior to the ASIP effectiveness. The selected institution will be provided with terms
of reference and enter into a formal contract with MAFF, which will determine the remuneration,
as well as obligations in terms of producing work of an internationally acceptable standard in a
timely manner. It may be provided some assistance under ASIP (equipment, training) to develop
its capacity.
6.     A major source of the data for the impact evaluations will be the farm surveys conducted
annually by the Central Statistical Office (CSO). The CSO data will be supplemented, as needed,
by climatological data, other economic data and special studies. Each year, the CSO collects data
-- on crop production and areas, crop sales, livestock inventories and sales, fish production, fruit
and vegetable production and sales, the availability of farm machinery and draft power, and input
use (seed, fertilizer, and family and hired labor) -- from a random sample of 5,000 small- and
medium-scale farmers, as well as all large commercial farmers in the country. This random
sample appears to be widely representative insofar as it includes farners from all districts. The
CSO enumerators administer three surveys, on separate visits, to the sample farmers. The first
survey is administered in December as the agricultural season is beginning; the second is
administered in March, and the third in October when the harvesting has been completed.
Additional questionnaires will be appended to the existing surveys to obtain farmers' assessments
of ASIP sub-programs. Any additional input or output data required for ASIP will be similarly
obtained.
7.     While the detailed analysis will be the responsibility of the external institution entrusted
with the impact evaluations, the CSO will be expected to undertake some elementary statistical
analysis of its farm data. Using simple statistics (such as means, ratios and percentages), this
analysis will organize the data by geographical areas (provinces, districts, etc.), as well as by
"target" groups (female-headed households, emergent commercial farmers, food-insecure
lhouseholds, etc.) which are being defined for ASIP.
Sector Performance Analysis
8.     The agricultural sector performance analysis is likely to be entrusted to the same
institution as the impact evaluations. In addition, the CSO surveys will again serve as the main
source of data. The sector performance analysis will determine not only the relationship between
production and conventional inputs (including weather variables), but also the relative impact on
sector performance of such factors as changes in government policies, exchange rates, interest
rates, inflation, and the availability of credit. A particular emphasis of the analysis will also seek
to ascertain the relative contributions of individual ASIP sub-programs to the overall performance
of the agricultural sector.



- 69 -                              ANNEX - 7
Page 3 of 3
Role of MAFF's Policy and Planning Division
9.     The Policy and Planning Division's M&E unit will play a central part in the management
of the M&E system. It will have the primary responsibility for the MIS, and co-ordinate the roles
of the CSO and the external institution selected to undertake the impact evaluations and the sector
performance analysis. It will be responsible for concluding the contractual arrangements with the
CSO and this institution (on behalf of MAFF) and enforcing these arrangements, especially to
secure the timely delivery of data and analytical reports. It will also be expected to arrange
reviews for these reports to ensure that they meet internationally acceptable standards.
10.    The M&E unit will have an important interpretive role to play as well.  It will be
responsible for interpreting the results of the M&E studies for managers and policy-makers, and
providing them with summaries. It will also identify the follow-up actions indicated by these
studies, and ascertain that these actions are taken. The unit will be responsible for providing the
M&E reports to all participating donors.
Steering Committee
11.    A steering committee -- to be chaired possibly by the Director of MAFF's Policy and
Planning Division and including representatives from the CSO, the external institution and the
Policy and Planning Division's M&E unit -- will be established to oversee the M&E operation.
An important function of this committee will be to affirm the quality and timely completion of
the various tasks involved in the M&E.
Special Studies
12.    Provision is being made for special M&E studies for which need may arise during the
course of implementation. In as much as these studies may require special data collection efforts
such as rapid rural surveys, they can be undertaken in the intervening periods between October,
December and March when the CSO enumerators are relatively free.



- 70 -                         ANNEX - 8
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
IDA Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Quarter                                  Quarterly                  Comnulative
Ending                                   Disbursement               Disbursement
FY 1996
September    30, 1995                        1.5                          1.5
December    31, 1995                         2.0                         3.5
March        31, 1996                        2.5                         6.0
June         30, 1996                        2.5                          8.5
FY 1997
September    30, 1996                        3.0                         11.5
December    31, 1996                         3.0                         14.5
March        31, 1997                        3.0                        17.5
June         30, 1997                        3.5                        21.0
FY 1998
September    30, 1997                        3.5                        24.5
December    31, 1997                         3.5                        28.0
March        31, 1998                        4.5                        32.5
June         30, 1998                        4.5                        37.0
FY 1999
September    30, 1998                        4.5                        41.5
December    31, 1998                         4.5                        46.0
March        31, 1999                        4.0                        50.0
June         30, 1999                        4.0                        54.0
FY 2000
September    30, 1999                        3.0                        57.0
December    31, 1999                         3.0                        60.0



- 71-                                           ANNEX - 78
Page 2 of 2
ESTIMATED IDA FUNDING FOR ASIP SUB-PROGRAMS
SUB-PROGRAMS            SUB-PROG.COSTS          IDA FUNDING
(USSMillion)          (US$Million)
INSTITUTION BUILDING          MAFF IIQ                                   $10.5                   $0.0
Policy & Planning, M & E                   $11.6                  $8.0
FMU                                         $1.6                  $1.0
Standards                                   $4.7                  $2.5
Sub-total                                  $28.4                 $11.5
PUBLIC INVESTMENT             Agri. Extension&nformation                 $58.0                  $21.5
Agrk. Research                             $35.0                  $4.0
Animal Production&Health                   $48.3                  $0.0
Fisheries                                  $16.6                  $0.0
Farm Power&Mechanization                    $3.1                  $0.0
Irrigation                                  $6.7                  $0.0
Agric. Training                            $15.0                  $8.5
Sub-total                                $182.7                  $34.0
PRIVATE SECTOR DEV.           Seed Multiplication&Distr.                   $4.2                  $0.0
New Products Development                    $6.0                  $0.0
Rural Finance Credit
Agric. Inputs                           $56.0                  $0.0
Marketing&Trade                         $19.4                  $0.0
Sub-total                                  $85.6                  $0.0
PUBLIC INVEST. SCHEMES   Rural Investment Fund                           $27.0                  $10.0
Privatization of State Farms               $26.3                  $4.5
Sub-total                                  $53.3                 $14.5
TOTAL                                     $350.0                 $60.0



-72 -                           ANNEX - 9
Page 1 of 7
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Economic Analysis
Introduction
1.    Normal Bank practice is to derive economic rates of return for agricultural projects and
programs using farm models. Estimates are made of the frequency of adoption of each of the
farm models over the life of the project and the net income gain from adopting each model to
calculate the aggregate net benefit stream. The benefit stream is then compared to the project cost
stream to derive the ex-ante rate of return. At the end of the project the ex-ante rate of return
is recalculated based on M & E data on project imiplementation and adoption rates of the models,
changes in prices and changes in project costs. Years later an impact evaluation may be done
where actual on farm performance is measured via farm surveys, a step not done in the
recalculated returns.
2.     For ASIP another procedure is proposed. Given the sector-wide coverage and the large
number of sub-programs involved, determining an economic return using this approach would
entail the calculation of dozens of model farms, with insurmountable quality control problems.
On the other hand, the sector wide M&E program opens up the possibility to advance the
evaluation by years, since it is based on an annual survey of farms carried out by the Central
Statistics Office of the Government of Zambia. These surveys can be used to evaluate the impact
of the program with only a one or two year lag. A project completion report should therefore
be able to compute an actual rate of return of the program, based for example on what happened
by the third year and projections based on them for the fourth and subsequent years.
3.     The economic analysis of the program is therefore proposed in two steps. The ex-ante
analysis will be performed using a break even analysis of the incremental cost and benefit streams
at the national level. The ex-post analysis will be based on an econometric estimation of actual
rates of return to rural households from ASIP investments using data from the M&E surveys and
the projections based on them.
The Model
4.     The economic returns to ASIP will be measured as the change in producer surplus
approximated as the change in aggregate net farm income attributable to public investments in
ASIP. This requires netting out the changes in net farm income caused by other factors such as
increased levels of private investment in agricultural inputs, changes in prices or changes in
exogenous variables.



- 73-                              ANNEX - 9
Page 2 of 7
5.     Conceptually this can be done by defining the following aggregate net farm income
function.
Y = f(ASIP, X, W,P)
where Y              national aggregate net farm income.
ASIP   =      a vector of ASIP subprograms.
X      =      a vector of private investments in agriculture.
W             a vector of control variables for exogenous factors.
P      =      a vector of input and output prices.
6.     The vector ASIP includes sub-programs in agricultural research, agricultural extension,
animal production and health, irrigation, farm power and mechanization, marketing and trade,
standards, new product development, agricultural training, fisheries, policy and planning, food
reserve agency and agricultural credit. For the purpose of the ex-ante analysis, the cost of these
programs is used as a measure of input. The vector X includes land, labor, capital and purchased
inputs. The vector W includes variables for weather, outbreaks of disease, etc. that cause changes
in aggregate net farm income.
7.    In both the ex-post and the ex-ante analysis the objective is to measure the partial effect
of the public investment in ASIP, 6Y/8ASIP. Ex-post this can be done by estimating the
function econometrically and then deriving the partial effect of each input in the function,
including ASIP. Since the coefficients of the net farm income function are not available for the
ex-ante analysis, a break even analysis is used to calculate the min(6Y/6ASIP) such that the net
present value of the ASIP investment is greater or equal to zero.
The Ex-ante Analysis
8.    The purpose of the ex-ante economic analysis of ASIP is to investigate whether the overall
investment program and its individual sub-programs are economically viable in the current
economic and production environment in Zambia. Given the holistic nature of this program and
the difficulty of measuring the benefits from specific subsectoral investments ex-ante, a break even
analysis of the investments is used to determine the minimum growth in net farm income required
to justify the proposed cost stream, holding other inputs and conditioning factors constant. Since
the incremental change in net farm income is equal to the incremental change in agricultural GDP
under these assumptions, the minimum growth rate will be calculated in terms of agricultural
GDP. This is in line with the Bank's standard practice, however it should be noted that the
program is likely to have additional benefits in the form of rural poverty reduction, better
environmental management, food price reductions in the urban areas for non-tradables and semi-
tradable agricultural commodities which are not taken into consideration because they are difficult
to quantify.



- 74 -                           ANNEX - 9
Page 3 of 7
9.     The minimum growth in agricultural GDP, r,1, as a result of the four year incremental
investment in ASIP is calculated as follows.
rmin    =     is a vector of minimum annual growth rates
=      min(r,) t = 0,l....oo
such that  PV(ASIPCO,) < PV(GDP, - GDPO) for all t = 0,1.
where
PV             =      present value
ASIPc,         =      a vector of ASIP costs
GDPt           =      agricultural GDP in year t
= (l+r) GDP,-, for all t = 1,....oo
GDPo           =      Agricultural GDP in year zero
r,             =      constant for all t = 0,1,2 .... 8
and 0 for all t = 9,10.oo
10.   In carrying out this analysis, the following assumptions are made.
i)     The incremental cost of the ASIP program is calculated as the difference between
the total cost of ASIP and the minimum level of public expenditure in agriculture
that could maintain agricultural GDP at existing levels.  In this case, the
minimum maintenance level is assumed to be the current level of Government
expenditure in the agricultural sector.
ii)    All non-ASIP inputs and other exogenous factors are held constant, facilitating
the calculation of minimum GDP growth rate required from public expenditures.
iii)    The benefit stream from ASIP investments would produce a constant GDP growth
for a period of 8 years after which GDP levels resulting from this investment
would remain constant, i.e. the elevated GDP level in year 8 would be
maintained in perpetuity.  This does not presume that overall growth in
agricultural GDP would be zero after year 8 since new investments after the four
year ASIP investment period would induce further growth.
iv)    The current level of GDP is the baseline against which any increased output as
a result of ASIP is measured.
v)     A discount rate of 12 percent is used to calculate the present values for costs and
benefits.
vi)    A farm income - non-farm income multiplier of 1.3 is used to account for the
increase in non-farm income to rural households as a result of increases in
agricultural income (Hagblade, et al, 1991).
11.    The minimum levels of GDP growth required to justify the proposed stream of ASIP
investments are presented in Annex Table 9.1 together with the results of a sensitivity analysis
examining the effect of a 10 percent increase in cost and the effect of a one year lag in the benefit



- 75 -                         ANNEX - 9
Page 4 of 7
stream. Since all prices and the levels of non-ASIP inputs are assumed to be constant, these
levels of GDP growth are equivalent to the total factor productivity (TFP) measure typically used
in ex-post analyses of agricultural growth. A comparison of the minimum levels of GDP growth
required to justify the incremental investment in ASIP with TFP levels achieved by other
countries in the region shows that historical TFP levels are typically higher than those required,
supporting the argument that these minimum growth levels are achievable (Annex Table 9.2).
Adjustments are needed when comparing these minimum required growth rates to historical
agricultural GDP growth rates since historical rates include both total factor productivity increases
and increases due to increased input use. Historical growth rates are useful in that they provide
an indication of the upper bound of historical total factor productivity increases. The growth in
total agricultural GDP between 1980 and 1992 was 3.3 percent and was achieved under extremely
adverse economic conditions. If agricultural GDP continues to grow at this rate, the total factor
productivity would make up 25 percent of the total increase in output. This is considered to be
easily achievable since total factor productivities typically make up 60 percent of the total increase
in output. Therefore, given the conservative assumptions made in this analysis, it is entirely
feasible that the public sector investment under ASIP could induce the minimum growth rate
required to justify the proposed overall level of expenditure.
12.    The feasibility of achieving this level of total productivity growth is further supported by
examining the current level of productivity. Small farmers in Zambia, who are the primary focus
of the ASIP program, have historically operated at a level significantly below the technological
frontier. This provides considerable potential for a rapid growth through increases in factor
productivity.  In the crop subsector, the average maize yield in the small-holder sector is
estimated to be 2.3 ton/ha compared to 3.5 ton/ha achievable under optimal husbandry practices
using local maize seed and no chemical fertilizers. In the livestock subsector, the takeoff rate
for small holder farmers is 6 percent compared to 18 percent for commercial farmers and calving
rates are 50 percent compared to 65-70 in the commercial sector. Fish ponds in the small-holder
sector have an average yield of 0.3 ton/ha compared to commercial farms which have yields as
high as 10 tons/ha. Most of these differences are attributable to poor crop and animal husbandry
practices in the small-holder sector, providing an opportunity for large increases in productivity
from public development and dissemination of improved technologies and improved management
(World Bank, 1991).
13.   In addition to the feasibility of achieving these growth rates, there is strong empirical
support from other countries that the levels of return to public investments in agricultural
research, extension and animal production and health are high. In most ex-post evaluations of
research compieted to date, covering a wide range of crops and countries, rates of return to
research have been shown to exceed 10 percent, with a majority of them showing rates of return
in excess of 30 percent (Echeverria, 1990). Public investments in agricultural extension have
shown similar rates of return. Studies examining aggregate rates of return to research for Brazil,
India, Paraguay and USA have shown rates of return ranging from 14 percent to over 100 percent
(Feder, 1989).
Ex-post Analysis
14.    The purpose of the ex-post economic analysis of ASIP is to provide continuous monitoring
of its performance and improve allocation of resources in subsequent phases of the program. On
the basis of this analysis, sub-programs that are underperforming can be redesigned to ensure that



- 76 -                         ANNEX - 9
Page 5 of 7
they yield at least the minimum level of returns required. The performance of ASIP investments
will estimated using the following model.
Yt = f(Sjt, Xkt,Wlt,Pxt,Pyt,D)
where  Yt      =      Net Farm Income per household in period t
Sjt    =       public service from ASIP subprogram j in period t
Xkt    =       agricultural input k for rural household i in period t
Wit    =       control variables for exogenous factor I faced by rural
household such as weather, policy shifts, outbreaks of
disease, road density etc. in period t
Pxt    =       Price of Inputs X in period t
Pyt    =       Price of Output Y in period t
D      =       Dummy variables for gender, mode of cultivation, or
system of agriculture.
15.    For the variables used to represent public service flows to farmers from ASIP, Sjt service
indicators will be used for each sub-program of ASIP. For example, in the case of the extension
sub-program, the number of visits by an extension officer per farmer per year may serve as a
proxy. In the case of the research sub-program it may be the availability of new varieties and
in the case of livestock it may be the number of veterinary officers per district.
16.    Observations used to estimate this model will be based on a sample of 5000 households
collected on an annual basis by the Central Statistics Office. However, since the same households
will not be interviewed each year and there are unlikely to be large differences in ASIP services
within districts, the average within each district for each variable will be used as an observation
in estimating the coefficients of the model. Since there are 63 districts in Zambia and the
variables are calculated as first differences this would provide 63 observations in the second year
of the program and 63 observations in each year thereafter. In the early stages of the ASIP
program. there is likely to be a lag in supplying ASIP services to some districts providing
sufficient variation between districts to estimate the impact of these services. Using this approach
will provide the first rough estimate of the returns to ASIP services after the second year of the
program with improved reliability after the third year as the number of observations increase.
A list of the data items available for this analysis are presented in Annex 7.
17.    By financing and supporting monitoring and evaluation under the project, data required
for this analysis will be collected on a timely basis. This will allow preliminary estimates of the
program's economic performance after the second year followed by more thorough analysis in
subsequent years. It will also permit the estimation of the actual economic rate of return for the
project for the Implementation Completion Report, rather than relying on a recalculation of the
appraisal report rate of return.



-77 -                         ANNEX - 9
Page 6 of 7
Annex Table 9.1
Mininum Agricultural GDP Growth Required to Justify ASIP Subprogram Expenditure
Basic Program    Ten Percent       Program
Cost         Income in      Benefits Lagged
Baseline      by One Year
Program Costs
(Percent)
Overall Program                  0.84            0.93             0.94
Agricultural Extension           0.09            0.10             0.10
Agricultural Research            0.10            0.11             0.11
Animal Production & Health       0.14            0.16             0.16
Irrigation                       0.02            0.02             0.02
Farm Power                       0.01            0.01             0.01
Marketing and Trade              0.05            0.06             0.06
Standards                        0.01            0.01             0.01
New Product Development          0.03            0.03             0.03
Agricultural Training            0.03            0.03             0.03
Fisheries                        0.03            0.03             0.03
Policy & Planning                0.03            0.04             0.03
Food Reserve Agency              0.01            0.01             0.01
Agricultural Credit              0.24            0.26             0.29
Land Use                         0.07            0.08             0.08
Seed Multiplication              0.01            0.01             0.01
MAFF Headquarters                0.00            0.00             0.00



- 78 -                        ANNEX - 9
Page 7 of 7
Annex Table 9.2 Total Factor Productivity Levels for Selected Countries
Zimbabwe            South Africa        United Kingdom            India
(1980-1989)          (1981-191)            (1985-1990)          (1973-1983)
3.98                 2.88                  1.66                 1.07
Source Thurtle et al. (1993); World Bank (1990); Thurtle and Bottomley (1992)



- 79 -                          ANNEX - 10
Page 1 of 1
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Capacity Building
1.    Given the high level of commitment of the Government to implement the program within
the existing institutions, the requirement of Technical Assistance (TA) for ASIP is not expected
to be significant. However, since ASIP implementation entails a transition of program control
from several donor supported units to MAFF and the adoption of a coordinated sector approach,
initially at least, there will be the need to supplement MAFFs capacity for implementation with
outside expertise. The Government expects to make the full use of local expertise where possible
by seeking the assistance of local consultants and institutions, including universities. Special
technical skills which are not available in country may, however, be required for program
implementation from time to time. Therefore, a capacity Development Fund has been established
in MAFF to engage short-term Technical Assistance personnel during the ASIP implementation.
Since technical assistance services will be demand driven, it is not reliable to determine apriori
what the total cost of TA is likely to be.
2.     Assistance in the selection and use of TA under this Fund will be provided on
Goverrnment's request by the UNDP's Capacity Building Unit and also by the Bank's Resident
mission which is staffed with procurement personnel familiar with local conditions.
3.    Based on lessons of previous experience of using TA, the Government is aware that in
order to properly benefit from its use TA resources have to be well managed. The preparation
of Terms of Reference with clear objectives, counterpart training requirements and other
monitorable outputs to assess performance will be crucial. The relative roles of advisers and local
staff will also have to be well defined, and procedures to replace the former by the latter clearly
agreed. In the next page (Appendix 1) this Annex provides general guidelines for the preparation
of TORs for consultants, preparing basic tender documents to engage TA services and an outline
of progress reports to be prepared by consultants.
General Guidelines for the Preparation of Terms of Reference
4.    In general TOR drafters must be familiar with the working conditions/location (preferably
staff at the district level) in which the consulting contract would be carried out (i.e., institutional
set-up, target population, local capacity in the area of interest, prevailing transportation and
communication infrastructure, office technology available, cultural patterns, prior experiences,
and possible sources of additional information). It is advisable that management/staff at the field
level be assigned responsibility for preparing TORs and other documentation for the procurement
of consultants as the former identify possible technical and/or organizational gaps during
implementation of their sub-programs. Based on past experience, achieving the expected
institution building objectives depends to a large extent on the level of involvement of the target
group (the program's administration) in the identification and selection of their consultants.



ANNEX- 10
- X() -                             Appendix 1
Proposed Format
a)     Background: This heading should concisely describe the general background of
the proposed assignment (i.e. technical assistance in a specific area, road design, environmental
assessment, etc.) allowing the reader to understand WHY is the task undertaken. Although not
exclusive, some of the information that this section would include: (i) for whom is the assignment
intended; (ii) how does it fit within ASIP; (iii) location; (iv) issues to be resolved; and (v) source
of financing.
b)     Objectives: This heading should clearly define WHAT are the expected results
from the proposed assignment. For example, on a TA assignment the expected result could be
to improve local project implementation and monitoring capacity. In general terms, objectives
could be: (i) problem-solving (i.e., identifying current problems and means of solving them); (ii)
change-oriented (i.e., organizational changes required to improve overall project management);
(iii) innovative (i.e., simple new methods to adapt existing minimum or non-tillage technologies);
and (iv) strategic (i.e., policy actions required to improve public resource allocation).
c)     Scope of Work: This heading should describe HOW the proposed objectives may
be achieved. Usually this section provides a description of the tasks, their phasing, and proposed
methodology (the latter can be presented under a separate heading). Items to be considered in
this section could include: (i) historical records, secondary data, lessons from prior experience;
(ii) language requirements; (iii) level of detail required; (iv) projections; (v) units of measurement
to be used; (vi) level of computer-based analysis required; (vii) inputs required; (viii) sensitivity
analysis; (ix) possible transfer of skills to local counterpart (on-the-job training); (x) possible or
expected interviews (no. of persons); and (xi) location where the assignment would be carried out.
The use of bar charts to summarize assignment's phasing is recommended.
d)     Reporting: Under this heading the time schedule (for tasks described in the above
section), type and number of reports, and review/approval procedure are specified. For short-
term assignments (about 4 to 6 months) a mid-term progress report (see outline below) is usually
recommended prior to the final report. It is advisable to include in the TORs the number of
copies required, and language in which the report should be presented. Specific reference should
be made to the person/s (not names but title) to whom the reports should be sent.
e)     Expected Output: The TORs should clearly state the expected results. In this
section the client (GRZ) can specify its contractual obligations.
General Outline of Progress Report to be Prepared by Consultants
1.    Introduction
2.     Progress (in comparison to initial bar chart attached to contract)
3.     Findings and recommendations.
4.     Training provided during consultancy
5.     Conclusions



- 81 -
ANNEX - II
ZAMBIA                                  Page I of 2
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Environmental Mitigation Statement
I.    The Agriculture Sector Investment Program is a sector wide programn encompassing all
aspects of agricultural production in Zambia. The primary objective of the program is to enable
the Ministry of Agriculture Food and Fisheries to rationalize the use of both its own and donor
resources in the development of the agricultural sector. Through this rationalization the Ministry
will reduce expenditures on food and agricultural input subsidies, and increase its provision of
public services such as agricultural research, agricultural extension, animal health and land
administration. This refocusing of responsibilities by the Ministry will greatly enhance its ability
to promote and enforce environmentally sound agricultural practices.
2.     Land use. The program will fund the development and implementation of a National
Land Use Plan. The Plan will be designed to ensure the protection of environmentally sensitive
areas, giving particular attention to biodiversity protection and watershed management. While
implementation of the plan is not expected until the third or fourth year of the project, it is not
anticipated that there will be any major expansion of cropping onto new lands during the period
of the project since it is estimated that approximately 50 percent of existing crop land on
commercial farms is underutilized (World Bank, 1992). It is not anticipated that any new land
clearing for commercial agriculture will be required before 2000.
3.     Agricultural Practices.  Through the increased allocation of resources to agricultural
extension and agricultural research the Government will promote the following:
a)     Appropriate Use of Agricultural Chemicals (Pesticides and Herbicides). In
instances where it is necessary to use agricultural chemicals, the research and extension system
will develop recommendations that minimize ecological damage from the use of these chemicals,
and educate farmers to use safe application practices.
b)     Fertilizer Use. Farmers will be encouraged, through both price incentives
(removal of fertilizer subsidies) and extension messages to make more efficient use of chemical
fertilizers, thus reducing the pollution from this source. Organic fertilizers and the use of
composting will be promoted as an alternative and more sustainable source of soil nutrients.
c)      Soil Erosion.  While soil erosion hazards on Zambia are generally low, the
Ministry has an active program of erosion control through the construction of physical structures
and a pilot program to promote the use of Vetiver grass.
d)     Minimum- or No-Tillage Cultivation.  The Ministry will be developing a
program to develop and encourage minimum or no-tillage practices that are appropriate for
Zambia.
4.     Irrigation.  No new large scale irrigation schemes are planned under this project.
However, there are plans to rehabilitate existing smallholder schemes.  In the process of
rehabilitation, the Ministry will be expected to meet the Banks environmental standards, thus
upgrading many of the countries existing systems.



- 82 -
ANNEX - 11
Page 2 of 2
5.     Livestock and Wildlife Management. This program will tocus on improving animal
health and disease control. The animal production unit within the Department of Animal
Production and Health will be transferred to the Extension and Research Department which will
ensure greater coverage through a more disciplined approach to intformation dissemination.
Within the commercial farming sector there has been a rapid increase in the farming of indigenous
livestock, primarily antelope. In the long run, an increase in this type of farming together with
the integrated wildlife management programs in the Game Management Areas surrounding
national parks will greatly increase the biodiversity in the country.
6.     Fisheries. Under the proposed fisheries program there will be increased promotion of
small scale fish farming that is environmentally benign. There will also be an increase in the
monitoring of large fisheries such as the Lake Kariba, Lake Bangweulu, and the Kafue Flats to
ensure long run sustainability of these fisheries.
7.     Roads and Infrastructure. The program does not include any plans for the development
of new roads or any other major civil works. As a result there is no risk from this type of
activity.
References:
World Bank and Government of Zambia. 1992. Assessment of Potential Land for Expanding
Agricultural Production in Zambia. On File AF6AE.



- 83 -                         ANNEX - 12
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
The Agricultural Sector
A. Physical Characteristics of the Sector
1.    Zambia's agriculture is predominantly rain-fed and rainfall is one of the major determinants
of sector performance in any given year. Despite abundant, unused high potential soil and
abundant water resources, sectoral growth is sluggish and rural poverty pervasive. Zambian
farmers have not been able to take advantage of the available natural resources.
2.    Zambia has an estimated 9 million ha, or 12 percent of its total land area, suitable for
cultivation and 16 million ha suitable for rangeland grazing. However, only about 1.3 million
ha (or 14 percent of the available arable area) is presently cultivated. The irrigable potential is
conservatively estimated at 430,000 ha, of which no more than 50,000 ha is developed, mostly
on commercial farms for sugar, wheat and plantation crops. Most of the land is farmed by the
private sector, either by smallholders or commercial farmers. Land tenure security is quite good,
but land is not easily tradeable, sub-divided or sub-leased to small farmers. There are also long
delays in land titling and other matters of land administration, frustrating private investors. While
cultivable land is abundant in areas close to infrastructure, it is not sufficiently accessible to
smallholders. All land is vested in the President who has delegated the land administration
function to the Commissioner of Lands. About 4 million ha are classified as State Land and
administered by the Commissioner of Lands; 68 million ha (or 91 percent of the total land area)
are classified as Trust and Reserve Land, access to which is governed by customary law and
institutions.
3.    Zambia can be divided into three broad agro-ecological zones. Zone 1, which is mainly
located in southern areas of Southern and Western Provinces, has low agricultural potential, with
a sparse population of less than half a million, poorly distributed annual rainfall of about 600 mm,
and low fertility soils. Furthermore, widespread incidence of trypanosomiasis and other diseases
limits livestock production. Zone 2 covers the central belt of the country. It is the most populous
zone, with over 4 million inhabitants and has the highest agricultural potential. It has a well
distributed annual rainfall of between 800 to 1000 mm, and generally good soils. Zone 3 covers
large areas of Northern, Luapula and North-Western Provinces and has a population of over 3.5
million. Although this zone has annual rainfall in excess of 1000 mm, problems of soil acidity
and low fertility, combined with low solar radiation levels due to cloud cover, limit yields. In
addition, .his zonle is not suitable for cattle rearing.
4.    'T he approximately 700,000 farmers in Zambia can be grouped into three main categories.
About 75 percenti are smallholders with an average farm size of 2 ha who typically cultivate with
hand tools for subsistence. An estimated 17 percent are "emerging" commercial farmers with
farms betwveen 10-2() ha in size, who employ animal draft power and hired labor for cultivation,
use farm inputs (improved seeds and fertilizer), and produce significant marketable surpluses.
The balance of 8 percent are larger commercial farmers with farm sizes exceeding 60 ha and
account for about 60 percent of the marketed output. The commercial farmers are mainly located
along the Line-of-Rail or near major urban centers and produce a range of livestock and crop
products mainly lor the domestic market. In nrral areas 65 percent of the population are women



- 84 -
ANNEX - 12
Page 2 of 3
and a large proportion of them are heads of households. Surveys show that women invest more
time in agriculture than men. In the smallholder sub-sector, women play a major role in both
farm management and in the provision of labor.
5.    Maize dominates Zambian agriculture, accounting for about 76 percent of the cropped area.
This concentration on a single crop is a result of years of input subsidies, directed agricultural
services and guaranteed prices, as well as large consumer subsidies that have inflated demand for
maize products. Until recently, improved seed for maize was readily available at subsidized
prices and the entire marketing chain for maize was publicly supported through a network of
parastatals. Cotton and groundnuts each account for 8 percent of the cultivated area. Soya bean
and sunflower are emerging as new field crops, with tobacco and wheat important in the
commercial sector. The national livestock herd comprises 2.6 million head of cattle; 0.5 million
head of sheep and goats; 0.3 million pigs and 4.3 million poultry. Eighty percent of cattle and
over 90 percent of sheep, goats and pigs are in the smallholder sector, whereas over 50 percent
of poultry are managed commercially. There are marked differences in the management and
productivity levels between the commercial and traditional sectors. Calving percentages in
traditional herds average 50 percent, compared to 70 percent in commercial herds, and offtake
rates are 3 percent compared to 18 percent. Development of the livestock industry is strongly
constrained by the widespread incidence of several major diseases, including Trypanosomiasis and
East Coast Fever.
B. Current Institutional Framework
6.    The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) is organized on hierarchical lines
with most budgetary, financial, and many regulatory and administrative functions centralized at
MAFF headquarters. Responsibility for the management of technical services tends to be
decentralized to provincial, district and research station levels, but without corresponding
delegation of administrative and financial powers. This leads to inefficiencies and a general lack
of accountability for performance at provincial and district levels. A detailed MAFF organization
chart is attached in Annex 3. The Minister of Agriculture is assisted by two deputy ministers,
one for Agriculture and the other for Food Security, and by a civil service headed by the
Permanent Secretary. The Permanent Secretary of MAFF is assisted by a deputy permanent
secretary and six departments: policy and planning; fisheries; agriculture; veterinary services;
seed control and certification; and a national agricultural information service. The MAFF also
administers a number of parastatals including Lima Bank, Zamseed, Natco, Lintco, and the Dairy
Produce Board. The MAFF offers agricultural services, mainly to smallholders, through nine
provincial and sixty two district offices. The most extensive and heavily staffed departments
include those for Agricultural Extension and Research and Veterinary Services. Other sections
of MAFF, such as the Irrigation and Mechanization and Farm Power units, are small and act
mainly as technical support units to field extension operations. As policies to privatize the
parastatal companies are implemented, MAFF should progressively reduce the number of
technical support units to minimize redundancy.
7.    Apart from the services of MAFF, several other ministries of the Government and
parastatal organizations are significantly involved in the agricultural sector. The Zambia Bureau
of Standards (ZABS), a statutory body under the Ministry of Commerce, Trade and Industry, is
responsible for national standards including those for agriculture. As Zambia's current policy is
to promote exports and access to information on required standards in other countries, the work
of ZBS will become increasingly important. The Ministry of Lands (MOL) controls land affairs,



- 85 -
- 85 -                ~~ANNEX - 12
Page 3 of 3
including the allocation, survey and registration of leasehold titles to State, Trust and Reserve
lands in both rural and urban areas. Historically, management of land affairs has been highly
centralized and inefficient, and past attempts to decentralize have been frustrated by lack of funds
and qualified staff. A large cooperative infrastructure which is heavily influenced, and often de
facto controlled by the Government, is comprised of about 2000 primary cooperative societies at
the grassroots level, district and provincial unions at the secondary level, and the Zambian
Cooperative Federation (ZCF) at the national level. This cooperative structure has historically
been involved in a wide range of support activities, from input and credit supply through
marketing and storage, with limited success.
8.    In some sub-sectors, where government controls have been limited, the private sector has
demonstrated some dynamism, for example in the areas of horticulture, legumes, coffee, and
poultry. Exchange rate reforms and market liberalization policies under the structural adjustment
program have greatly facilitated these private sector activities. The commercial farming sector,
represented by the Zambian National Farmers Union and several affiliated producer associations,
is developing new markets, especially exports. These producer associations are also developing
new cooperative ventures that are producer controlled, especially in the supply of fertilizers,
chemicals and farm machinery. There is also increased private sector activity in seed production
and supply. These initiatives are the beginning of a process that has been delayed by pervasive
government intervention which created uncertainty in markets, but it is now being rapidly
dismantled by the adjustment program.






22-                             24-        Z A M B I A          20                               Ta                                                                 5D                     IBaL-~  ~/\ \j<-   lIRD 26328
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM                                                                 'K-pb                                T A  N  Z  A  N  I A
NAT ONAL PARKS                                                        I
*   RMAfL StAtKS                                   SAIN ROADS
o   RESEARCHOSTATAS PAA_
O    tEOCOGYAYSSATS*fES                        +   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
CGODESN VAdlfY AGRICUTURE RESEARCH Tt          4-  ARFIELDS
21V2tS :; t_/ ~~ ........................ MPOROKOS\j -..........<i'N 4\V~
N                                                             *   NATIONAL CAPITAL                               K    AMF  A                   tI Io  A
K' **O  PROVINCE CAPITPAS                                                                                                                                   A
- -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
9                                        - -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL eOu-DARIES                L U W f-  G1 U)  RIS  }'                     > 
A  N                                 MWkAA O  L  A   ^ {   f 5 j            -                                                                      W2  N
$   f   Ej   X   t   MUTANDA L/     r         C ;        W      TUTIWS2           !           t d    /                 X    , SKN D A *<   r~~~~~~~~~~~~ H IN 5 
CE      !     TRAL                       K  ~RTWSAL          ER1.1.  o C H A M
Zr  A                                   EA,bA ZJ 9H I    /   0                         RNr    N D  O, A  R4|    \ 31 y                                   C H       A T ARJ
1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Ao . N    /0   L A/>    -   ils/\MEE
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ K                                                                                                                                   L A    S004    
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TX H                                                  1_I 'A                                                          LUC  7tALA' 4W^)
\. ~      ~ ~ ~~~ I  S E S                                                                                                       N  j  I< D ' ^                     E   :) IZM)_g 
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_._  A       N1 A I      I                                                    N I) A          R                                                                   A=  T 'A0 _~   ~  '   ~  '    ~   ~      .  ,P
f~~~~~~~~~~b 22KA)TSWA                                                                                                                               L rr ;I-oTXE 9



