Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 26086
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2698-ZA)
June 23, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Name: Zambia kwacha Currency Unit:
1994           US$1.00=K669                         1998           USS1.00=K1862
1995           US$1.00=K864                         1999           US$1.00-K2388
1996           US$ 1.00 = K1207                     2000           USSI .00 = K3I1 10
1997           US$1.00=K1314                        2001           USSI.00=K3610
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AFDB            African Development Bank            JICA           Japan International Cooperation
ASIP            Agricultural Sector Investment                     Agency
Program                              M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
CF              Conservation Farming                MAC            Ministry of Agriculture and
CF             Conservation Farmiing                               Cooperatives
DAC            District Agricultural Conmittee      MAFF           Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
DACO           District Agriculture Officers                       Fisheries
DO                                                  NABARD
ES             Evaluation Summary                   NGOs           Nongovernental Organization
EU             European Union                       NORAD          Norwegian Agency for
FINNIDA        Finnish International                               Development
Development Agency                   OED            Operations Evaluation
FMU            Financial Management Unit                           Department
GART            Golden Valley Agricultural          PPAR           Project Performance Assessment
Research Trust                                      Report
GDP             Gross Domestic Product              PSR
GRZ            Government of the Republic of        QAG            Quality Assurance Group
Zambia                               R&D
GTZ            Deutsche Gesellschaft fur            RIF            Rural Investment Fund
Technische Zusammenarbeit            SIDA           Swedish International
GmbH                                                Development Agency
HQ             headquarters                         T&V             Training & Visit
ICR            Imnplementation Completion           UNDP           United Nations Development
Report                                              Agency
IDA            International Development            USAID          U.S. Agency for International
Association                                         Development
IFAD           Intemational Fund for                ZAREP           Zambia Agricultural Research
Agricultural Development                            and Extension Project
ISNAR          Intemational Service for National
Agricultural Research
ISNAR          Intemational Service for National
Agricultural Research
Fiscal Year
Government: January 1 to December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation               :  Mr. Gregory Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department            :  Mr. Nils Fostvedt (Acting)
Manager, Sector and Themnatic Evaluation              : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             Mr. Ridley Nelson



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes: first,
to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the expected
results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of lessons
drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of the Bank's lending operations. In
selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are
relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which Executive Directors or Bank management have
requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical
approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
(a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the information
provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the PPAR
is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent to the
borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed
in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies).
Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity
cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest,
Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Principal Ratings .........................v
Key Staff Responsible .........................v
Preface ......................... vii
Summary ......................... ix
1. Background .........................1
2. Findings .........................3
Lessons ........................4
Future Directions ..4.....................4
3. Analysis .........................6
Relevance ........................6
Efficacy ........................7
Efficiency .......................                                          10
Institutional Development .......................                           12
Bank Performance .......................                                    13
Borrower Performance .......................                                15
Sustainability .......................                                      16
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ........................                                 19
This report was prepared by Ridley Nelson, who assessed the project in February 2003. The
report was edited by William Hurlbut, and Helen Phillip provided administrative support.






v
Principal Ratings
ICR                       ES                       Audit
Outcome                          Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Institutional Development           Modest                    Modest                    Modest
Impact
Sustainability                       Likely                   Unlikely                 Unlikely
Borrower Performance              Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
Bank Performance                  Satisfactory          Highly Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfacory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible
operational division of the Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediate OED
product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Key Staff Responsible
Task Manager              Division Chief           Country Director
Appraisal                        N. Okidegbe              J. P. Chausse               K. Marshall
Midterm                         Tekola Dejene            Sushma Ganguly               K. Marshall
Completion                      Tekola Dejene              Karen Brooks                Yaw Ansu






vii
Preface
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Zambia
Agricultural Sector Investment Program (Cr. 2698 - ) for which a credit in the amount of
SDR 41.2 million (US$60 million equivalent) was approved on January 25, 1994. The
project closed on December 31, 2001, two years behind schedule. The final total
disbursed was US$53.6 million equivalent. There was cofinancing by GTZ, EU, AFDB,
IFAD, NORAD, FINNIDA, Dutch Aid, UNDP, JICA, SIDA, Belgium, and USAID. An
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) was submitted on June 30, 2002 (Report no.
24444).
The PPAR was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) based
on the Implementation Completion Report, the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development
Credit Agreement, and review of Bank files. The project was discussed with Bank staff,
beneficiaries, government staff at the central and district levels, donors, and NGOs. The
mission was in the field for ten days and undertook field visits to Central and Western
Provinces. No formal surveys were undertaken but farmers, extension staff, other District
staff, in particular District Agriculture Officers (DACOs) and NGOs were interviewed in
the field. Farmers were almost entirely interviewed on an individual basis, both women
and men. The mission was free to select and talk to any households it chose. The
cooperation and assistance of all stakeholders and government officials is gratefully
acknowledged, as is the support of the staff of the World Bank Country Office in Zambia.
The ICR is generally clear, informative, and well presented, although it leaves
room for further drawing of lessons. The main rationale for selecting this project for a
performance assessment was, first, to evaluate a project in Africa associated with a broad
program of deregulation with a view to better understanding the types of issues
encountered; second, to assess a sector investment program as a particular category of
lending embarked on in Africa in the mid-1990s; and, third, as a possible candidate for
taking further at a later date, data permitting, through a broader Impact Study. Following
standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for comments before
being finalized. No comments were received.






ix
Summary
The impacts of sector-wide programs remain an under-evaluated part of the World Bank's
portfolio. The attached Project Performance Assessment of the Zambia experience offers some
important lessons about the minimum requirements necessary to reduce the risks associated with
these programs, manage institutional reforms, and achieve the desired outcomes.
A credit of SDR 41.2 million (US$60 million equivalent) was approved for the Zambia
Agricultural Sector Investment Program on March 30, 1995 The project closed on December 31,
2001, two years behind schedule. The final total disbursed was US$53.6 million equivalent to
89% of the original amount. GTZ, EU, AFDB, IFAD, NORAD, FINNIDA, Dutch Aid, UNDP,
JICA, SIDA, Belgium, and USAID were originally to cofinance the project.
The main original objectives of the project, as reflected in the government's agricultural
development objectives, were: to improve household food security; to promote better use of
natural resources; to generate employment and raise incomes; and to increase export earnings. It
was to cover the country's entire agricultural sector. It was to be implemented within the
institutional framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF). Donors
procedures for procurement, reporting, accounting, and auditing were to be harmonized as far as
possible. The design was to allow for annual reviews and adjustments. The project was
embedded in the ongoing public sector reforms in the sector aimed at increasing decentralization.
It was to be the first in a series of four-year programs.
There were four original main components in which many donors were involved: (i)
policy and institutional improvements in marketing, trade and pricing, food security, and land use
and land tenure and institutional restructuring and strengthening to improve services; (ii) public
investments in agriculture research, agricultural extension, livestock production and livestock
health, fisheries development, rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation, agricultural training, and
support for farm power and mechanization; (iii) private sector development to create an enabling
environment for the private sector including financial services for productive agricultural
activities, seed multiplication and distribution, seeds and planting material for smallholders, and
new public development; (iv) pilot investment schemes, including a Rural Investment Fund for
small-scale capital investments in rural communities and privatization of government farms, and
support for the introduction of new technologies.
The large number of cofinanciers did not feel much ownership of the program. To
varying degrees they pulled out, or distanced themselves, over the first two to three years
although, in most cases, continuing to fund components separately. OED rates outcome
unsatisfactory, sustainability unlikely and institutional development modest, Bank performance is
rated as unsatisfactory as is Borrower performance.
The project is rated against its original objectives, which were not achieved. The original
project design failed to deliver and it is on this that the project is rated. The restructuring and
decentralization of the central ministry took much longer than anticipated. Many donors became
disillusioned particularly since a number had argued for completing the restructuring before the
ASIP. The concept of the ASIP as an umbrella to unify 180 separate donor-funded projects, was not
sufficiently owned by the donors and was something of a mirage in the absence of a common donor



x
funding pot, which had never been a realistic possibility. The Bank belatedly, after three years, at
the midterm review, narrowed the concept to support a limited number of specific investments.
Even the restructured (scaled-down) project does not appear to have achieved most of the
revised objectives. With respect to restructuring the ministry, this had some initial benefits
through decentralization but modest impact on the efficiency of the HQ. With respect to research,
ASIP funds were used for a number of specific research programs of some value and for setting
up the Golden Valley Agricultural Research Trust (GART), but most of this does not seem to
have increased the flow or quality of technology much. The number of released new varieties
appears to have been declining. Extension did shift direction from the top-down training & visit
(T&V) system to a more promising participatory group-based approach, but, with operating fund
problems, it is questionable in practice how much real impact this has had.
With respect to sector reforms, where there is largely limited and indirect attribution to
the project or to the associated program dialogue, implementation performance has been mixed
and unstable. Fertilizer subsidies were removed but have been revived. A proposed new Crop
Marketing Authority will aim to attempt to stabilize prices through the purchase and sale of
coarse grains without impacting on private sector marketing.
The lessons: First, the minimum requirements to reduce risk in sector-wide programs to an
acceptable level are: realism of expectations; a strong lead agency with, at most, modest reform
needs; clear characterization of the donor harmonization sought; a sector where the timing is right;
and a depth and breadth of government ownership sufficient for the scale of the task. Second,
projecting the detailed steps and phasing for policy and institutional reform, including probabilities
of delay, is at least as important and feasible as it is for traditional investment projects. Third,
defining what is a realistic outcome within an immediate project time frame is at least as important
as what is a desirable outcome for the long-term. This project had process objectives (called
"principles" in some of the documents), and it had longer-term goals, but it lacked shorter-term
monitorable substantive performance indicators and did not correct for this at the Mid-term Review.
Fourth, Project Supervision Reports need to reflect updated progress towards achievement of
objectives and to signal to management what actions are needed. Fifth, in preparing for policy
reforms the impact of each reform on the productive capacity and incomes of the poor in different
locations should be projected.
Gregory K. Ingram
Director-General
Operations Evaluation



1.    Background
1.1   Zambia's economic performance at the time of independence was quite strong but
deteriorated from the mid-1970s, partly due to the decline in copper prices in 1974. The first
Structural Adjustment Programs were initiated in the 1980s, but implementation was
piecemeal and failed to address the issue of poverty. The mid-1 980s saw a rapid economic
decline. While some gains arising from the reform program were made in the 1990s,
performance in the rural sector was much weaker in the second half of the decade than in the
first half. Macroeconomic problems, in particular extremely high inflation, negatively
impacted on growth and there were input supply and marketing problems for the poor and for
those away from the line of rail.
1.2   Zambia has abundant land and water resources in relation to its population with
population densities ranging from 1 to 11 per square kilometer. About 95 percent of the
cultivated land area is under small-scale farms. There are about 200 large-scale farms
occupying the remainder. GDP from the agricultural sector grew at over 4 percent per annum
during the 1990s, a strong performance given governents elimination of agricultural
subsidies and liberalization of commodity markets, but the rate of growth slowed substantially
during the second half of the decade - the period when the project was underway. Zambia was
hit by drought in 1992 and 1994, resulting in a slump in coarse grain production and there was
a further drought experienced in 2001. The incidence of poverty in Zambia in the rural areas at
about 75 percent is very high, even compared to other sub-Saharan Africa countries,
particularly for a land surplus country. Inequality is also high.
1.3   The agricultural sector reformns have resulted in considerable hardship for the poor,
particularly those away from the line of rail or in the more arid zones, because the private
sector was not ready to handle inputs, particularly in remote areas, nor to purchase large
quantities of maize. Over the same period, livestock, important in many areas for draught
power, were severely affected by disease.
1.4   Objectives. The original objectives of the project were stated at two levels: At the
level of process objectives (predominantly focused on the means) the objectives were:
*  to embrace all public investment for the sector in a pool of funding;
*  to implement within the existing framework of public agencies which would be
decentralized;
*  to utilize no Project Implementation Units and use minimal long-term
intemational Technical Assistance;
*  to standardize procedures for funding agencies;
*  to use a flexible design with annual reviews and adjustments;
* to promote private and beneficiary participation.



2
1.5   At the level of medium to long-term goals (i.e. focused on ends) the objectives were:
* to improve household food security;
* to promote better use of natural resources;
* to generate incomes and employment;
* to increase export earnings.
1.6   As is evident from the above, the project lacked well formulated substantive objectives
against which to evaluate the project. The means were seen as largely justifying the ends and
the means were essentially the entire focus of this first (Bank-wide) ASIP. The objective
appears to have been, in effect, to see if one could implement the means within the context of
the project.
1.7   The revised objectives at mid-term (predominantly focused on means) were:
* to develop and disseminate improved technologies;
* to improve the institutional structure for cost effective service delivery
including decentralization;
* to assist institutional development including training, policy formulation and
monitoring and evaluation;
* to adopt participatory approaches;
* to privatize agricultural enterprises and promote agribusiness and farner
organizations;
* to increase farm incomes and export earnings (the latter being an objective of a
different order to the others - a more substantive objective, but still not
sufficiently focussed to delineate shorter-term monitorable indicators).
1.8   The ASIP was a grand plan, introduced with considerable fanfare both by governments
and politicians. It was to cover practically every investment area in the sector and be
implemented within the institutional framework of the (then titled) Ministry of Agriculture,
Food and Fisheries (MAFF), later to become the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives
(MAC). Donors procedures for procurement, reporting, accounting, and auditing were to be
harmonized as far as possible. The design was to allow for annual reviews and adjustments.
The project was embedded in the ongoing public sector reforms in the sector partly aimed at
increasing decentralization. It was to be the first in a series of four-year programs.
1.9   Components. The Bank intended to be lender of last resort within the array of donor
support which implied flexible funding. However, there were four anticipated original
investment components: (i) policy and institutional improvements in marketing, trade and



3
pricing, food security, land use, land tenure, institutional restructuring, and strengthening
services; (ii) public investments in agriculture research, extension, livestock production,
livestock health, fisheries development, rehabilitation of small irrigation, agricultural training,
and support for farm power and mechanization; (iii) private sector development to create an
enabling environment including financial services, seed multiplication and distribution, seeds
and planting material, and new public development; (iv) pilot investment schemes, including a
Rural Investment Fund for small-scale capital investments in rural communities and
privatization of govermnent farms, and support for the introduction of new technologies. At
Mid-term, and with many donors continuing elements of the above components on their own,
these components were narrowed and adjusted towards more focus on the Bank investments
with main investments on research, extension, continued ministry restructuring, the Rural
Investment Fund and seed improvement.
2.    Findings
2.1   Briefly, the original project design failed to deliver. An ex-President of Zambia is said
to have remarked ruefully, "the ASIP came with such noise and fanfare but it went away so
quietly". The restructuring and decentralization of the central ministry took much longer than
anticipated. Many donors became disillusioned, particularly  The project was
since a number had argued for completing the restructuring prior  conceptually too
to the ASIP. They also had more immediate concerns about  ambitious, with
insufficient progress on financial management. Moreover, it  insufficient donor
became apparent that the grand concept of the ASIP as an  ownership, and most
umbrella to unify the previous 180 separate donor-funded  donors went their own
projects, while promising as an idea, had not been adequately  way early on. The
defined, nor owned by the donors. It was unclear what   belatedly revised
procedures, investments, reforms, and institutional changes  project had only modest
would now be different. The concept was something of a mirage  achievements.
in the absence of a common donor funding pot which had never
been a realistic possibility. Seeing the failure of the original project, the Bank (belatedly, after
three years) at the midterm review, narrowed the concept to support a limited number of
specific investments.
2.2   However, even the restructured project does not appear to have achieved most of the
objectives. With respect to restructuring the ministry, this had some initial benefits through
decentralization, placing more qualified staff at the district level, but it appears to have had
modest impact on the efficiency of the HQ. With respect to research, ASIP funds were used
for a number of specific research programs of some value and for setting up the Golden Valley
Agricultural Research Trust (GART), but in aggregate most of this does not seem to have
increased the flow or quality of technology much, if at all, and it achieved little in the way of
sorely needed fundamental reform or broader improvements in public research efficiency and
sustainability. The number of released new varieties appears to have been declining.
Extension did shift direction from the top down Training & Visit (T&V) system to a more
promising participatory group-based approach, but, with operating fund problems, it is
questionable in practice how much real impact this has had.



4
2.3   With respect to reforms, which cannot be assigned so readily to the before or after
mid-term review periods, nor attributed so easily to the project, and which, in any case have
arisen from a sustained dialogue, implementation performance has been mixed and unstable.
For example, fertilizer subsidies were removed, releasing budgetary resources for more
efficient sector investments, but a 50 percent subsidy has recently been reinstated and with a
50 percent loan element which, based on past credit experience, this seems likely to drift
towards a 100% subsidy through low collection rates. Meanwhile, a proposed new Crop
Marketing Authority will aim to attempt to stabilize prices through the purchase and sale of
coarse grains without impacting on private sector marketing, but there are concerns that, as in
the past, political pressures will quickly distort the operation of such a difficult balancing act.
LESSONS
1. The minimum requirements to reduce risk in Sector-wide programs to an acceptable level
are: realism of expectations; a strong lead agency with, at most, modest reform needs;
clear characterization of the donor harmonization sought; a sector where the timing is
right with respect to the complexity of the reform challenge; and a depth and breadth of
government ownership sufficient for the scale of the task.
2. Projecting the detailed steps and phasing for policy and institutional reform, including
probabilities of delay, is at least as important and feasible as it is for traditional
investments.
3. Defining what is a realistic outcome within an immediate project time frame is at least as
important as what is a desirable outcome for the long-term. This project had process
objectives (called "principles" in some of the documents) and it had longer-term goals but
it lacked shorter-term monitorable substantive performance indicators and did not correct
for this even at the Mid-term Review.
4. Project Supervision Reports need to reflect updated progress towards achievement of
objectives and to signal to management what actions are needed. (In this case early PSRs
were especially weak.)
5. In preparing for policy reforms the impact of each reform on the productive capacity and
incomes of the poor in different locations should be projected. (In this case the negative
input supply and marketing reforms impacts on different groups were largely predictable
and mitigation measures, even if partial, could have been considered earlier.)
FUTURE DIRECTIONS
2.4   For both the Bank and the borrower a number of issues warrant attention in the sector
for the future:
2.5   Recent donor and GRZ proposals read largely as "more of the same". While there are
ongoing thrusts where persistence is warranted, there is an opportunity to rethink and
determine the four or five major opportunities in the rural sector (technology generation,



5
credit, marketing capacity, groundwater resources, and livestock disease?), to assess the
constraints in the enabling environment to pursue these, to clearly define the minimum public
good needs in each, and then for donors and GRZ to build the program on the basis of
comparative advantage of each player.
2.6     The level of public investment in both the sector as a whole and in agricultural
research as a share of GDP is lower than most countries in Africa in spite of far more unused
land resources than most. This resource imbalance needs to be redressed.
2.7     In a land surplus country, and given the evidence from studies of growth potential
from expanding cultivated area, the lack of medium and long-term credit is a major
constraint'. The most promising entry point would probably be careful evaluation of the few
on-going local programs such as the IFAD/Africare program, followed by rapid scaling up.
However, progress also depends on achieving stabilization and reduced inflation2.
2.8     As found in the recent ISNAR study, the capacity of the research system is declining3.
The proposal to shift the research system to a semi-autonomous institute should be pursued,
but circumspectly. A new system would need to be small and focused. It would be particularly
important to define the expected products and the areas of clear public good responsibility and
to match the scale of operation with a realistic projection of
future resources available.
driven donors away
2.9     Input availability and market access remain the major          from support for
problem for small farmers. Studies suggest price of fertilizer is      services. This is
less an issue than availability. The focus should be on relieving      unfortunate since these
the constraints to private sector participation, especially in the     are a necessary part of
less accessible areas, rather than substituting with public            efficient sectoral
services which have high opportunity costs and crowd out               support, particularly
private investment.                                                     research.
2.10    One impact of the failure of ASIP has been the rush of donors away from support for
public good services to now focus on local level projects where they feel they have more
control over prioritization, project design and fund utilization. There is now, arguably,
excessive risk aversion with a retreat from such central areas as the line agency HQ, M&E
capacity building, financial management, research, marketing, rural finance, etc. While the
motive for this is understandable, overall sectoral efficiency will be compromised if central
I. In the development literature there is increasing consensus that credit constraints are responsible for much of the weak
responses to liberalization by poor farmers.
2. The India Kisan Credit Card Scheme run by NABARD through Cooperative Banks is worth looking at. Farmers qualify
based on landholding, need, production pattem, production costs changes etc. for a certain maximum level of credit. The card
allows any number of withdrawals and repayments provided they do not at any time exceed the agreed ceiling. Repayments
must be within one year of withdrawals. This flexible system is more responsive to farmer's needs than individual loan
approvals and reduces the approval burden on banks.
3. It is indicative that the most significant small farm technology of recent years, the new Conservation Farming (CF) basin
(pothole) technology and its variants, did not emanate from the public research system but largely through the initiative of an
individual and an NGO. Since this involved bringing a technology from another country the public research system would
probably never have achieved it simply because of travel budget limitations.



6
support services are allowed to wither. Optimizing comparative advantage of different donors
is important.
2.11     Experience with minimum        tillage and conservation tillage research elsewhere in the
world suggests that there probably still remains much to be learned about the Conservation
Farming and Minimum Tillage technologies. This warrants increased attention from public
research 4.
2.12     Animal disease is costing Zambia huge losses yet farmers are well aware that dipping
could reduce losses considerably5. The availability of dip chemicals, cost of chemicals,
extension support, and support for community groups in dip technical, social, and financial
management warrants attention6.
3.       Analysis
RELEVANCE
3.1      Relevance of the project is assessed as substantial. Both the original objectives and
the revised objectives were clearly consistent with both the Bank's and borrower's strategy,
both at the time and now. However, in this PPAR OED ratings given are against the original
objectives (implicitly therefore also against the original components and targets) not against
the revised objectives7. Whether the Bank's and borrower's strategy was well timed given the
emerging macroeconomic problems at that point is more debatable.
4. From very limnited field observation, and incomplete knowledge of research done to date, potential areas for investigation
might include: optimization of expenditure on labor and herbicide (in land surplus locations herbicides look quite
competitive but some farm modeling with labor data would help), financial analysis of optimal combinations of
practices/expenditure when cash is limited, slope/rainfall/soil specific shapes and distribution of basins, altemative tyne
shapes and sowing depths with the Magoye Ripper, alternative periodic deep ripping practices, possibilities for mechanizing
basin digging, alternative herbicides and application rates and timing and low labor cost application techniques, work on
resistant weeds, further work on plant population with different crops, work on alternative intercrop mixtures and agro-
forestry systems, use of inoculation in legumes and interactions with alternative practices and conventional tillage, adaptive
knowledge drawn from ways similar practices have been carried out and adapted in other countries (e.g. the Burkina Faso
zais), combining CF with contour vegetative soil and moisture conservation techniques with vetiver grass etc. (possible
source for organic material?), optimal treatment of basins subsequent to planting (there appear to be a range of practices and
timing related to "hilling up"), and even historical research on similar practices by earlier generations in Zambia (there is
some indication that basins may have been used in the past).
5. One NGO representative commented that, " livestock has died in Zambia".
6. Only a sample of one, but the mission visited one unused dip where, in the past, contributions for chemicals were equal for
all group members regardless of number of livestock owned or dipped. Since there was a wide range of herd size it was not
surprising that contributions were not forthcoming from enough members to repurchase chemicals. (Relative to many other
countries, Zambia has less tradition of community cooperation and less experience with community group decision-making
and bookkeeping and therefore may need more assistance in these areas.)
7. This follows the Implementation Completion Report Guidelines (para 23), " if the project was restructured because of
faulty project design or poor implementation so that its objective(s) could not be achieved, i.e. if it had been or should have
been rated a DO problem project.... the assessment of outcome should be related to the original objective(s) to properly
reflect both the accountability and learning functions of ICRs."



7
EFFICACY
3.2     Efficacy in Relation to the Original Objectives. Overall, efficacy-the extent to
which the project objectives were achieved taking into          The project did not achieve
account their relative importance-is rated negligible. As       most of its original
noted in the ICR, the food production index fell from 130       objectives. There was only
in 1995 to 128 in 2001; GDP from Agriculture, having            modest achievement in the
grown quite impressively from 1990 to 1995 prior to the         revised project with the
project, leveled off and barely grew at all from 1996 to        somewhat better
2000 (however rainfall is a very important factor in crop       performances being in the
production and subsidies declined substantially from            Rural Investment Fund and
1992); and productivity declined with maize yields falling.     seed multiplication
Helped by the huge depreciation of the kwacha, exports did increase significantly from US$55
million in 1995 to US$125 million in 2001, albeit still lagging the projected increase at
appraisal. Diversification did increase, mainly towards cotton, cassava, sweet potatoes, and
groundnuts. Some of the diversification represents a positive efficiency shift responding to
changed price ratios. Some, such as a portion of the shift into cassava, may be less positive -
more indicative of emerging soil fertility problems following a decline in fertilizer use.
3.3     With respect to policy reforms, the ASIP-associated, and earlier, deregulation8,
although probably beneficial for the longer-term, was too hasty, leaving insufficient time to
address mitigating measures for the poor9 '. Input use fell, maize production and maize area
fell. The core institutional reform was very slow and, in the views of most donor and NGO
observers, did not achieve significant efficiency gains.
3.4     Efficacy in Relation to the Revised Objectives. The mid-term restated objectives to
disseminate improved technologies, to improve institutional performance, to assist policy
formulation, to adopt participatory approaches, to privatize enterprises, and to increase farm
incomes and export earnings, were still only very partially met. It was argued at the time that
the broad sectoral objectives remained relevant. However, they were far too ambitious and
generic for a narrower single donor (i.e. the Bank) project with only two more years to run and
questionable follow-on phases.
8. It is difficult to assess what reforms to attribute to ASIP since reform has been an ongoing process of dialogue.
9. For example, as reported by one NGO, due to the hasty deregulation of marketing, many private traders bought maize with
promissory notes from many small farmers - who saw no alternative at the time - and simply disappeared, so families lost
what little surplus cash they had, setting them on a subsequent impoverishing downward spiral due to lack of cash for farm
inputs etc..
10. One lady farmer in Western Province probably summed up quite well how farming conditions have changed over the
years for many small farmers, saying, "Over the last 5 years (with the deregulation) things were at first very difficult,
marketing and getting inputs was very difficult, but it has become a little better in the last two years. But many years ago
farming was better than it is now." An extension officer also told a similar story.



8
3.5    MAC Restructuring. This was an objective in both the original and the revised
objectives. Most donors, NGOs and a number of District staff, see few  Most observers of
significant improvements in operational efficiency, in fact a number  MAC do not yet
consider MAC performance to be worse following ASIP. Some note    see significant
that one cannot expect a ministry to restructure itself because the  improved
incentives are perverse. The depth of ownership in the ministry at the  efficiency,
time is questionable. One observer said that the ownership was really  particularly at
only in the Policy and Planning Division which played the major role  HQ.
in project preparation." Indeed, some other Divisions fought actively
against the restructuring. The number of Departments was 9 before and is now increased to
11. Number of approved positions has stayed about the same but because of many vacancies
due to budget constraints staff numbers are down. Some managers in MAC feel that the
almost complete removal of staff at the Provincial level was excessive and, to some extent,
this has now been reversed. Morale is very low partly due to low salaries that have not kept up
with inflation. There have been some process achievements. While the proposed Project
Coordinating Committee never functioned properly, the Agricultural Consultative Forum,
which includes government, donors, NGOs, and the private sector, and was set up after the
mid-term, has been found by many participants to be a useful forum for ideas. However, over
the project period, it did not substitute for the role of the Coordinating Committee.
3.6    District Restructuring. Some modest initial skills improvements with a
deconcentration of staff to the districts have been quickly negated by lack of financial
sustainability. Typically, District budget estimates, when aggregated and passed through to the
Ministry of Finance, are cut by about two-thirds. Then, over the year, about one-half of that
actually reaches them. So they receive approximately 15 percent of what they believe they
need to operate. Flexibility of funds allocation at District level had somewhat improved early
in the project, but the freedom of District Agricultural Coordination Officers to redirect
funding was lost again to the center, due to separate donor projects and increasing budget
constraints. One budget casualty has been the District Agricultural Committee (DAC) which
was a promising innovation under ASIP and functioned reasonably well while resources were
available. It is now much less effective since there is no funding available and members are
often unable to travel to meetings. There were also criticisms by District staff that the new
arrangement for the Technical Services Branch, split into field-located teams, was not
working well because the teams tended to focus on the District where they reside due also to
lack of funding for transport.
3.7    Extension/Research/Seeds. Attributable impact data is very limited. There is no
project-surveyed impact data on production or enterprise or farm household incomes. Even if
there were, with the complications of many overlaid policy reforms and two droughts, such
data would be very difficult to attribute. Based on reported monitoring data from extension
staff, project input-level performance has been modest. Out of about 600,000 farm families,
I1. Indicative of the lack of ownership is that there were even payments (termed "allowances"), representing a significant
portion of their annual income, made for staff to participate in project preparation and attend the additional meetings required
to carry out this work. Although ministry salaries are indeed extremely low - indicative of a wider problem, the need for such
payments is hardly an indicator of ownership.



9
the number of farmers adopting one or more technologies rose quite modestly from 175,000 in
1998 to 200,000 in 200112 13. The number of field demonstrations grew substantially from
2,300 in 1998 to 10,500 in 2001 but has since fallen. The number of farmers adopting
conservation farming technologies fell towards the end of the project from 39,246 in 1998 to
20,000 in 2001 4. The number of film and radio broadcasts was 15 in 1996, rose to a peak of
66 in 1998 partly associated with project support and then fell to 16 in 1999. A general dearth
of extension leaflets was observed by the mission in the field, and the numbers of the few
leaflets printed seemed only sufficient for extension staff and not for farmers also. Staff
training sessions and workshops rose from 84 in 1996 to 518 in 1999 but appear to have fallen
since then although more recent data are not available. The number of farmer courses fell
from 96 in 1996 to 24 in 1999. Training is generally considered to have been better under the
previous project - Zambia Agricultural Research and Extension Project (ZAREP) than under
ASIP. ZAREP supported the T&V system which had built-in regular training every two
weeks. In research, the number of improved varieties released fell from 15 in 1998 to 6 in
2001 (with 3 each in 1999 and 2000), but of course released varieties would lag investment by
at least 5 years so attribution to ASIP is lagged. The quantity of improved seed multiplied
through the Soils and Crops Research Branch increased from 3,032 tons in 1998 to 18,262
tons in 2001, and, from the informal sector from 2,500 tons in 1998 to 3,700 tons in 2001, and
private seed companies approximately doubled their seed production over that period'5.
3.8     Participatory extension approaches were enhanced under ASIP but the impact at farm
level appears modest. In a limited number of interviews with farmers the mission found it
hard to elicit, even with prompting, clear acknowledgement that the extension approach per se
had changed significantly. It may be that farmers have benefited from, but not noticed, the
change but most farmers gave much more prominence to simply the number and type of new
technologies they had learned about and frequently mentioned their other priorities of input
12. There are doubts about the quality of this data since in another MAC/MAFF report the equivalent data shows 66,000
farmers for 1998 but with no data for 2001.
13. An adoption rate study by MAC dated November 2000 found that over 90% of farmers knew their local extension staff,
with 44% belonging to groups "known to be organized" by extension staff. Over 80% of farmers claim to have got their
information from MAC staff, with 11% from other farmers and 5% through NGOs. About 60% of maize varieties currently
being planted were obtained by farmers prior to the end of 1996 and about 40% from 1997 to 2000 , i.e. approximately over
the ASIP period - not a bad adoption rate, although the area of improved varieties is not known. In groundnuts, about 43% of
varieties were obtained from 1997 to 2000 but about 80% of farmers planted local seed. In beans the penetration of improved
varieties has been less impressive, most seeds are local varieties. Penetration of improved cassava varieties has been limited
with 100% of farmers planting at least some local and only about 26% planting improved varieties. About 40% acquired their
cassava material more than 10 years ago. Surprisingly as many as 42% of farmers claimed to keep some form of farm records.
About 40% of farmers have adopted the Conservation Farming basins on some land (again, this is inconsistent with the
earlier reported monitoring data).
14. There may be a data problem here, since the mission's observation was that this technology had been quite well received
and, particularly in dry seasons, was offering significant benefits.
15. On the face of it, there seems to be some anomaly between the rather modest increase in number of farmers adopting one
or more improved technologies e.g. a 25,000 farmer increment over four years (mostly cultivating not more than about 2
hectares), and the substantial increase in total improved seed multiplication (which excludes other additional seed/material
such as legumes and cassava cuttings) since adoption of improved seed is counted in the surveys as a new technology. The
figures might suggest that, even without other technologies, about 33,000 incremental tons of improved seed was spread over
not more than about 25,000 farmers i.e. more than a ton per farmer. However interpreting these data is complicated by the
fact that a lot of seed is used by commercial farmers and by the fact that adoption by the 25,000 can include more than one
technology, etc.



10
supply, marketing, and credit. The Conservation Farming (CF) technology has undoubtedly
had some positive impact on food security, especially in drought years when CF, if done
correctly, can make the difference between a crop and no crop. Even on a portion of the crop,
this is a valuable risk reduction strategy for the poor. Its yield impact in higher rainfall years
may be more modest but even then it should still improve input use efficiency. However, it is
of significance that the introduction of CF did not come via the public research system but
largely through the initiative of an individual with the Conservation Farmers Union.
3.9   Rural Investment Fund. The RIF gave perhaps the best outcome of ASIP
components but still with only moderately satisfactory impact due to utilization questions.
Completion of Rural Investment Fund projects was 211 in 1998, 445 in 1999, 776 in 2000,
245 in 2001, in each year achieving more than the project target. About 50% of RIF
investments by value were in social types of projects and about 50% in productive
investments - a higher share in production than many similar projects globally. However,
there are questions about utilization levels and net benefits, particularly of the productive
investments. This is discussed later under the heading of Efficiency.
3.10 Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and Evaluation were weak, particularly
Evaluation. Initially, with the sector-wide ASIP concept, the main indicators proposed in the
appraisal report were simply the aggregate rural sector indicators such as agriculture GDP,
food production index, etc. However, some physical monitoring of components was carried
out, particularly for RIF and extension, through the monitoring reporting system. Impact
studies rely largely on monitoring data and suffer from the usual problem of lack of timely
baseline data. Physical monitoring remained totally separate from financial management - as it
so often is - to the detriment of resource allocation decision making.
EFFICIENCY
3.11  Efficiency, against the original objectives, is rated negligible - since the original
objectives were mostly not met, notwithstanding significant expenditures. For the revised
project, efficiency from mid-term on is rated as modest, but variable by component. No
overall project Economic Rate of Return was calculated in the ICR and it is not attempted in
this PPAR due to lack of data.
3.12 Research ERRs. There are four ERR calculations available for selected individual
elements of research, but these do not cover only the ASIP investments and straddle the ASIP
period. Three of the four indicate relatively modest ERRs by the global research standards
which typically show very high ERRs.



11
3.13   Extension Efficiency. Extension efficiency is difficult to assess. There is insufficient
data for economic analysis. With the shift from high cost T&V to reduced staff numbers using
a participatory approach there have been some overall cost
reductions. However, relating these to benefit streams is        While the RIF
difficult. One DACO noted that, although the new approach        established about 1800
was lower cost than T&V in several respects, it requires         items of potentially
substantial resources in the initial stages when staff spend a lot  beneficial social and
of time interacting with communities. However, he was            productive
hopeful that this was largely a startup expenditure. As noted    infrastructure, economic
above, benefits so far appear modest.                            because of low
utilization, mainly due to
3.14   Rural Investment Fund Efficiency. While the               weak comamunity
performance of the Rural Investment Fund in terms of putting     organizations and
in place infrastructure investments has been generally           insufficient community
moderately satisfactory, overall efficiency is questionable. The  operating funds.
Rural Investment Fund Final Assessment dated May 3, 200216
prepared by GRZ finds that, "at present, based on the
percentage of the projects which are experiencing operational difficulties and the proportion
of total investments which they represent, RIF has not yet achieved a satisfactory rate of return
..." While there was limited case analysis in the study the conclusion is probably correct.
Many investments appear underutilized. The mission saw small dams which only water
livestock and have no irrigation development, cattle dips which are not used because the
group cannot fund the chemicals, and crop storage facilities which are not used because of
changes in the marketing arrangements or the inability of the group to either manage or
effectively rent out the facilities. Most poultry projects have had operational problems. There
are reported problems with maintenance of boreholes, although these generally have been
quite successful. The mission observed missed opportunities to maximize benefits of small
dams through placing wells below or near dams for human use and to extend the livestock
watering season 17 and little stocking with fish'8, although stocking with fish has proven to be
a challenging community management exercise in many cases.
3.15   Agricultural Production Efficiency. Overall sectoral resource use efficiency
probably improved following the reduction in fertilizer subsidies and the removal of maize
price support. However, this can only be partly associated with ASIP and ASIP preparation
since much of it was initiated earlier. In any case, as noted above, fertilizer subsidies are now
reappearing. There have probably been efficiency gains from the privatization of government
owned farms partly associated with ASIP but assessing this would call for a detailed study of
a sample of farms.
16. This is a difficult study to interpret because the summary findings appear to be somewhat at odds with the main text.
17. One particularly successful sub-project at Mubiana Dam is reported due partly to a strong group and strong leadership.
18. In Bangladesh, women's groups supported by Bank projects have been extremely active in the development of intensive
fish farming in small dams and ponds, in some cases making such high incomes as a group so as to transform a village
economy. It may well be that assigning women's groups to manage community fisheries in Zambia would result in improved
community cooperation.



12
3.16 MAC Efficiency. As indicated above, most donor and NGO observers do not see
significant efficiency gains from the reforms, although some acknowledge that the
deconcentration may have had some impact. Some saw the process of restructuring itself as
having been inefficient'9. One indicator of poor MAC efficiency is the fact that the largest
project component, the RIF component, was largely ineffective until it was adjusted to a semi-
autonomous status to somewhat separate it from MAC.
3.17   Seed Multiplication Efficiency. There is insufficient data to analyze this, but it seems
likely that there have been gains in efficiency in seed multiplication through the greater use of
farmer seed multiplication. It appears to have relatively low supervision costs at the field level
and generally good results. However, much of it is serviced by NGOs and, again, benefits over
the ASIP period can only be partly attributed to ASIP support.
3.18   The Question of Incrementality. When most investments in the sector are
purportedly inside the boundaries of a "project" it becomes difficult to identify incrementality
during a period when the government budget is changing. However, it appears that public
investment over the period of ASIP, and therefore incremental sectoral investment, declined in
real terms. The Bank/GRZ July 2000 Public Expenditure Review shows actual nominal
expenditure rising from about K20 billion in 1996 to between K30 and K35 billion from 1997
to 1999, falling back to about K20 billion in 2000. But with extremely high inflation over that
period, this represents a substantial decline in real terms. Alongside this, donor expenditure
rose from about K12 billion in 1996 to K38 billion in 1999. Given the importance of
agriculture in Zambia this overall decline in public investment was probably inefficient in
economic terms and certainly agriculture GDP stagnated over the same period, although partly
a function of drought. However, the reductions in subsidies have probably improved sectoral
allocative efficiency.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
3.19   Institutional development related to both the original and revised objectives was
modest at best. Gains in some areas have been negated by loses in others. Lack of
sustainability cannot be fully separated from institutional development since a degree of
sustainability is implicit in worthwhile institutional development. As noted, there were modest
initial gains from the deconcentration of staff to District level20. There was an appropriate
shift away from a top-down T&V approach to a participatory group approach but the impact at
farmer level does not seem to be more than modest. Most observers see few gains from the
restructuring at HQ, a process that is still going on - currently with some reversion underway
to the earlier structure. The strengthening of the Procurement Unit appears to have been
successful and appears to even have had impacts outside MAC in improving overall borrower
tendering procedures, an important achievement.
19. For example, one staff member noted that when jobs became open for application the hierarchy was highly unlikely to
change since, to apply for a position at the next level up, staff at the lower level had to get their applications signed by their
boss - the person they hoped to replace.
20. But this seems to have been gradually eroded to the extent that DACO's now ask what the point is of them preparing a
district budget since HQ are going to change it anyway and largely direct funding allocation from HQ.



13
3.20  The establishment of GART was a positive move for research and for the D part of
R&D but, for overall assessment, this is negated by the failure to more fundamentally address
the rest of the national research system. There was probably a deterioration over the ASIP
period and, again, no financial sustainability. In particular, the collapse of the promising
Farming Systems Research activity due to lack of funds has weakened research/extension
linkages which were, in any case, not strong. One DACO considered Research/Extension
liaison was weak with meetings at Mt Makulu largely presenting what researchers intended to
do rather than fostering a two-way relationship21.
3.21  The project achieved some gains in skills from training provided at both higher and
lower levels but due to extremely low salaries many skills have been lost by the public service
over the project period. In some cases these skills remain in Zambia. In some cases they do
not.
BANK PERFORMANCE
3.22  Bank performance was, on balance, unsatisfactory,
although the evolving macro-economic situation was      While some aims of the
unusually challenging for sectoral progress. What really  sector wide approach were
happened for this ambitious sectoral approach to break down  promising in theory, in
so fast? The following appear to have been the main problems:  practice the excessively
complex package, at that
*  during much of preparation, insufficiently precise  time, was unrealistic. Most
language was used, allowing donors to read into the  donors felt steamrollered
emerging approach whatever suited them.          by the Bank into a
harmonization that was
*  It was not clear what "being inside ASIP" and "being  insufficiently defined, and
outside ASIP" really meant. It seems to have meant  with weak financial and
different things to different donors. When it became  management capacity.
apparent that virtually no donor harmonization was
going to be possible, it appears that a project could be "inside ASIP" simply if it was
consistent with the quite broad sectoral objectives and had a worthwhile period still to
run. Yet, even without ASIP, consistency with sectoral objectives would have been
needed for a project to be acceptable.
* Insufficient attention was paid by the Bank to initially less than frank but quite
strongly felt concerns of donors. Towards the end stronger donor reservations were
expressed but by then the train had gathered too much speed hence donors felt
steamrollered.
*  The fault by no means lies only with the Bank. Some donors were less than frank and
later, having gone along with the program for better or worse, were perhaps too ready
to turn and run when difficulties surfaced, leaving the Bank to carry the tattered
21. As one comparator, the mission found research/extension liaison to be weaker in Zambia than recently observed on a
similar mission in Bangladesh.



14
remnants of the concept. The files suggest that most donors were quite well aware of
what they were getting into, often participating in missions. Whether the donor field
offices were accurately and consistently reflecting the views of their HQs is difficult
to assess after so long. But the Bank did, in fact, make efforts in this direction by
sending a staff member to visit donor headquarters in their capital cities.
* The Bank was not open about the extent to which the Bank itself was prepared to
harmonize procedures. Prior to appraisal an internal e-mail from a Bank Procurement
Specialist makes it very clear that harmonization was fine provided it was others who
did the harmonizing.
*  The Bank was committed to achieving Zambian ownership by getting preparation
done by Zambians. Initially, the Bank focused more on facilitating the process. The
Bank may have stood back too far too early on the substance. This resulted in still
weak preparation documents quite late in the process resulting in the buildup of
pressure towards the end. Also, the Bank perhaps mistook involvement in preparation,
for which (surprisingly) government staff were paid extra remuneration and were thus
unlikely to be reluctant about, for genuine ownership.
* The project was initiated in a highly problematic macroeconomic and institutional
environrnent and was therefore high risk with respect to timing.
* It is clear in retrospect, comparing the more successful Education SIP, that the more
complicated agricultural sector was a risky place to start a SIP and that, with MAC
needing substantial restructuring, this was a risky institution to start off with.
* Arguably, the Bank avoided the core issue in research. While the project initiated two
research trusts (the cotton one still with an uncertain future since the proposed cotton
levy has yet to be approved), it simply provided funds for "more of the same" to the
public research system which needed fundamental reform. Indeed, while GART is
certainly a useful institution for R&D and for private partnerships, it could be argued
that, to some extent, it represents a sleight of hand to bypass the core problem of
public sector research.
* The Bank seems not to have worked sufficiently with GRZ to manage beneficiary
expectations. Indeed, it may have fostered unrealistic expectations. But this was
exacerbated by politicians fueling expectations particularly in relation to rural credit.
This was not without basis since earlier in project preparation credit had been
expected to be a component.
3.23  Largely for the above reasons, Quality at Entry was unsatisfactory. The project was
rated as "at risk" in 1996, 1997, and 1998.
3.24  In supervision, Bank performance was weak over the first two and a half years. Project
Supervision Report forms in the early years gave inadequate information to management.
Partly as a result of this, and also because of lack of continuity in Task Managers, it took three



15
years to react to the emerging problems. Supervision improved subsequently with some sound
mid-term decisions and, in 2000 QAG rated supervision quality satisfactory. However, even at
the mid-term review there were weaknesses. The project was redesigned but not formally
restructured, although there was an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement related
mainly to shifts in disbursement categories. The problems encountered over the first two years
were sufficient for the Bank to contemplate cancellation. This level of concern is an indicator
that should have triggered a full restructuring with completely revised objectives and new
indicators tied to those objectives.
3.25   There were two procurement/disbursement issues during supervision. First, staff in the
Procurement Unit in MAC complained of delays with the procurement "no objections" from
the Bank which were said to be worse than most donors. They also complained that Terms of
Reference approved earlier by the Bank had been queried again later, presenting problems for
procurement management. Second, disbursement of operating funds appears to have been at
odds with the appraisal intent, although there is no evidence of funds misuse. In the appraisal
report, the amount of incremental operating costs to be funded by IDA was US$4.1 million. In
the event, by the time the project closed, disbursement for incremental operating costs had
reached a massive US$18.8 million. This difference is not accounted for by a minor mid-term
adjustment in the percentage to be disbursed for operating costs. What appears to have
happened is that, at some point, disbursement started to be made for non-incremental
operating costs. This would have substituted for the declining capacity of government to fund
the ministry. Since it is difficult to define what should have counted as incremental in the first
place, the mission has been unable to disentangle this further.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
3.26 Borrower performance was also rated unsatisfactory. While the Bank certainly
spearheaded the concept, a considerable share of the failure of implementation can be
attributed to the borrower, although not necessarily to MAC itself since the restructuring was
larger than the ministry alone. In particular, the delays with restructuring could have been
better handled and the length of time required better forecast both by the borrower and the
Bank. Many of the restructuring steps required were known and by no means unpredictable
notwithstanding a number of areas of uncertainty. Borrower ownership suffered after the
transfer of the Minister and PS who were the main champions. (Changes in government
following elections were a part of this shift.) As noted in the ICR, MAC's central units for
planning, marketing information, and monitoring and evaluation were weak and the modest
strengthening has not, so far, achieved much. Borrower performance in financial management
was particularly weak up to the time of the Mid Term Review22. While a number of important
policy decisions were made, there has been a general lack of consistency and reversals by
22. The July 2000 Public Expenditure in the Agriculture Sector Review, a joint review by MAC/MAFF and the World Bank,
found the following: "Generally, the expenditure management and controls were inadequate due to weaknesses in planning
and budgeting processes as well as financial management and monitoring. With heavy delays in accounting for the flow of
funds, almost all donors had pulled out of from the FMU (Financial Management Unit) mainly due to poor performance of
FMU. Moreover, there was no specifically responsible institution that records and accounts the donor funds flow into the
economy. Still there is no reliable record that provides aggregate annual donor's resource inflow."



16
government, for example on input supply and marketing, which are damaging to private sector
expectations and therefore sustained investments.
SUSTAINABILITY
3.27    Sustainability is rated unlikely, almost entirely on the grounds of concerns about
financial sustainability, contrasting with the ICR rating of likely. Sustainability cannot be
divorced from outcome since an original intent of the institutional reform was to put in place
sustainable sectoral management and support systems. In the appraisal report the Bank
presented somewhat confusing evidence suggesting that the overall ASIP would be financially
sustainable on the grounds that the total ASIP budget projected was less than a trend derived
from recent total sectoral budget allocations -- a fairly bold assumption given the
macroeconomic situation. In any case, it was not, in fact, the case that everything calling for
government contribution in the sector was inside the ASIP.
3.28    The financial sustainability reality now is sobering. In extension, staff do not get
allowances, have houses in disrepair, manage with bicycles needing repair, only receive
training when a donor project happens to come along, get little support with audiovisual aids,
and have little linkage with research due to lack of funds for Subject Matter Specialists to
travel and the collapse of the Farming Systems Research units. Extension staff salaries at the
camp level are well below the lowest global poverty level of US$1 per capita per day23. In
many cases, no due allowances have been paid for three years. In research, operating costs per
researcher have now fallen to about $20,000 when about $40,000 to $50,000 is a bare
minimum to adequately utilize researcher skills. Staff losses have been high and a recent
International Service for National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) report found low morale.
At the central ministry level, there are few vehicles, the best reside with the Rural Investment
Fund (RIF) who, significantly, are somewhat autonomously funded. Indeed, throughout the
sector, there is a correlation between the availability of funds and the degree of autonomy. For
example, GART, with substantial autonomy, has generally good transport and operating
funds, RIF, with some degree of autonomy, has reasonable transport and operating funds (and
somewhat higher contract based salaries), and MAC, with no autonomy, has very poor
transport and very low operating funds24.
23. Assuming a 5 person family and no other household income, salaries are about 40 US cents per capita (perhaps 50 cents if
housing is valued at somewhat more than the housing deduction).
24. Another particular financial sustainability concern is that, in the ministry restructuring, lack of funds seems to have resulted in
staff taking early retirement receiving agreed severance packages several years late at un-indexed prices after massive inflation
losses over the intervening period. It is believed that a survey would reveal widespread severe hardship given also the erosion in
the value of annual pensions. It is not clear that the ability to fund the retrenchments was adequately analyzed prior to the
restructuring. This fell largely outside MAC's control.



17
3.29    Sustainability of farmer groups operating RIF subprojects was found by the 2002 RIF
Assessment to be quite variable with generally satisfactory
performance in well-established groups with substantial social       Sustainability is unlikely.
capital and in social types of investment and less in low social     GRZ budget is a low % of
capital groups and in productive types of investment25. In          sector GDP - not enough
particular poultry, piggeries, and fish ponds faced problemS26       to keep project activities
Local contribution in RIF was supposed to be 20 percent. It is       going without donor
almost certainly nowhere near that level, probably well below 10     support. There is
percent. Considerable creativity has been used in valuing local      insufficient cost recovery
labor.                                                               or private investment to
substitute. Operating
3.30   Sustainability of the generally quite successful farmer-      costs for research
based seed multiplication program is also, on balance, unlikely      effective use of staff.
since it is largely sustained now by a donor project which will      Extension salaries are
come to an end soon. No sustainable system appears to be in          below global poverty
place. As for much of the agriculture sector interventions in       levels.
Zambia, the program relies too much on the uncertain windfalls
of the ebb and flow of unpredictable donor projects.
25. While the 2002 RIF Assessment is useful, the Executive Summary seems much more positive than the main text.
26. Characteristics for success included kinship or religious bonds, past experience of working together, strong leadership,
mentoring relationships (e.g. with an NGO or government official), and a strong common interest in the subprojects component.






19                                              Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
ZAMBIA AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT PROGRAM (CR.
2698)
Key Project Data (Amounts in US$ million)
Appralsal                 Actual or                Actual as percent of
Estimate                  current estimate         Appraisal estimate
Total project costs               350.0                    248.7                    71
Credit amount                    60.0                      53.6                      89
Project Dates
Original                          Actual
Initiatng memorandum              07/86                              07/86 (but prep. effectively started
92)
Board Approval                     1/25/94                           03/30/95
Effectiveness                      12/22/95                          12/22/95
Closing date                       12/31/99                          12/31/01
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Actual Weeks                         Actual US$000
Preappraisal                 589.1                                 931.0
Appraisal/Negotiations       151.6                                 558.7
Supervision*                 446.2                                 1768.8
CompIeton-                   NA                                    NA
Total                        1186.9                                3258.5



20                                             Annex A
Mission Data
Date         No. Of    Staff   Specialization  Performance rating2 Types of Problems3
(month/year) persons   days in represented    me
field                 Implementaton Sbtus Development objectives
Appraisal
Negotiation,   03/24/1994     14
07/24/1994     14        Financial analyst/team leader, sector
investment specialist, agricultural
economist, agriculturalist (2),
financial analyst, economist (5), land
use specialist, disbursement officer,
procurement officer, lead specialist,
planning and budgeting specialist.
11/8/1994      4        Sector investment specialist,
economist, planning and budgeting
specialist, operation specialist
Supervision
06/12/1995     7         Sector investment specialist,     S              S
planning and budgeting specialist
11/21/1995     3         Sector investment specialist,     S              S
planning and budgeting specialist,
financial analyst.
03/15/1996     6         Sector investment specialist/team  S             S
leader, natural resource management
specialist, financial analyst, planning
and budgeting specialist, operations
officer
06/28/1996               Sector investment specialist/team  S             U
leader, natural resource management
specialist, financial analyst,
agriculturalist, economist, operabon
officer.
02/24/1997     9         Agriculturalist, sector investment  S            U
specialist, natural resource
management specialist, operations
officer, training specialist, agricultural
economists, anthropoligist,
agricultural services specialist
08/15/1997     1         Agricultural economisVtask manager.  S           U
11/24/1997     9         Agricultural economist/task manager,
agriculturalists (2), agricultural
services specialist, financial analyst,
operabons analyst, disbursement and
procurement specialist, irrigation
engineer, private sector development
specialist.
03/28/1998     4         Agricultural economist/task manager,  S          U
agriculturalist, agricultural service
specialist, financial analyst.
07/04/1998     4         Agricultural economist/task manager,  S          U
agriculturalist, agricultural service
specialist, inigation specialist.
12/03/1998     7         Agricultural economist/task manager,



21                                             Annex A
Date          No. of   Staff   Specialization  Performance rating2 Types of Problems3
(month/year) persons   days in represented    m
fleld                 Implementation Status Development objectves
agriculturalist, financial analyst,
agricultural officer.
03/19/1999     3         Agriclutural economist/task manager,
agriculturalist, financial analyst,
agricultural officer.
07/29/1999     4         Agricultural economist/task manager,             S
financial analyst, agricultural officer,
agriculturalist.
12/17/1999     8        Agricultural economist/task manager,  S          S
agriculturalist, agricultural officer,
financial analyst, economist,
economist.
02/16/2000     4         Economist/team leader, economist,  S             S
(limited)              agricultural specialist.
06/15/2000     1         Economist/team leader, economist  S              S
09/19/2000     5         Economist/team leader, economist,  S             S
financial analyst, agriculturalists(2)
04/10/2001     2         Economist/team leader, economist,  S             S
agricultural specialist.
07/12/2001     2         Economist/team leader, economist,  S             S
agriculturalists.
ICR
03/04/2002     4         Agricultural service specialist/team
leader, research management
specialist, policy analyst, economist.



