CREDIT NUMBER 2698 ZA
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Sector Investment Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      7    , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2698 ZA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               7      , 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF
ZAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTEATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated March 16,
1995 describing a set of actions, objectives and policies designed to implement the
Borrower's rolling four-year agricultural sector investment program (hereinafter referred
to as "the Program") and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
(C)    the Borrower intends to contract from various other donors (hereinafter
referred to as the Cofinanciers) loans and grants in an aggregate amount equivalent to
$130,000,000 (hereinafter referred to as the Cofinancing) to assist in financing the
Program on the terms and conditions set forth in agreements (hereinafter referred to as
the Cofinancing Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Cofinanciers; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated Janti-ry 1, 1985, with the last sentence of
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿-2-
(a)    "MAFF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Fisheries;
(b)    "ASSC" means Agricultural Sector Steering Committee, an interministerial
committee established under the Chairmanship of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture,
Food and Fisheries to coordinate the implementation of the Program;
(c)    "FMU" means Financial Management Unit, a unit established within
MAFF to manage the financial aspects of the Program;
(d)    "PPD" means Policy and Planning Division, the department within MAFF
in charge, inter alia, of the implementation of Part D. 1 of the Project;
(e)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(f)    "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this
Agreement;
(g)    "Implementation Manual" means the manual adopted by the Borrower on
which sets out procedures for the implementation of the Program;
(h)    "Sub-projects" means the agricultural sub-projects to be financed in part
out of the proceeds of the Credit under Part D.1 of the Project;
(i)    "LIMA Bank Ltd." means the financial institution established by the
Borrower pursuant to Chapter 686 of the Laws of Zambia; and
(j)    "Selected Training Institutions" meanstheNatural Resources Development
College, the Zambia College of Agriculture at Monze, the Zambia College of Agriculture
at Mpika, and the Zambia Institute of Animal Health.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty-one million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 41,200,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions
of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2005, and ending October 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15, 2014 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the
Project, as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and of the Program and, to this end,
shall carry out the Project and the Program through MAFF with due diligence and


﻿-5-
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural and
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)    Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project and the Program in accordance with the Implementation Manual and
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and except as
provided in paragraph 5 of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association,
a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project and
the Program;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into acc6unt the Association's comments
thereon.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)    open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in Kwacha in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in an
amount equivalent to five billion Kwacha, to finance the Borrower's contribution to the
Program;


﻿-6-
(c)    deposit into the Project Account by January 15, April 15, July 15 and
October 15 in each year during Program Implementation, such amounts as shall be
required to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the initial deposit
referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d)    use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under
the Program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)    not later than September 1 in each year, submit to the Association for its
review and comments, a draft annual work program and supporting budget for its
agricultural sector for the succeeding calendar year;
(b)    not later than November 1 in each year: (i) review with the Association
the documents referred to in the preceding paragraph; (ii) identify implementation issues
and propose appropriate solutions; and (iii) update Project timetables and performance
indicators;
(c)    not later than December 31 in each year, furnish to the Association the
work program and budget referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, as such program and budget
shall have been revised to the satisfaction of the Association in the course of the review
referred to in paragraph (b) hereof and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
carry out the Project in the year in question on the basis of the said work program and
budget, as so revised; and
(d)    not undertake any new investments in its agricultural sector not specified
in the Program without prior consultation with the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30 in each year commencing
1996, furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a report by independent
consultants acceptable to the Association in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request including: (a) an evaluation of the impact of the Project and the Program; (b) the
outcome of beneficiary consultations and other external reviews of the previous year's
progress and the actions proposed and taken to correct any problems identified; (c) an
analysis of the performance of the agricultural sector; and (d) draft audit reports for the
institutions that have received support under the Project in the preceding year. The
Borrower shall incorporate the findings of such report into the progress reports to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to Section 9.06 (a) of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not
earlier than 30 months and not later than 36 months after the Effective Date, a mid-term
review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. This review shall cover, among
other things: (i) a review of the effectiveness of the implementation arrangements; (ii)
results in the field; and (iii) progress made having regard to the performance indicators
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(b)    The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the mid-term review
described in paragraph (a) above, provide to the Association a report describing the status
of the items listed in such paragraph and of Program implementation generally.
(c)    Based on such review, the Borrower shall promptly prepare an action
plan, acceptable to the Association, for the further implementation of the Program and
shall implement such action plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project and the Program of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project and the
Program or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and


﻿-8-
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of staterments of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine such records;
and
(iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional events are specified:
(a)    as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement,
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;


﻿-.9-
(b)    (i)    Subject to paragraph (ii) of this Section:
(A)    The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of
any loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Program shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
the agreement providing therefor, or
(B)    any such loan shall have become due and payable prior
to the agreed maturity thereof; and
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Program are available to the Borrower from other sources on
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 5.01
(b) (i) (B) of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has established the Project Account and deposited
therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01, The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Cable address:              Telex:
MINFIN                       42221
Lusaka
Telefax:
253494
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                      197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
By 4/                   W koa#m c
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                                 e~e,
ional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:                                      100% of foreign
expenditures and
(a)   under Part D.2              350,000        90% of local
of the Project                              expenditures
(b)   under Parts A             4,300,000
and B of the
Project
(2) Goods and                                         100% of foreign
agricultural                                     expenditures and
inputs:                                          90% of local
expenditures
(a)   under                     1,400,000
Part D.2
of the
Project
(b)   under                    12,000,000
Parts A, B
and C of
the Project


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalentl         to be Financed
(3) Grants for                        6,200,000         100%
Sub-projects
and consultants'
services under
Part D.1 of the
Project
(4) Consultants'                                        100%
services and
training:
(a)   under                       1,000,000
Part D.2
of the
Project
(b)   under                       9,600,000
Parts A,
B and C of
the Project
(5) Operating costs:                                    90% until the date
2 years after the
Effective Date,
thereafter 75%
(a)   under                        350,000
Part D.2 of
the Project
(b)   under                       2,300,000
Parts A,
B and C
of the
Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(6) Unallocated                       3,700,000
TOTAL                      41,200,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)    the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)    the term  "operating costs" means the costs related to Project
implementation of MAFF for staff travel, including subsistence, for the operation and
maintenance of office, training, laboratory equipment and vehicles, and acquisition of
office supplies.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments:
(a)    made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)    in respect of a grant for a Sub-project, unless the grant has been made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set out in Part B of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(c)    made for expenditures under Categories (1)(a), (4)(a) and (5)(a) unless the
Borrower has enacted amendments to its land tenure laws satisfactory to the Association
to facilitate the sub-division of land and has implemented policy measures satisfactory to
the Association to provide for the sub-division and sale of state farm lands.


﻿- 15 -
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent for goods and services and $150,000 equivalent for works, under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve food security, promote agricultural
growth, generate income and employment and increase export earnings through the
implementation of the Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Policy and Institutional Improvements
1.     Carrying out an assessment of MAFF's working procedures and proposing and
implementing reforms in order to strengthen MAFF's capacity to carry out policy reform,
to provide services to the agricultural sector, and to adopt sound accounting procedures
and financial controls.
2.     Monitoring and evaluation of agricultural sector activities, including sector studies,
sector performance analyses and beneficiary assessments, and addressing identified issues.
3.     Development and implementation of a program of restructuring or privatization
of agricultural services and parastatals.
4.     Carrying out a review   of legislation affecting the agricultural sector,
recommending appropriate changes to support the Program and implementing such
recommendations.
5.     Provision of staff training and acquisition of office equipment and vehicles.
Part B:       Investments
1.     Research
(a)    Carrying out of adaptive research on food crops and on traditional and
non-traditional export crops.
(b)    Rehabilitation or construction of agricultural research stations.


﻿- 17 -
(c)    Acquisition and maintenance of office equipment and vehicles.
(d)    Provision of training to agricultural research staff.
2.     Agricultural Extension and Information
Strengthening of the Borrower's agricultural extension and information system in
order to improve the quality of extension services and to expand coverage nationwide,
including:
(a)    provision of staff training and technical assistance;
(b)    acquisition and maintenance of equipment and vehicles; and
(c)    rehabilitation of field staff housing and information centers.
3.     Animal Production and Health
(a)    Establishment of an inter-disciplinary committee comprised of experts
drawn from the public and private sectors to coordinate emergency disease control.
(b)    Provision of staff training to improve field services and disease control.
(c)    Acquisition and maintenance of staff vehicles and equipment.
(d)    Construction and rehabilitation of staff houses and office buildings.
4.     Fisheries Development
(a)    Establishment of fish ponds for resource-poor households and stocking
of small water bodies with fingerlings.
(b)    Provision of staff training.
(c)    Construction and rehabilitation of staff and office buildings.
(d)    Acquisition and maintenance of office equipment and vehicles.


﻿- 18 -
5.     Farm Power and Mechanization
(a)    Strengthening the capacity of the National Mechanization Center to
develop new appropriate technology related to, and test the appropriateness of, newly
manufactured or imported farm equipment.
(b)    Provision of staff training on animal draft power.
(c)    Acquisition and maintenance of office equipment and vehicles.
6.     Irrigation
(a)    Reorganization of the Irrigation Engineering section of MAFF.
(b)    Provision of staff training.
(c)    Rehabilitation and construction of office and irrigation facilities.
(d)    Acquisition and maintenance of office equipment and vehicles.
7.     Agricultural Training
(a)    Strengthening the capacity of Selected Training Institutions to provide
agricultural training through:
(i)    provision of staff training;
(ii)   development of teaching resources and review of the curriculum
to make it more relevant;
(iii)  rehabilitation of office buildings and staff houses; and
(iv)   acquisition and maintenance of field and laboratory equipment
and of office vehicles.
(b)    Carrying out a program for the privatization of the Popota Tobacco
College, the Kalulushi Farm College and the Cooperative College.


﻿- 19 -
Part C:        Private Sector Development: Rural Finance
Provision of technical assistance and training to smallholder farmers and rural
entrepreneurs in order to increase their ability to access formal financial services for
agricultural inputs and to lower transaction costs of lenders.
Part D:        Pilot Investment Activities
1.     Rural Investment Fund
(a)    Financing of specific small-scale agricultural sub-projects through grants
to farmers' groups and associations; and
(b)    provision of training and technical assistance to smallholder farmers and
rural entrepreneurs to enable them to apply for grants and to carry out the Sub-projects.
2.      Sub-division and Privatization of State Farms
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower's Ministry of Lands to undertake
surveys, subdivision, allocation, and distribution of state and parastatal farms through:
(a)    carrying out an assessment of procedures and staffing and implementing
appropriate reforms;
(b)    provision of staff training;
(c)    acquisition and maintenance of office equipment and vehicles; and
(d)    rehabilitation of office buildings.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:       International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the
following additional procedures:
(a)    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period,
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect
changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such an
increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect
to each contract made subject to the Association's prior review in accordance with the
provisions of Part E. 1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be required
for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty
(60) days; and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)    In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Borrower
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes
of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.


﻿- 21 -
Part B:       Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A. 1 hereof, goods manufactured in Zambia may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:       Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in
Part A. 1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:       Other Procurement Procedures
1.     Subject to paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 below, civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$7,000,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract,
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.     Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or less per contract up to
an aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000 may be carried out by force account.
3.     Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at
least two different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
4.     Contracts for proprietary spares and equipment up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $500,000 may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 22 -
Part E:       Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)    With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 and $150,000, respectively, or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior
to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)    With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract,
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.     The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.


﻿- 23 -
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:       General Provisions
1.    In carrying out the Project and the Program, the Borrower shall maintain
implementation arrangements satisfactory to the Association, including, but not limited
to, the following:
(a)    the Borrower shall maintain in a form and with functions satisfactory to
the Association, the ASSC and the Financial Management Unit; and
(b)    the Borrower shall establish an inter-disciplinary committee comprised of
experts drawn from the public and private sectors to coordinate emergency disease control
measures by September 30, 1995.
2.     The Borrower shall cease budgetary releases for agricultural credit by
September 30, 1995 provided that releases not exceeding an aggregate amount of 24
billion Kwacha may be made to fund the Marketing Revolving Fund until June 30, 1996
or such later date as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon.
3.     The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1995, take measures satisfactory to the
Association to liquidate or restructure LIMA Bank Ltd.
4.     The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1995, furnish to the Association an action
plan satisfactory to the Association showing the scope of, and the timetable for, its state
farm privatization scheme.
Part B:       Rural Investment Fund
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying out Part D.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall adopt the following guidelines:
Eligibility of Sub-projects
1.     The Borrower shall, by September 30, 1995, adopt selection criteria satisfactory
to the Association for investments under Part D.1 of the Project.


﻿- 25 -
2.     Sub-projects related to crop and animal production in the following areas will be
eligible for financing under the Credit:
(a)    acquisition, maintenance and rehabilitation of equipment for land
preparation;
(b)    control of crop and livestock diseases;
(c)    pest management;
(d)    soil fertility improvement and soil conservation;
(e)    harvesting and post harvest handling of crops;
(f)    storage, transport and marketing of crops; and
(g)    other activities as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association.
Sub-project Cycle
3.     The Borrower shall adopt the following procedures in processing sub-projects:
(a)    Each beneficiary community will consist of a Farmers' Group or
Association (FG) which will be responsible for Sub-project implementation. The FG will
prepare proposals for Sub-projects. The proposal will include information on the
beneficiaries and a description of the Sub-project with cost.
(b)    The Sub-project proposal will be submitted to PPD for: (i) appraisal,
evaluation, review and approval; and (ii) all Sub-projects with a total cost equivalent to
$50,000 or more and all Sub-projects to be implemented within the first six months of
Project implementation will be submitted to the Association for approval prior to the
signing of the respective Sub-project Agreement.
Sub-Project Agreements
4.     After approval of the proposal by the PPD, the Borrower shall enter into a Sub-
project Agreement with the FG. The terms of the Sub-project Agreement shall be
satisfactory to the Association and shall include, inter alia, the Borrower obtaining rights
adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association, including:


﻿- 26 -
(a)    the Borrower's right to require the FG to carry out the Sub-project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)    the Borrower's right to inspect, by itself or jointly with the Association,
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(c)    the Borrower's right to obtain all such information as the Borrower or the
Association shall reasonably request regarding the foregoing, including the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Sub-project and the benefits to be derived from
the Sub-project;
(d)    the Borrower's right to suspend or terminate the right of the FG to use
the proceeds of the Credit for the Sub-project upon failure by any such FG to perform any
of its respective obligations under the Sub-project Agreement; and
(e)    the obligation of the FG to report on the progress of implementing the
Sub-project.
5.     The Sub-project Agreements shall stipulate that: (i) the goods, civil works and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased at a
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance
facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the
competence of the parties rendering them; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Sub-project.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-projects
6.     Sub-projects shall be financed on the following terms and conditions.
(a)    Financing shall be provided on a grant basis.
(b)    Unless otherwise agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association,
disbursements of the proceeds of grants for Sub-projects shall be made as follows: (i) a
mobilization advance of 30% of the estimated value of the Sub-project shall be disbursed
upon signing of the Sub-project Agreement; (ii) upon completion or implementation of
50% of the activities under the Sub-project, a further 30% of the estimated value of the


﻿- 27 -
Sub-project shall be disbursed; (iii) upon completion or implementation of 75% of the
activities under the Sub-project, a further 30% of the estimated value of the Sub-project
shall be disbursed; and (iv) the balance of 10% of the estimated value of the Sub-project
shall be paid upon completion of the Sub-project.
(c)    The Borrower shall obtain prior approval of the Association before
signing a Sub-project Agreement for any Sub-project whose cost is expected to exceed
the equivalent of $50,000.
General
7.     The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and, not later than June 30 in each year, submit
to the Association for review and comments a report showing: (i) the geographical and
sectoral distribution of Sub-projects, (ii) procurement performance, (iii) results of
monitoring activities including beneficiary assessments; and (iv) a work program
(including audits and monitoring) for the following year; and (b) put into effect the
corrective actions thereof, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, to improve
targeting of resources, or the procurement performance.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to (5) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 29 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;


﻿- 30 -
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)    Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c)
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


