                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR2517



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (TF093358)

                                           ON

                                     A GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50.0 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                     FOR THE

     ACEH – ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FINANCING FACILITY PROJECT



                                   May 28, 2013




Financial and Private Sector Development
Indonesia Country Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2013)

              Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (IDR or Rp)
                        US$ 1.00 = IDR 9,722.50

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 – December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA        Actionaid Australia
ADF        Aceh Development Fund
BAPPEDA    Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Daerah (of Government of Aceh)
BAPPENAS   State Ministry for Development and Planning (of GOI)
BPKP       Financial and Development Supervisory Board (Badan Pengawasan Keuangan
           dan Pembangunan
CCA        Canadian Cooperative Association
CCR        Caritas Czech Republic
DIPA       Daftar Isian Pelaksanaan Anggaran or Government of Indonesia annual budget
           allocation document
EDFF       Economic Development Financing Facility (The Project)
FMS        Financial Management Specialist
GOI        Government of Indonesia
IFR        Interim Financial Report
IOM        International Organization for Migration
IRW        Islamic Relief Worldwide
KPDT       Ministry for Disadvantaged Areas (of GOI)
KPI        Key Performance Indicator
MDF        Multi-Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and North Sumatra
MIA        Muslim Aid Indonesia
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MoU        Memorandum of Understanding
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
PMC        Project Management Consultant
PMU        Project Management Unit
RPJMD      Medium Term Development Plan of the Government of Aceh
Satker     Budget Executing Agency
SA         Special Account
SIE        Sub-project Implementing Entity
UNDP       United Nations Development Program


                        Vice President: Axel van Trotsenburg
                      Country Director: Stefan Koeberle
                       Sector Director: T. Tunc Uyanik
                  Project Team Leader: Alexandra Drees-Gross
                     ICR Team Leader: Nancy Chen
                               COUNTRY: INDONESIA
                  Aceh – Economic Development Financing Facility Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 32
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 34
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 36
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 37
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 38
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
  Annex 10. Analysis of EDFF Results ........................................................................... 46
  Annex 11. Summary Performance of SIEs, by SIE ...................................................... 49
  Annex 12. Analysis of Critical Risks at Appraisal and Risk Outcomes ....................... 53

  MAP …………………………………………………………………………………56
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Aceh Economic
Country:               Indonesia                Project Name:          Development Financing
                                                                       Facility
Project ID:            P109024                  L/C/TF Number(s):      TF-93358
ICR Date:              05/01/2013               ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                      Grantee:
                                                                       INDONESIA
Original Total
                       USD 50.00M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 44.46M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 50.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry for The Development of Disadvantaged Areas (KPDT)
 Government of Aceh
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process          Original Date
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/07/2007     Effectiveness:                            03/30/2009
                                                                               12/15/2011
Appraisal:            05/15/2008     Restructuring(s):
                                                                               06/26/2012
Approval:             12/16/2008     Mid-term Review:                          03/15/2011
                                     Closing:                06/30/2012        11/30/2012
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Grantee Performance:                            Moderately Unsatisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                 Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:            Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing           Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank            Moderately              Overall Borrower       Moderately
Performance:            Unsatisfactory          Performance:           Unsatisfactory
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Animal production                                                     25                  25
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                      45                  45
General industry and trade sector                                     20                  20
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry               5                   5
Public administration- Industry and trade                              5                   5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                20                  20
Other financial and private sector development                        20                  20
Rural markets                                                         20                  20
Rural non-farm income generation                                      20                  20
Rural services and infrastructure                                     20                  20
E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                 James W. Adams
Country Director:          Stefan G. Koeberle                   Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Manager:            Hormoz Aghdaey                       T. Tunc Uyanik
Project Team Leader:       Alexandra L. Drees-Gross             Thomas A. Rose
ICR Team Leader:           Nancy Chen
ICR Primary Author:        Lloyd R. Kenward

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Grant Agreement)
The objective of the Economic Development Financing Facility is to promote post-tsunami
economic recovery and foster sustainable equitable long-term economic development in Aceh in
line with Recipient’s own plans for economic development.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                         Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                           Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                             approval          Target        Completion or
                                           documents)          Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Employment generated in enterprises supported by the project
Value
quantitative or 0                            26381.00           34163.00        25000.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved                                09/30/2011         03/30/2011      06/30/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                  approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Private Sector Support: Enterprise supported
Value
(quantitative   0                            265                350             318
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                     09/30/2011         06/30/2012      09/30/2012
Comments
                Enterprises area supported in cocoa, coffee, patchouli, rice, emping, fisheries,
(incl. %
                and livestock.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Private Sector Support: Farmers and fisherman communities supported
Value
(quantitative   0                            26381.00           25000.00        34163.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                     09/30/2011         06/30/2012      09/30/2012
Comments        The project directly supports both marine and aquaculture fishermen; livestock,
(incl. %        rice, patchouli, cocoa, and coffee farmers. Indirectly, the project supports more
achievement) than 100,000 beneficiaries.
Indicator 3 : Public Infrastructure: Infrastructure built
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         14.00              250.00          203.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                     09/30/2011         06/30/2012      09/28/2012
Comments
                Completed infrastructure includes learning centers, nurseries, jetty, hatchery,
(incl. %
                zooplankton facility, warehouse for warehouse receipts system.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Public Infrastructure: Infrastructure built being used by intended beneficiaries
Value
(quantitative   0.00                         100.00             80.00           100.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2010                     09/30/2011         06/30/2012      09/27/2012
Comments        All infrastructure built to-date is being used by the intended beneficiaries.
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Effective Project Management: Capacity of implementing agencies built
Value
(quantitative     10.00                     13.00               10.00        13.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     03/30/2009                09/30/2011          06/30/2012   09/27/2012
Comments
                  12 PMU and 1 KPDT staff involved in implementation of the project full time.
(incl. %
                  KPDT also has 4 part time consultants and 1 part time staff.
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Effective Project Management: Sub-projects successfully implemented
Value
(quantitative     0.00                      37.50               75.00        50.00
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2010                12/31/2011          06/30/2012   09/27/2012
Comments
                  Swisscontact, CCA, CCR, ADF, and IOM sub-projects have broadly been
(incl. %
                  implemented successfully, according to most recent monitoring reports.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
         Date ISR
No.                                 DO                        IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     10/29/2009             Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                  5.00
                                Moderately                Moderately
  2     09/17/2010                                                                        18.98
                               Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately                Moderately
  3     04/11/2011                                                                        28.10
                               Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately                Moderately
  4     10/18/2011                                                                        44.46
                               Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
                                                          Moderately
  5     04/16/2012        Moderately Satisfactory                                         44.46
                                                         Unsatisfactory
                                                          Moderately
  6     11/03/2012        Moderately Satisfactory                                         44.46
                                                         Unsatisfactory
H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
 12/15/2011               MU     MU          44.46
 06/26/2012               MS     MU          44.46
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     On December 26 2004, a major tsunami devastated the coastal regions of North-Western
Sumatra, Indonesia. According to Indonesia’s National Disaster Relief Coordination Agency,
126,915 people died in the tsunami and another 37,063 were missing; the UN estimated that
655,000 people were homeless and took shelter in scattered refugee camps across the province.
Bappenas’ (State Ministry for Development and Planning) preliminary damage assessment
estimated that 80,000 small- and medium-sized enterprises were destroyed, representing a loss of
employment for 140,000 people. Almost all casualties and damage were within the province of
Aceh.

2.       The Governments of Indonesia (GoI) and of Aceh (GoA) responded quickly with a
reconstruction program that was one of the largest such efforts in the developing world. In
support the international community mobilized large amounts of financing, including a Multi-
Donor Trust Fund for Aceh and Nias (MDF) which, after extension, ran through end-2012. The
initiative mobilized some US$650 million from 15 donors in support of the government’s
rehabilitation and reconstruction blueprint. To move beyond rehabilitation and reconstruction,
the Aceh Economic Development Financing Facility (EDFF) was designed to fill a gap up to that
point, namely to assist in sustainable long-term economic recovery and development. The
project, funded from MDF resources in the amount of US$50 million plus a government
contribution of US$2.85 million, began in January 2009.

3.      Local Economic Context. The tsunami followed many years of civil unrest in Aceh.
Taken altogether, these factors contributed significantly to high unemployment and poverty in
Aceh, with a large share of the population subsisting just above the poverty line. In the year
prior to the tsunami, 2004, the economy had contracted by 10 percent, owing mainly to a decline
in manufacturing and the oil and gas industry, which accounted for some 28 percent of GDP at
project appraisal. In the year after the tsunami, the economy contracted by a further 10 percent,
reflecting the impact of the tsunami on the manufacturing and agriculture sectors. In 2006, the
economy expanded modestly (by 1.6 percent, owing mainly to the reconstruction effort) before
contracting again in 2007 and 2008, by 2.4 percent and 5.2 percent respectively. At project
appraisal, a strong recovery of the agriculture and manufacturing sectors was critically vital to
avoiding a continuing structural decline as reconstruction activity wound down. A special note
in this regard concerned known gas reserves, which were projected to decline to near zero by
2014.

4.      The Reconstruction Program. Following the tsunami, the GoI and GoA quickly
committed to rebuilding Aceh, with a reconstruction program estimated at approximately US$7.7
billion, spread over the period 2005-09. Looking beyond reconstruction, both governments
identified economic growth as an essential element of recovery. At the same time, GoA
highlighted a series of factors hampering Aceh’s longer-term economic development (e.g., weak
government, damaged infrastructure, and low investment) in the agriculture, manufacturing and
services sectors.



                                               1
5.      Rationale for Bank Involvement. As presented in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), the World Bank was well-positioned to act as Partner Agency under the EDFF’s MDF.
The Bank had extensive prior engagement in Aceh, and the project built upon the direction set
out in the Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy FY2004-07 (especially the role of communities
and local governments in shaping their own development objectives). The project was also
consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) 2009-12 for Indonesia, including reliance
upon and strengthening government systems.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      Objectives. The project’s higher-level Project Development Objective (PDO1) was to
promote post-tsunami economic recovery and foster sustainable equitable long-term economic
development in Aceh in line with the Recipient’s own plans for economic development. To
achieve this PDO, the project would finance sub-projects that contribute to the following
objectives, identified by GoA as key for sustainable economic development in Aceh:

        Development of job-creating, market-driven enterprises engaged in value-added
         processing and manufacturing, especially in agriculture and fisheries;
        Sustainable improvement of production quality and value in agriculture, fisheries and
         estate crops that contributes to alleviation of poverty;
        Increase in international trade, especially direct exports; and
        Increase in domestic and foreign investment in Aceh

7.     The project also focused on capacity building of the Development and Planning Agency
of Aceh (Bappeda), which housed EDFF’s Project Management Unit (PMU). This capacity
building was seen as particularly important in light of the large amount of financing available to
the provincial government through the recently created Special Autonomy Fund. KPDT (the
State Ministry for Disadvantaged Areas, EDFF’s main counterpart in Jakarta) was also expected
to benefit from skills development, although this was officially outside the mandate of MDF.

8.     Key Performance Indicators2 (KPIs). The following key performance indicators
(KPIs) were to be used to assess progress in achieving the PDO:

        Number of business constraints that were successfully alleviated in Aceh;
        Employment generated in enterprises supported by the project;
        Number of users of public infrastructure financed by the project; and
        Success rate of sub-projects financed by the project.3



1
   The PDO in the PAD is slightly different from that of the Grant Agreement but has the same meaning.
2
   Please note that the ISR results framework was not fully complete, as only one of the three KPIs were reported in
the ISR, although it was monitored and the PMU had report on it.
3
  The PAD is contradictory as to whether this is a KPI or an Intermediate Outcome Indicator. In the PAD (p. 5), it is
listed as a KPI, but in the Results Framework and Monitoring (Annex 3), it is an Intermediate Outcome. The Grant
Agreement (Annex 2 to Schedule 2) is consistent with the PAD’s Annex 3.


                                                         2
9.    Intermediate Outcomes. Moving down the hierarchy of the EDFF’s Results Framework,
the PAD identified three Intermediate Outcomes (also known as ‘Results Areas’):

       i)      Improving the Business Environment: a better enabling environment for private
               sector development and investment;
       ii)     Private Sector Support: to improve the productivity of the private sector, farmers
               and fishermen; and
       iii)    Public Infrastructure: financing of economic infrastructure necessary for business
               development and job creation

10.     For the PDO and each Intermediate Outcome, quantitative results indicators were defined
and would be linked to Outputs once the sub-projects were identified. An analysis of EDFF
Results is summarized in the Aceh EDFF Final Report, and reproduced as Annex 10. Please also
refer to Section 1.3 for more discussion.

11.    As designed, EDFF was innovative in that it delegated project implementation and
budget to the province as a way to help build capacity to implement similar projects at the local
level. Also, it was the first time that economic growth sub-projects were being implemented
through sub-grants from the government to international and local NGOs. This approach resulted
in enormous implementation challenges, indeed far more difficult than anticipated at design.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

12.     At the time of project approval, the sub-projects were not yet identified. Consequently, it
was impossible to develop specific output indicators at that stage. Accordingly, the PAD (p. 47)
explicitly notes the likely need to revisit the Results Framework once the sub-projects had been
selected. As a result, in early 2011 the Government and Bank project team identified specific
monitoring indicators and reported back to the MDF Technical Working Group on the Results
Framework. While the overall objectives were not revised, one PDO-level outcome indicator,
the number of business constraints alleviated, was rendered less relevant due to a lack of sub-
project proposals in this area.

13.     The additional intermediate indicators mainly refined Results Area #2 (Private Sector
Support), especially sustainable improvement of production quality and value in agriculture,
fisheries and estate crops. The great majority were output indicators. Also, the training
indicators are totally quantitative, that is, taking the quality and targeting of the training for
granted.

14.     As for the values of performance targets, only one (a 75 percent success rate for sub-
projects) was specified in the PAD. All others (see Annex 10) were chosen in the course of sub-
project selection. This provided a great deal of flexibility during implementation.




                                                3
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

15.     According to the PAD (p. 5 and p. 75), the beneficiaries of the sub-projects would be the
people, businesses and communities of Aceh. Further details were to be defined in the sub-
projects.

16.     Beneficiary details are well-documented in the Aceh EDFF Final Report (Chapter 5 and
Annex 14) and they vary widely by Intermediate Outcome/Results Area. In general,
beneficiaries of outputs were primary commodity producers (especially cocoa, coffee and
fisheries); small and medium-sized enterprises; forums and traders associations; cooperatives;
and regional governments. Beneficiaries totaled 36,568 persons (versus a target of 36,706) and
were spread across 962 desas, 142 sub-districts and 17 districts. With regard to capacity
development (generally interpreted in project documentation as one aspect of project
management), the main beneficiaries were the PMU, Bappeda, Satker and to a lesser extent the
KPDT staff in the EDFF Secretariat. The main strategy was learning-by-doing, because the
scope for formal skills and knowledge transfer was limited by the small number of counterpart
staff and their turnover, especially at the EDFF Secretariat in KPDT.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

17.    The project had two main components. Component One of US$44.5 million financed the
sub-projects that were to be identified, except in general terms (Section 2.1). Component Two
(US$5.5 million) financed project management and capacity building, including an international
consultancy to assist the project management. The main beneficiary was expected to be Bappeda
Aceh (the provincial-level implementing agency), although some support for KPDT was
envisaged as well.

1.6 Revised Components

18.    There were no major changes to project components. However, as the sub-projects took
shape, the emphasis in Component One shifted noticeably from ‘Improving the Business
Environment’ (Results Area #1) in favor of ‘Private Sector Support’ (Results Area #2).

1.7 Other significant changes

19.     Extension and Reallocation of Cost Categories. The project faced extensive start-up
and implementation delays, including those relating to sub-project selection and implementation,
procurement and financial management. As a result, in December 2011 the project closing date
was extended from June 30, 2012 to November 30, 2012 in order to provide additional time to
complete project activities and help to achieve the PDO. Along with this extension, the Ministry
of Finance also requested a minor reallocation of cost categories to provide additional resources
for the incremental operating cost and consultant services categories (Table 1). This reallocation
was considered necessary during the extension period to provide the government with sufficient
resources to achieve the project objectives.




                                                4
Table 1. Reallocation of Cost Categories
    Category                         Original Grant       Revised Grant            Percentage of
                                         Allocation           Allocation        Expenditures to be
                                           (in US$)             (in US$)             Financed
                                                                                (inclusive of taxes)
    Sub-project Grants                    44,500,000           43,400,000              100%
    Consultant Services                    5,255,000            6,100,000              100%
    Incremental Operating Costs              245,000              500,000              100%
    Total                                 50,000,000           50,000,000


20.    NGOs Dominate. As envisaged in the PAD, the sub-project implementing entities
(SIEs) could be non-governmental organizations (NGOs) (local or international), private sector
organizations or international aid agencies. In the event, 4 only NGOs were selected.
Specifically, seven out of eight were international NGOs (four partnering with local institutions)
and one was a local NGO. These international NGOs brought significant community-level
implementation expertise and strong governance, especially as regards transparent procurement
processes. However they lacked experience in dealing with the World Bank’s and GoI’s
processes and regulations. This had significant ramifications and created major implementation
delays as these firms had to gain knowledge and familiarity with the project procedures.
Although administrative and financial management capacity assessments were conducted as part
of sub-project selection, the difficulties in adapting each organization’s systems to the project
procedures were significantly underestimated. This can be considered one of the main factors
negatively affecting implementation.

21.    Narrower Scope in Shorter Timeframe. As described in Section 2, the project got off
to a very slow start, which effectively cut the implementation period roughly in half. This
reduced the scope and scale of some sub-projects and required some activities to be dropped (see
the “Main Problem? column of Annex 11).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.     Sound Contextual Analysis. The background analysis for this project was overall well
done, drawing upon the Bank’s already extensive experience in post-tsunami Aceh. The PAD
provides a clear statement of the then-current economic and institutional (GoI and GoA)
situations, including the state of reconstruction efforts and the outlook for key sectors of the
economy. The only obvious deficiency in this area concerns the limited discussion on the state


4
  In explaining this outcome, the careful wording in the PAD is notable, namely, private sector organizations (italics
added) implied non-profit organizations, not businesses; in the local context, inviting businesses could have opened
the door to the possibility of nepotism and/or financial irregularities. Also, among international aid agencies, the
most likely applicants would have been United Nations agencies, which would have had trouble reconciling their
own operating guidelines with those of the Bank. For their part, local NGOs generally found the application
procedures to be onerous. The best outcome would have been a strong partnership between an international and
local NGO.


                                                          5
of the NGO community. In light of NGOs’ important role in the project–and, ultimately, their
highly mixed performance as SIEs–more discussion was warranted as to their likely capacity as
managers of World Bank and GoI projects.5

23.     Strong government ownership and local government involvement. The decision to
work through government systems for the project had important benefits and resulted in a high
degree of ownership throughout implementation. The decision to select sub-projects in a number
of sectors (as opposed to just one or two) and work in as many districts as possible also resulted
in a strong sense of ownership of the project across the province and in many communities and
helped achieve broad support for it at critical times.

24.     General Design Issues. Discussions on the project began in mid-2006, with the
intention of proceeding on an emergency basis to fill a gap in post-tsunami assistance, namely
the lack of attention to longer-term growth and development. However, design issues quickly
emerged. For example, GoI appears to have had doubts as to how much financial authority
should be delegated to GoA. Likewise, differences arose between GoA’s wish (one project for
each of the 17 districts in Aceh) and the mandate of MDF (which emphasized regions directly
impacted by the tsunami). These issues caused delays and forced compromises, like a smaller
number of sub-projects, but with cross-district coverage. Also, the process at this stage entailed
a time-consuming, two-layer review and approval process, by the Bank and MDF. The latter
entailed resolving the diverse views of a large consortium of donors in an already complex
operation. Indeed, there were serious discussions of dropping the project at this stage. But after
due consideration, the decision of the Steering Committee was to proceed, in the belief that the
remaining time was adequate for good outcomes, despite the risks. This stage of the project
consumed 1½ years.

25.     As designed, the project had three key characteristics: it was innovative (Section 1.2); it
had a great deal of built-in flexibility, because the sub-projects were still to be selected; and it
was ambitious, particularly in light of the short project lifetime (3½ years).6 Being innovative
was useful under the circumstances and the extent of the built-in flexibility demonstrated
valuable foresight. However the ambitious number 7 and complexity of the envisaged sub-
projects made for a risky project even after risk mitigation measures. See Sections 3.1 and 4 for
more discussion of the downstream implications.

26.      Specific Design Weaknesses. There were five important issues in this area.



5
  Please refer to Annex 12 for more details.
6
  The PAD readily acknowledged these issues, but mainly saw them as an evaluation issue (p. 54).
7
  For instance, the PAD (Table 9, p. 64) mentioned a total of 11-16 large sub-projects and 8-12 small ones. In the
event, implementing 8 sub-projects proved difficult. In commenting on this issue, the Bank’s design team believe
that this interpretation of the number of projects cited in Table 9 of the PAD is misleading because the total number
was not intended to be additive across Results Areas. Apparently, their intention was to have 6 or 7 large projects
(to achieve economies of scale) plus a few smaller ones (to accommodate innovative, but risky undertakings,
probably to help local NGOs get started). In retrospect, even this would have been challenging. A better strategy
would have been to start smaller (say 3-4 sub-projects); work out the implementation arrangements better; and then
scale-up in a successor project (Section 6).


                                                          6
    1. A complex project structure that made for slow decision-making and diffused
       responsibilities. The project structure included national, regional and local governments,
       which sometimes had competing interests; several (ultimately 8) diverse sub-projects and
       SIEs; and 15 aid donors with the Bank serving as Partner Agency for the MDF.
       Individually, there were good reasons for these complexities,8 but collectively they were
       burdensome.

    2. The project was ‘on-budget and on-treasury.’ Notwithstanding an early agreement to the
       contrary, 9 SIEs had to comply with GoI as well as World Bank processes and regulations.
       Many of the SIEs were well-established with a good track record in finance and
       procurement, using their own systems. Nevertheless they had to adjust to new World
       Bank and government policies, which required a major effort by all parties. The
       difficulties were seriously underestimated at design.

    3. Project design included a process for choosing the sub-projects. Unfortunately, the initial
       nine months or so were consumed by the call for and selection of sub-project proposals,10
       some of which were hundreds of pages long. In addition, after the long selection process,
       certain time-consuming administration requirements from government and World Bank
       further delayed field implementation. Taken together, these reduced the initial 36 month
       timeline to around 18 months. The selection process did not allow enough time to look at
       an adequately wide range of criteria, for example, field visits and possibly a review of
       partnership arrangements. Also, the selection committee excluded national consultants
       and experts from the provincial and district departments of local government who could
       have given quality inputs.

    4. Capacity development at Bappeda Aceh (and, to a lesser extent, KPDT) was important
       for this project (p. 4 of the PAD) and Component #2 was dedicated to these activities.
       But the PAD design did not ensure success in this regard as an Intermediate
       Outcome/Results Area, nor were there any KPIs. As designed, 11 this important function
       would have had secondary priority for any results-oriented PMC.

    5. The fixed closing date for the project limited sustainability. From inception, EDFF was
       constrained by the pre-determined closing date for MDF; there was no possibility for an
       extension beyond this point. Given the project complexity and implementation


8
   All these agencies were important at one stage or another of the project, and it would have been counter-
productive to try to bypass any of them.
9
   As an early attempt at compromise, an agreement was reached that SIEs could use their own internal systems, as
long as they corresponded with regulations of the World Bank and GoI. Both World Bank and GoI rules would
apply, and in the case of contradictions, the Bank’s would apply. Unfortunately, BPKP Aceh (the local arm of GoI’s
Supreme Audit Agency) never fully bought into this agreement and there was no mechanism for resolving conflicts
between the two systems.
10
   For most of this time, the PMU was just getting off the ground; the PMC was barely operational; and all
counterpart staff in project implementation were newly-recruited. Still, Bank staff were reluctant to get involved in
the substance of the selection process, because it was considered very important that GoA learn from, and have
ownership of, the selection process.
11
   This oversight was corrected during redesign of the Results Framework during implementation, a good example
of the project’s flexibility.


                                                         7
        difficulties, many sub-projects had to curtail their planned activities in one way or
        another. This greatly reduced potential for sustainability.

27.     Quality at Entry. There was no Quality at Entry assessment of this project.

2.2 Implementation

28.     Despite initial implementation delays, the project achieved important results on the
ground in a remarkably short implementation period of time. Several of the NGOs, particularly
in the cocoa, coffee, patchouli and agriculture sectors, managed to reach nearly 35,000 farmers
through various interventions. Largely, the NGOs implemented a model that combined
international experience with SME development programs with local partners and cooperative
groups. Training and technical assistance activities focused broadly on developing improved
agricultural practices, marketing and business development skills, and establishing linkages with
markets. While there were shortcomings in the design, EDFF was a notably ambitious and bold
project that has shaped some key sectors in Aceh (i.e. cocoa) through knowledge transfer and
capacity building and demonstrated a potential of an NGO partnership model for the
Government to replicate in order to meet economic development goals in disadvantaged
communities.

29.     Broad distribution of subprojects across the province. As mentioned above, the broad
distribution of EDFF sub-project across the province – which was a strategic decision by the
Government in sub-project selection – was a success factor and generated important support in
hundreds of communities and broadly shared the benefits of the project.

30.   Governance issues. Governance issues in project management and sub-project
implementation had a significant impact on the overall EDFF project results. These issues at
times created a very challenging operating environment for the NGOs, and affected
implementation of the sub-projects by delaying procurement or implementation of key activities.

31.     Uneven Implementation Capacity. The various sub-projects covered a great deal of
ground (Annex 2), and they were implemented by a diverse group of NGOs (Annex 2). Not
surprisingly, wide differences in capacity became obvious during implementation. As highlights,
one SIE turned in a stellar performance (Section 3.2), whereas the others were spread out, right
to the opposite end of the performance spectrum (Annex 11). In general, most SIEs delivered
their main outputs, despite challenges and delays (see following paragraphs). Shortfalls during
implementation were often due to the limited time left for consolidation of gains and steps to
help with sustainability (Section 4).

32.    Several sub-projects had a number of notable implementation difficulties, the great
majority of which could be categorized as ‘not subject to their control.’12 First, several SIEs
experienced difficulties with their local partners, in some cases leading to a split in the
partnership. Second, the sub-projects relied in substantial part upon cooperatives as the


12
  Appendix F to “Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines,? OPCS, dated August 2006, last
updated 10/05/2011, p. 51.


                                                     8
institution-of-choice for sustainable development. As a conceptual device, this approach was
questionable, considering the checkered history of cooperatives in Indonesia. Third, most of the
SIEs opted for newly formed cooperatives or groups, 13 instead of attempting to reform existing
entities. This may have been a mistake because start-up proved to be time-consuming, and this
cut further into the available implementation period. Fourth, most SIEs were reluctant to team
up with private sector entities, whereas the best results were achieved in sub-projects where the
private sector was involved (e.g. Swisscontact, IOM and CCR; see Annex 11).

33.   Procurement Issues. 14 The eight sub-projects averaged 63 procurements, which
encompassed a wide range of procurement methods. This presented a challenging, time-
consuming task for all during implementation because:

        SIE procurement officers had no experience with applying World Bank procurement
         guidelines. This seriously delayed the processing of documents.
        Several SIEs lacked expertise in areas like technical design and specifications,
         advertisements and contracting, and while these are project management issues they in
         turn impacted on the timeliness of the procurement process.
        The procurement experts of the PMC: (1) did not prepare applicable sample documents
         for the NGOs; (2) did not provide sufficient training to the NGOs before their sub-
         projects were implemented; and (3) were not available for some periods of the project
         implementation.
        A lack of familiarity with the World Bank procurement guidelines and how they differ
         from that of the SIE led to significant confusion, frustration and duplication of effort.
        The Bank’s preference for National Competitive Bidding over flexible procurement
         mechanisms, like community contracting for certain non-typical goods (e.g. livestock),
         was problematic in the local context. It created resentments vis-a-vis some SIEs who had
         experience, expertise and confidence in these approaches. It also undermined local
         ownership of the investments, thereby reducing sustainability. Also, the Bank’s last ex-
         post review raised some questions about the true level of competitiveness in the bidding
         process of some of the packages of non-typical goods, and the concerned local SIEs
         acknowledged their weakness in identifying governance issues in procurement and they
         pledged to focus and build their capacity for addressing such issues in the future.

34.    Procurement Rating.              The procurement rating for this project is “Moderately
Unsatisfactory.?

35.   Financial Management and Audit. Issues in this area were similar in nature and
magnitude to those concerning procurement just discussed.



13
   Documentation (Aceh EDFF Final Report, p.23) indicates that SIEs wanted to avoid existing cooperatives in
Aceh, which are generally considered weak and often seen as social institutions depending on government aid, not
self-supporting, business-oriented organizations. It remains unclear as to why the SIEs believed that newly-
established cooperatives would ultimately function any better than existing ones.
14
   By and large, these factors (and those under Financial Management and Audit) were outside the control of
government, the SIEs and the Bank; they were indicative of the project’s complex operating environment.


                                                        9
        Key tasks originally allocated to the KPDT Secretariat (e.g., the compilation of the
         monthly financial reports) had to be reallocated to the PMU because KPDT lacked
         capacity. Also, the budget executing agency’s (Satker’s) requests relating to those
         financial reports required the PMU to verify all supporting documents submitted by the
         SIEs. PMU was unprepared for these developments, which required 7 additional staff.
        Once the SIEs were operational, there was insufficient supervision of the SIEs by the
         PMU/PMC.
        Delays were occasioned by the government’s demanding budgetary management (i.e.,
         DIPA) system.15 In principle, this factor was ‘subject to the government’s control.’
        Not all parties bought into the early agreement that World Bank financial management
         guidelines would be operative (see footnote 10). Many GoI/BPKP findings (which
         contradicted Bank guidelines) could never be resolved and several SIEs had to repay
         considerable amounts of money.
        Follow-up to Bank audit findings sometimes proved challenging due to insufficient exit
         meetings prior to report finalization.
        Many of the same considerations apply to the process of asset transfer, done under time
         pressures at the end of the project. At this point, governance issues and transparency of
         process were particularly important issues.

36.   Financial Management Rating. The financial management rating for this project is
“Moderately Unsatisfactory.?

37.    Excessively Short Implementation Period. These many start-up and implementation
problems seriously compressed the SIEs’ implementation period, from 36 months to 15-20
months, depending upon the start-up date of the sub-project. As mentioned, the implementation
period was eventually extended by 5 months.

38.     Intensive Implementation Support. The project required intensive implementation
support from the grant of US$ 5 million for a PMC to manage the project and from MDF funds
to finance the Bank team’s implementation support. Effectively, this project was more akin to 8
small projects than one mid-sized project and implementation and administrative requirements
reflected this (Section 3.3).




15
   Complexities of the DIPA process were known beforehand, but Bank staff had assurances from Bappenas that the
process could be more flexible for grant financing. Also, the Ministry of Finance was open to the possibility of
providing financing out-of-cycle with the DIPAs. However this flexibility proved inadequate, and there may have
been a problem with KPDT’s capacity to prepare the DIPAs.


                                                      10
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

39.     M&E took place at several levels in this project, including at the PMU/PMC, Bappeda
Aceh, the local government and KPDT. For the purposes of this ICR, the main focus is on the
project’s Results Monitoring Framework, which as updated after selection of the sub-projects,
would form the basis for Evaluation, according to the PAD (p.54). It is important to note that the
design to update the result framework after sub-project selection was agreed upon explicitly
during project design and the MDF Technical Working Group endorsed the updated indicators.

40.     M&E Design. The PAD’s M&E design had some minor technical problems,16 but by
and large was satisfactory for that stage. Review of the Results Monitoring Framework, after
identification of the sub-projects, led to only modest higher-level changes (Section 1.3). In its
details, the Framework’s most notable feature was its heavy reliance upon output (not outcome)
indicators. This is largely due to the difficulties of measuring outcomes from a short
implementation period, which was already down to roughly 1½ years at this stage.

41.     The M&E Unit of the PMU/PMC, which was responsible for design, coordination and
implementation of the M&E system, including field verification visits and coaching the SIEs.
Their main reporting tools were a Quarterly Physical and Financial Progress table (QPF) and
District Commodity Progress report (RCD). The former reported progress against the work plan,
including financial and physical progress.17 The latter was a table of output indicators by sub-
project/SIE, by district and by commodity that, in principle, are linked to key EDFF results
indicators.18

42.     In another notable step, the PAD’s Results Framework was expanded to include sub-
project outputs and reworked into a simple, coherent presentation. In examining this
Framework’s results chain, the linkages from inputs to outputs to outcomes are clear. Namely,
the project’s inputs were directed at successful completion of the sub-projects, which were
selected to support economic development in the agriculture (food crops, non-food crops and
fisheries) and manufacturing sectors. These sectors had already been identified as priorities in
Aceh’s regional economic development plan, and the sub-project selection process included
representation from the central government; the Governor of Aceh’s office; the Aceh Bappeda;
and a member of the academic community in Aceh. This is fully in line with the PDO, as well as
GoI’s own plans (Section 1.2). Outputs and outcomes are reviewed in Annexes 2 and 3,
respectively.

43.    M&E Implementation & Utilization. Implementation of the M&E system was slow at
the outset as it was initially difficult to agree upon reporting formats. In addition, the SIEs’
logframes and existing reports could not be easily linked to the EDFF Results Framework (which
motivated development of the RCD report). However once the QPF and RCD reports were
operational, they seem to have worked well for monitoring outputs, despite technical problems


16
   These concerned some limited, but notable, confusion between Outputs and Outcomes at the Intermediate
Outcome Indicator level for the project (Table 7 in the PAD).
17
   Physical progress (in %) calculates cumulative outputs of activities, weighting activities by budget.
18
   The M&E unit also collected detailed beneficiaries lists from each SIE.


                                                      11
with the QPF;19 the RCD reports are the basis for the great bulk of the project’s evaluation data.
No information is available on the reports’ cost to the PMC; SIEs found the formats burdensome,
partly because Bappeda was anxious to link it into their provincial system.

44.      The PMC’s M&E system has yielded an impressive volume of data on, among others,
SIE outputs, beneficiaries and outcomes. In reviewing this system, a few important issues came
to light:

        The ratings system for sub-projects is potentially controversial. In particular, if the rating
         is based primarily on Results,20 only 3 of the sub-projects were rated as ‘Satisfactory’ or
         above (column 3 of Annex 11). Two others were rated as ‘Moderately Satisfactory.? On
         this basis, one Intermediate-level performance indicator (and KPI) is not met.
        However, if performance also takes into account financial issues, administrative
         management and reporting, two SIEs would go up in the ratings and one would go down.
         On this basis, the Intermediate-level performance indicator is met.21
        This ICR relies upon the results-oriented rating, which is more consistent with ICR
         Guidelines.22
        In examining the final Physical Progress Report (Annex 23 of the Aceh EDFF Final
         Report), this review spotted sufficient errors in the calculations to undermine confidence
         in the accuracy of the final numbers.23

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

45.     Environmental Safeguards. There were no important issues in this area.
Implementation of the sub-projects’ environmental safeguards demonstrates that all requirements
were met with little or no negative environmental impact. Indeed, the sub-projects are credited
with promoting good environmental practices through awareness-building and environmentally
friendly practices supported by the project (e.g., for cocoa, coffee and patchouli). In general the
project promoted best environmental management practices that are in line with the
environmental safeguards principles that comply with both Bank and Indonesian national
requirements.

46.    The only notable point concerns the PAD’s classification of all proposed sub-projects as
“Category B? projects (which requires an Environmental Management Plan). Subsequently,
most sub-projects were reclassified as “Category C? projects, implying that no further
environmental actions were required, beyond signing a Statement of Environmental


19
    In particular, the methodology biases measurement in favor of achieving objectives. Also, it assumes a stable
and consistent statement of planned outputs. In practice, the SIEs regularly revised their budgets and planned
activities.
20
    Source: Annex 6, p.147 of the Aceh EDFF Final Report.
21
    Source: See preceding footnote.
22
   “Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines,? OPCS, dated August 2006, last updated
10/05/2011, p. 8 (unnumbered).
23
    Namely, six errors for one SIE report, chosen at random, from Annex 5 of the Aceh EDFF Final Report.


                                                         12
Commitment. Ultimately the reclassification saved the SIE’s a lot of unnecessary work, but it
also caused confusion and wasted effort at the outset.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

47.     As mentioned, EDFF was always constrained by a fixed endpoint due to the pre-
determined closing date (end-2012) for MDF. There was no possibility for an extension beyond
this point and no follow-on project is in store.

48.     Three sub-projects (ADF, IRW and Swisscontact) were able to line up some follow-on
financial support. However, a comprehensive solution that would address the need, for example,
for continued training for the EDFF-supported cooperatives was not found. These considerations
underscore the issue of sustainability, which is discussed in Section 4.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

49.     Relevance of Project Design Objective. Appropriately, the project’s PDO is carefully
worded, while aiming high. In particular, the phrase “To promote post-tsunami economic
recovery and foster sustainable? (italics added) is descriptively accurate, without over-
commitment. This is important because, while EDFF’s resources were sizable, they were small
relative to Aceh’s economic development needs and challenges. In addition the PDO is
adequately clear and suitable as a follow-on operation to post-tsunami rehabilitation and
reconstruction. Furthermore it is consistent with the direction set out in the Bank’s key country
strategy documents (Section 1.1).

50.     Two other aspects of the PDO are especially notable because they would have important,
and largely unforeseen, implications during implementation. These were the emphasis on
equitable long-term development in line with GoI’s own plans for economic development. In
the local context, these almost guaranteed that cooperatives would play a major role in the
project. This, in conjunction with a 3½ year project lifetime, set the stage for issues of
sustainability (Section 4).

51.     The clarity of the PDO was diluted somewhat by the supplementary importance attached
to capacity building at the main GoI counterparts. Capacity building at GoI counterparts was
inevitable, but it added an institutional development dimension to the project, whose difficulty
looks to have been seriously underestimated.

52.     Continuing Relevance of the PDO. The PDO remained highly relevant throughout the
project’s lifetime. As tsunami reconstruction wound down, the GoA remained (and remains)
highly focused on the challenges relating to building the foundations for sustained economic
development in Aceh.

53.      Relevance of Design. As mentioned in Section 2, EDFF’s project design was innovative,
institutionally complex, very ambitious and flexible.



                                               13
      Innovative. According to the PAD, the project broke new ground for GoI insofar as this
       was the first time that economic growth sub-projects were being implemented through
       sub-grants from the government to private international and local entities, including
       NGOs. Unfortunately, although the NGOs provided to bring in important knowledge and
       expertise in certain areas, the non-piloted implementation arrangements proved much
       more difficult than anticipated.
      But Overly Complex. As discussed, the project was too complex for such a short
       timeframe, and there was no possibility for extension beyond December 2012. In light of
       the innovative and untested implementation arrangements, the project should have been a
       ‘pilot project’.
       And Too Ambitious. Notwithstanding this complexity, the design envisaged significant
       outcomes in 4 wide-ranging ‘Results Areas’ by 8 diverse SIEs in a short period, 3½ years.
       The number of sub-projects should have been significantly smaller.
      But Built-in Flexibility Helped Save the Project. Of necessity, many design details had to
       be delayed until the sub-projects were selected, but this also provided the project with
       enough flexibility to adjust as circumstances unfolded in the field. This turned out to be
       very important during implementation. Indeed, this flexibility–combined with an
       extension and a major push towards the end of the project–contributed to considerable
       results during the project’s final stage.

54.     Risk Assessment at Design. At appraisal, the project was understood to be a risky
undertaking. Indeed, overall risk was categorized as ‘Substantial’ after mitigation measures.
Seven ‘High’ risks were identified, most of them implementation risks at the sub-project level.
After mitigation measures, all were reduced to a ‘Significant’ risk. As the project developed,
most of these high risks eventuated, and the risk mitigation measures proved inadequate and
ineffective (see Annex 12 for analysis).

55.     Relevance of Implementation. Initial implementation was dedicated to the sub-project
application and selection process, which faced serious delays as discussed (Section 2.1). The
next stage was dominated by issues of procurement and financial management, some of which
did not get resolved during the project’s lifetime (Section 2.2).

56.      By the time the SIEs actually got their operations off the ground, the implementation
period had been cut roughly in half. Consequently, the envisaged scale and scope of some sub-
projects had to be cut back; several physical investments were cancelled and many training
activities to promote sustainability were cancelled or shortened. With only 12 months left before
the envisaged project closing date (June 2012), SIE disbursements were only 16.2 percent of
target.

57.     The mid-term review (conducted in February 2011) concluded, among others, that
without substantial support of all stakeholders involved it would be hard to achieve the EDFF
objectives on a timely basis because of World Bank and GOI process requirements, which were
beyond the capacity of the SIEs. Sustainability of EDFF activities was assessed as risky and
options were advanced for increasing the chances for sustainability. Ultimately, project closing



                                               14
had to be extended by about 5 months, 24 which allowed for the completion of some critical
activities and investments, but still left project management on a very demanding schedule.

58.    Despite these many problems, the SIEs produced an impressive number of outputs, under
pressure mainly during the last 12 months of the project. The summary of QPF indicators
captures this conveniently, notwithstanding their technical problems (Section 2.3). In total, the
SIEs achieved 92 percent of their physical and 85 percent of their financial targets as set out in
sub-project proposals and budgets, and some specific successes are particularly notable (see the
concluding paragraph in Section 3.2).

59.     Limited Private Sector Involvement. A striking characteristic of project
implementation is the limited role of the private sector. The NGOs who ran the SIEs had a
strong preference for the cooperative empowerment model rather than direct engagement with
the broader private sector, which sometimes made it difficult, for example, to move upward in
the value chain (see AAA, ADF, CCA and IRW in Annex 11).

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

60.     The Results Monitoring Framework provided for evaluation at two levels, namely, at the
higher, PDO level and the intermediate, ‘Results Area’ level. In principle, both are highly
quantitative and the latter includes a large number (21) of performance indicators.

61.     PDO-level Indicators. As designed in the PAD, there were 3 outcome indicators at the
PDO level,25 but one quickly proved less relevant owing to a lack of sub-project proposals in this
area. The PMC did continue to report against this PDO-level indicator as it considered
appropriate. In its final report, it noted, a conference and public-private forum (see Annex 10,
Results Area #1, column 4); improved market linkages, basically for cocoa; and improved
availability of certain equipment and inputs (see Annex 6 to the Aceh EDFF Final Report).
Making good use of the flexibility built into project design, it was rolled into the intermediate
level indicators for the relevant ‘Results Area’ (i.e., Improving the Business Environment). In
the circumstances, this was sensible.

62.     All Outcome Indicators at this level shared an important characteristic, namely, that the
PAD did not include quantified baseline values or final completion targets for measuring the
impact of the project (see Annex 3 for further considerations in this regard). That function was
explicitly delegated to the PMC and SIEs (p. 52 and 54 in the PAD). In the event, one extensive
baseline study was done (for cocoa production; see Annex 2) and other sources were used to set
quantitative targets for the individual sub-projects, in line with PAD suggestions (p. 54). This
was a reasonable approach, because there was little analytical basis on which to define an overall
target at design. Still, it is awkward to judge project outcomes without a well-defined overall
target.


24
   In January 2012, an extension was approved for 4 months for the sub-projects and 5 months for the PMC. In
August 2012, 5 sub-projects were extended for 1 more month. By end-November, all activities/investments in the
eight sub-projects had been finalized and handed over to the beneficiaries.
25
   See Footnote 3.


                                                      15
63.    Performance against the two remaining PDO-level indicators is reported in the Aceh
EDFF Final Report, together with a great deal of underlying details (summarized in Annex 10).
That source reports the equivalent of 4,400 fulltime jobs created and a total of 17,178 users
supported by the infrastructure financed by the project. These are large numbers for a mid-sized
and short project. They are equivalent to almost 1/4 of 1 percent of total employment in Aceh in
2011 and more than one-third of 1 percent of total population in 2010, respectively. See Section
3.3 and Annex 3 for further discussion.

64.     Intermediate-level Indicators. On intermediate-level indicators, the overall performance
is positive, bearing in mind that the indicators are predominantly output-oriented, not outcome-
oriented (Section 1.3). In particular, the great majority of these indicators were exceeded.
Looking more closely at performance by ‘Results Area’ (for details, see Annex 11):

     1. ‘Improving the Business Environment’: Successful performance in this area, against a
        relatively ‘soft’ outcome indicator and two output indicators.

     2. ‘Private Sector Support’: Exceeded performance criteria for 9 of 10 indicators, almost
        all of which are output-related. Some particularly impressive productivity increases are
        reported for some commodities (e.g., cocoa and coffee).26 Some others are particularly
        disappointing (e.g., the success rate for artificial insemination of cattle and fingerling
        production).

     3. ‘Public Infrastructure’: Mixed result. Exceeded performance criteria for infrastructure
        built and used, but sustainability below target.

     4. ‘Success Rate of Sub-projects’: Ambiguous result. All SIEs improved capacity in EDFF’s
        financial management, procurement and safeguards, 27 but only 5 SIEs were rated
        ‘Satisfactory’ or above, versus a results-related target of 6 (see Section 2.3). Indicators of
        capacity development suggest success with SIEs, but government is less clear; Bappeda
        Aceh exceeded the performance criteria, but KPDT was well below target. Indeed the
        Aceh EDFF Final Report (p. 85) downplays the governments as beneficiaries and the
        government’s draft evaluation report makes no mention of the government as a
        beneficiary.

65.    Other Relevant Results. EDFF’s best performer, Swisscontact, warrants special
commentary. It was engaged in cocoa production and marketing (Annex 11) and it accounted for
about 17 percent of project budget, but more than 40% of the project’s achievements. These
included training one out of three cocoa farmers in all of Aceh and reshaping GoA’s agricultural



26
    The performance criterion was ‘% increase in the value of smallholder production’ (italics added), but
productivity increases are reported. Productivity is the more relevant measure.
27
    Note that some of the SIEs already had good systems in place, and improved capacity in EDFF’s financial
processes is no assurance that their general capacity has increased further. Improved capacity in EDFF’s processes
is really only useful for NGOs that may want to work on another World Bank project. Most are more likely to
benefit from improved capacity with GoI systems, not EDFF’s.


                                                        16
strategies and engagement with the private sector (e.g., Nestle, Kraft and Archer Daniel
Midlands). Also, Swisscontact has entered into a MoU with KPDT and a number of other
private sector partners and donors, to expand its cocoa program to 5 other provinces, increasing
its outreach to 60,000 cocoa farmers. Wider engagement with the private sector (including with
foreign companies like Nestle, Kraft and ADM) is especially important in this context, because
GoA’s development objectives include increased foreign and private investment in Aceh
(Section 1.2).

66.    Among the other sub-projects, CCR (engaged in cultivation and processing of nilam;
Annex 2) reported major increases in land tillage and yields (Annex 11). However, overall
outcomes were frustrated by falling commodity prices (a factor outside the SIE’s control), which
reduced plantings. In the case of IOM (Annex 11), its matching grants to SMEs (for construction,
transportation and equipment) attracted some Rp4 billion (US$400,000) in new private
investment into Aceh’s coffee sector.

3.3 Efficiency

67.      PAD Criterion Met. As detailed in Annex 3, the requisite gains in GDP (necessary to
justify the Bank’s minimum, 10-12 percent, economic rate of return) were comfortably exceeded,
despite the delay as discussed earlier. Also, growth in the targeted sector, agriculture, exceeded
the target by a small margin. By sub-sector, growth was robust where the project was operating,
namely in food crops, non-food crops, and to a lesser extent, fisheries.

68.     Analytical Cross-checks are Ambiguous. Cross-checks to substantiate causality and
attribution yield ambiguous results (Annex 3). For example, the number of new jobs (and
number of project beneficiaries) claimed by the PMC is surprisingly large. By contrast, the
project cost per new job (4,400 jobs for about US$47 million) is roughly US$10,750, which
seems expensive.

69.     Large Overheads. The project administrative and management costs of this project
were high, reflecting the complexity of project design and the weak institutional capacity. The
direct project overheads including transfers to the consultancy company, KPDT and Bappeda
were almost exactly 10 percent of the project budget. 28 In addition, the SIEs charged
administrative overhead rates, which ranged from 2-10 percent, depending upon the SIE. 29
Taken together, these would run overhead costs up to about 15 percent of the project budget,
which is on the high side. However, this still excludes the Bank’s large implementation support
costs which, in this case, were covered by MDF.

70.     As for the 2-10 percent charged by the SIEs, this is a surprisingly wide range; 2 percent
would be a bargain, whereas 10 percent would be on the high side. By way of comparison, the
current recognized norm among Bank staff seems to be 5 percent.




28
     The Aceh EDFF Final Report, p. viii.
29
     The Aceh AEDFF Final Report, p. 12.


                                               17
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Overall Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

71.     The rating of Moderately Unsatisfactory is based upon the discussion in previous sections,
especially: the overall relevance of the project PDO; the project design which had important
strengths, particularly in its flexibility; and the achievements of the PDO- and intermediate-level
outcome indicators. Also, the international NGOs brought implementation and project
management expertise to bear on the project. However there were also some important
weaknesses that limited results as follows:

       Weak risk mitigation measures at design;
       Overly complex institutional arrangements, especially among the counterparts and SIEs;
       Underestimation of the support SIEs would need in order to conform with WB systems
        of procurement and financial management;
       Underestimation of the process and administrative demands that would be placed upon
        Bank staff (including procurement and FM staff) during implementation;
       The short, 3 ½ year project lifetime, which was seriously compressed due to start-up and
        implementation delays;
       Design did not anticipate the implications of cooperatives playing a major role in the
        project; and,
       Unanticipated complications stemming from BPKP oversight occasioned by on-budget
        transfers.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

72.     Poverty Impact. This project was designed and implemented with a view to creating
jobs and reducing poverty in Aceh (PAD, p. i). In the project’s early stages, the beneficiaries of
the sub-projects SIEs were selected based upon poverty analysis, to include the most
marginalized communities.         In implementation, SIEs worked successfully with highly
marginalized communities, like women, widows and ex-combatants. In judging overall impact,
the project’s results indicators (Annex 10) are defined more narrowly than ‘poverty impact,’ but
virtually all of them imply success in poverty alleviation. Especially notable, considering the
size of the project, are estimated employment gains (of 4,400 jobs) and total project beneficiaries
(36,568 persons). See Annex 3 for more details.

73. Gender. One of the project’s strengths was the attention to developing gender-informed
activities in all of the sub-projects. Further, the monitoring system required gender
disaggregated monitoring indictors for all the sub-projects. This included gender breakdown of
project beneficiaries by District and by SIE, and training by institution. In aggregate, roughly
one-third of total project beneficiaries were women.




                                                18
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

74.    As noted in Sections 1.2 and 3.1, capacity building at the Aceh Bappeda (and to a lesser
extent KPDT) was an important focus of the PAD, despite no direct mention in the PDO or
Intermediate Objectives. Quantitative targets for institutional strengthening were added in due
course, although the complexities look to have been seriously underestimated and the Aceh
EDFF Final Report openly acknowledges that capacity building had second priority almost from
the outset. In the event, the quantitative target for Bappeda Aceh was exceeded, but the full
potential for capacity building among staff at that institution has not been realized; KPDT’s
target was missed by a significant margin (Annex 10, Results Area #4). As a further
consideration in this regard, several of the NGOs are now well-positioned for future projects
operating within the GoI and/or World Bank regulatory frameworks, owing to their experience as
SIEs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

75.     Unintended Positive Outcomes. The government’s draft ICR notes encouraging
behavioral changes among some coffee, cocoa and nilam farmers. Prior to the project, many
farmers did not maintain their trees properly, being skeptical of the need for pruning, grafting,
and other maintenance activities. As a result of the interventions, they are now convinced of the
resulting benefits; the trees are now well maintained, and the farmers appreciate group efforts. A
similar observation was made by one SIE, namely that local cattle farmers are starting to use
their waste land to grow grass for fodder of cattle. This increases land productivity; provides
alternative fodder during the dry season; and generates income.

76.    Unintended Negative Outcomes. The government notes that the beneficiaries for most
sub-projects were based upon poverty analysis, with a view to including the most marginalized
communities. In some cases, this led to resentment on the part of some who were not selected
and who did not benefit from the project.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
N.A.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Rating of Risk to Development Outcome: Significant

77.     It is likely that many of the outcomes of the project will not be sustained due to the short
project timeframe and the lack of follow-up support at the community level. Three SIEs have
lined up some follow-on support, but only one (Swisscontact) has obtained sufficient funding to
sustain the interventions and replicate the project to new districts and regions.30 Outcomes are at
particular risk in the following areas:


30
  KPDT has entered into a separate agreement with Swisscontact to develop smallholder-based economic
development projects in various other parts of Indonesia.


                                                     19
            Cooperatives. Documentation repeatedly notes that very few, if any, of the 60
             supported cooperatives were operating on a self-sustaining basis by the end of the
             project.31 As reported by the PMC, the cooperatives would require several additional
             years of support to be expected to operate on a sustainable basis.
            Infrastructure Maintenance. This is one of the few intermediate-level performance
             targets that were not met. Only 70% of the project’s infrastructure has plans for
             sustainability.
            Weak Areas in Results Area #2 (Private Sector Support). Sustainability of results
             in the Bireun livestock project is at risk, and the project requires more support from
             government and its NGO. In fisheries, the fish hatchery project is not yet capable of
             carrying on alone, but did secure more financing for a follow-on project. Even
             among successful commodities, like the coffee and cocoa projects, there are question
             marks, like the Warehouse Receipt System for coffee producers; at project-end, it was
             under-utilized and high-cost, and it required government financing to cover its
             management overheads. For the cocoa value chain project, intentions to improve
             downstream market linkages got bogged down in cooperative issues.
            Replicability. The EDFF experience shows that the NGO model of sub-project
             implementation has important strengths in transferring knowledge and bringing in
             effective methodologies for SME development in key sectors relevant to Aceh. The
             implementation arrangements would need to be substantially streamlined and
             simplified to be replicable in other disadvantaged areas.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Rating of Bank’s Performance at Entry: Moderately Unsatisfactory

78.     As discussed, there were several weaknesses in the PAD’s design and risk assessment,
and most of these should have been foreseen more clearly during design, especially in light of
the Bank’s experience in Aceh. The ambitious number and complexity of the envisaged sub-
projects made for a risky project even after risk mitigation measures. The impact was to slow
implementation, reduce the scope and extent of SIE activities and to limit outcomes. In
particular, much more time should have been allowed for implementation, or the PDO should
have been less ambitious in the number and range of activities to be covered by the SIEs. There
are also issues concerning the decision at design to delegate the setting of targets to the PMC and
SIEs. However, on balance the decision was reasonable because of the weak analytical basis for
any target-setting at that point. Please refer to paragraph 23 for more detail.



31
  The government, in its (draft) Evaluation Report, goes further. It asserts that very few of the 150 supported coops
and other groups (italics added) were ready by project-end to continue on their own. In its discussion of ways to
address the sustainability issues, all options entail further support in one form or another.


                                                         20
79.       There was no Quality of Entry rating for this project.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Rating of Bank’s Implementation Support: Moderately Satisfactory

80.      Positive Areas. The complexity and flexibility provided at entry required close project
supervision and oversight during implementation. The Bank responded proactively through
provision of intensive implementation support, particularly in the areas of financial management
and procurement. For example:

         Substantial off- and on-site support and capacity building provided to PMU/PMC,
          including for procurement, financial management, environmental and social safeguards.
          There had been a number of financial management and procurement support missions in
          addition to regular project supervision mission. These missions aimed to build capacity
          to address the weaknesses of the SIEs on fiduciary aspects. For example, the Bank team
          helped reviewed working capital activities under the revolving funds, and assisted the
          transfer of revolving funds to the cooperatives under the project.
         Bank oversight of procurement, financial management and audits appears to have
          performed well in emphasizing the importance of transparency and mitigation of fraud
          and corruption risks; and,
         Ultimately, the Bank successfully advocated for a project extension. The extension,
          combined with a major push near project end, allowed completion of the main project
          interventions.

81.     Negatives. There were other areas in which the Bank’s response could have been more
effective, namely:

         Bank decisions were not always consistent across SIEs or widely understood (on
          procurement, revolving funds, etc.), especially early in the project’s lifetime;
         Financial Management Assessments (FMAs) of the SIEs were not conducted early
          enough and thoroughly enough to be effective; and
         Bank procurement systems could have been more flexible in adapting to local conditions,
          e.g., allowing community contracting for non-typical goods.

82.     There is also a question as to whether the Bank missed an opportunity (Section 1.3) to
restructure the PDO and the intermediate indicators, essentially to scale-back expectations as
implementation difficulties began to set in. Strictly speaking, this is probably correct, at least as
far as the intermediate indicators are concerned. However the issue was fully discussed with the
relevant MDF Technical Working Group and the revisions reflected the consensus at that time.
Consequently, this ICR takes the view that this does not reflect poorly on the quality of the
Bank’s implementation support.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Rating of Bank’s Overall Performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory


                                                  21
83.   Based upon the factors discussed above, the Bank’s overall performance is rated as
Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Rating of Governments’ Overall Performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory

84.    Positive Factors. Governments at all levels displayed strong ownership and commitment
to achieving the project’s development objective. Both Bappeda and KPDT played key roles
during project implementation, and Bappenas intervened at certain times to resolve
implementation issues. Also, there was compliance with fiduciary covenants; adequate
beneficiary/stakeholder consultations; and effective engagement through the SIEs. In general,
governments were responsive to donor questions and in facilitating donor visits.

85.     Negative Factors. Readiness for implementation was highly questionable at the outset
of the project. There were long delays due to unavailability of funding (the DIPA process); a
lengthy process was needed to provide a legal basis for international NGOs to implement SIEs;
there was limited institutional capacity to implement fiduciary requirements; there was heavy
reliance on consultants; and key staff for the Secretariat and PMU was not appointed on a timely
basis.

86.     During implementation, governments stood ready to help resolve issues, but actual
resolution was sometimes slow, aggravated by ineffective coordination among between
implementing agencies. The DIPA process delayed implementation and slow resolution of
issues strained relations between Bappeda/PMU and the SIEs. This lasted throughout the project.

87.    At project end, the governments’ transition arrangements to support sustainability of the
investments remained uncertain.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Rating of KPDT’s, BAPPPEDA Aceh’s and SIEs Overall Performance: Moderately
Unsatisfactory

88.     Many of the comments immediately above apply directly to KPDT and Bappeda (because
they were the main counterpart agencies) and those comments will not be repeated here. This
section only adds some institution-specific commentary.

89.     KPDT was highly committed to the project development objective and was proactive in
monitoring and resolving implementation issues within its mandate. KPDT also took the lead in
coordinating with Bappeda/PMU. However, some tasks assigned to KPDT had to be reallocated
to the PMU because KPDT lacked the necessary capacity.




                                              22
90.     Bappeda’s commitment to the development objective was initially strong and it remains
so for the Government of Aceh. Also, Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) were always provided
on a timely basis and in good condition. However burdensome administrative requirements
overwhelmed the PMU’s capacity and resulted in implementation delays at the sub-project level.

91.     Regarding capacity development at these institutions, KPDT’s quantitative target was
missed by a significant margin (see Annex 10). By contrast Bappeda’s target was exceeded
(Annex 10), but the full potential for capacity building among Bappeda Aceh staff has not been
realized.

92.     Performance was marked by highly uneven results across the SIEs (Annex 11). In
general, the NGOs brought good international practices, especially methodologies for SME
development and a focus on governance. Also, some SIEs already had strong internal
management systems and adapted well to the demands of the project; others could not. The only
indicator defined in the PAD was in this area and, viewed from a results perspective, it was not
achieved (5 SIEs rated ‘Satisfactory’ or above, versus a target of 6; Sections 2.3 and 3.2).

93.     The SIEs were highly motivated to launch their activities and, by design, they actively
engaged with project stakeholders. However, their administrative capacity (i.e., especially
procurement and financial management) was often inadequate. This caused significant delays.
Also, some project components turned out to be too ambitious for project duration. In
implementation, problem resolution often suffered from burdensome oversight requirements that
distracted the SIEs from core activities. This lasted throughout the project and diluted results.

94.    By project-end, some SIEs had secured financing to continue operating, at least for a year
or so. This is a helpful step, but highlights the issue of sustainability

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Rating of Overall Borrower Performance: Moderately Unsatisfactory

95.    Based upon the discussion in the two previous sub-sections, the overall borrower
performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

96.    There are a large number of lessons learned from this project. They are especially
applicable for any effort to replicate this project in Indonesia.

97.    Post-disaster and/or Post-conflict Operations. These are a valuable type of operation
and highly likely to recur. The EDFF experience indicates that planning for these activities
should start at a relatively early stage, as an integral part of reconstruction activities.

98.     GoI-NGO Collaboration. This project demonstrated that GoI collaboration with non-
state actors is viable strategy, but it needs a more effective implementation model. In particular




                                               23
it requires careful screening and selection of the NGOs; a long-term perspective; a willingness to
allow the NGOs to apply their own approaches; and strong coordination with government.

99.      More Time Needed or More Limited Objectives. The project’s compressed
implementation period limited the project’s scope, activities, outputs and outcomes. A project
lifetime of 5-7 years looks more appropriate than the 3 1/2 years provided for in the PAD. The
risk of lengthy delays is considered high sustainability at risk for overly ambitious projects. This
is particularly the case when working with counterparts and implementing entities that are likely
to require considerable capacity development.

100. Complexity. In a complex setting with such weak institutional capacity, implementation
arrangements should be simpler than EDFF’s. It would have been more effective to work with
3-4 larger projects, rather than 8 smaller ones, because most are going to need intensive support.
Effectively, a small pilot project would be desirable, to learn from the experience and scale-up
with a follow-on operation, if appropriate.

101. Replication. While the project procedures and implementation arrangements were too
complex in their totality, EDFF offered a number of features that could be replicable for the
government. Foremost, the model of the local government working through NGOs was
groundbreaking in Aceh and demonstrated to have a high potential to bring in new and
innovative methodologies and approaches for supporting SMEs through livelihood projects. In
addition, the project also generated some good practices at the farm level to be replicated. Most
notable is how to disseminate technical skills that increase productivity, quality and quantity of
key crops. In particular, Farmer Field Schools (FFSs) focused on training all farmers in cocoa
rehabilitation, supported by provision of training, materials and equipment. This approach of
directly training all farmer beneficiaries was found to be superior to training-of-trainers, who did
not always pass on the techniques that they had learned.

102. Procurement. The procurement capacity constraints of NGOs require particular
attention, including steps for mitigating governance risks in procurement. These should be
implemented before effectiveness of the project. During implementation, the performance of the
PMC should be closely monitored so as to ensure that the designed assistance is provided. Also,
procurement arrangements (particularly for non-typical goods) should be carefully proposed in
the procurement plan so as to be suitable for the local conditions.

103. Dual Oversight Systems. Operating a project ‘on-budget and on-treasury’ looks likely
to entail financial oversight from GoI/BPKP. Some binding, up-front agreement is needed–
among all parties–on (relatively simple) operative financial management guidelines and on the
means for resolving unexpected differences of view. This is particularly important in the context
for the Bank’s commitment to working within local government systems.

104. The Model Approach. EDFF’s most successful approach combined the following
ingredients: intensive capacity building for a large cross-section of farmers and SMEs; low-key
investment support to enable the farmers and SMEs to conform to market requirements; and
excellent networking with larger buyers to provide strong, market-driven financial incentives for
the farmers and SMEs.



                                                24
105. Sub-Project Selection. This is likely to be a difficult, complicated process, but it can be
made easier by:

      Commencing capacity building as soon as possible in the agency responsible for sub-
       project selection. This needs to happen prior to undertaking the selection process,
       possibly even before project effectiveness;
      Allowing more time for wider dissemination of project information (i.e., ‘socialization’)
       prior to the call for project proposals;
      Sufficient narrow, technical skills in the selection committee to cover the envisaged range
       of proposals;
      Local experts on the selection committee;
      A wide range of selection criteria, including for example, financial management capacity
       and expertise in procurement; and
      On-site visits and interviews to confirm applicants’ qualifications, especially those who
       have not worked with GoI and/or WB previously.




                                               25
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies

N.A.

(b) Cofinanciers/Donors

N.A.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N.A.




                                           26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                     Actual/Latest
                                          Appraisal Estimate                                   Percentage of
             Components                                              Estimate (USD
                                            (USD million)                                       Appraisal
                                                                        million)
Component 1–Financing of Sub-                                             37.26
                                                   44.50                                             89%
Projects                                                                    2.76*
Component 2–Support for the
Supervision of the EDFF, Planning,
Design, Selection of Sub-Projects,                   5.50                     4.45                  80.9%
Supervision and Implementation
Oversight
               Total Baseline Cost                 50.00                     44.47                  88.9%
Physical Contingencies                              0.00                      0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies                                 0.00                      0.00                   0.00
                Total Project Costs                50.00                     44.47                  88.9%
         Total Financing Required                  50.00                     44.47                  88.9%
*This amount is an unaccounted for residual in MDF transfers, and appeared to be held in the Special Account at
project closure, awaiting finalization of transfers and reimbursements to SIEs after Nov. 27, 2012. See the text
discussion on p. 9 of the Aceh EDFF Final Report.



(b) Financing
                                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of                                    Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                      Estimate      Estimate
                                               Cofinancing                                   Appraisal
                                                                (USD million) (USD million)
GoI                                                                     2.85         1.16**    40.7%
MDF                                                                    50.00        44.47      88.9%




                                                        27
     Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component/sub-component      Main Outputs/ Outcomes

Component I: Financing of Sub-projects
Actionaid Australia with    #1: Increased Cocoa production
  Yayasan KEUMANG             -Baseline studies in 3 districts.
                              -Established demonstration project.
                              -Training for 30 govt. extension workers & 4,500 farmers.
                              -Provision of seedlings, fertilizer, tools & traps.
                            #2: Coops established/strengthened
                              -Established 7 new primary coops and 1 secondary coop.
                              -Training for 108 coop members; study tour for 9 coop officials.
                              -Training for 20 warehouse staff assistants in processing cocoa.
                            #3: Improve Market Linkages Along the Value Chain and Promote Aceh Cacao
                               -Some training for govt. and SIE staff.

Aceh Development Fund        #1: Ice block factory
with
  Annisa, BIMA &              -Coop established; factory operational & rented out.
UNSYIAH
                              #2: Iodized salt factory
                               -2 coops established; factory operational.
                              #3: Fish processing factory
                               -3 factories operational in traditional drying methods with greater efficiency &
                             hygiene.
                              #4: Liquid smoke factory
                               - Construction almost complete at project-end.

                             #1: Capacity building for cooperatives & SMEs
Canadian Cooperative           -Training for marine fishermen & coops; provided working capital, offices &
 Association with PASKA      trucks.
                               -Training in freshwater aquaculture for coops & fish farmers; provided loans &
                             nursery.
                               -Training for coops & farmers in rice intensification; provided demo plots,
                             storage facilities & working capital.
                               -Training & provision of machinery for emping production & marketing.
                             #2: Develop central market facility for KOPEMAS
                               -Established marketing facility, including building, equipment & recruitment of
                             personnel.

Caritas Czech Republic       #1: Improved agricultural & processing technology for nilam (an aromatic herb)
                              -Farmer Field Schools formed; provided training to 1,929 farmers (66% of target).
                              -51 demo plots established across 4 districts.
                              -34 new distillation kettles installed and some 1,250 beneficiaries trained.
                             #2: Strengthened Cooperatives
                               -Training for 355 cooperative members and 34 board members.
                               -Facilitated an MoU with Bank BRI and distribution of revolving fund to coops.
                             #3: Improved marketing linkages
                              -Facilitated relationships with buyers, including by workshops, buyer visits &


                                                      28
                             expos.

International Organisation   #1: Capacity building for farmers & coops
for Migration                  -50 ag extension workers trained in organization, good ag practices and
                             management.
                               -Community nurseries established in 50 locations & key input materials provided.
                               -1,821 coffee farmers trained in land preparation, coffee production, pest &
                             disease management, post-harvest management, quality testing and marketing.
                               -10 coops received equipment & training in admin, finance, coffee production,
                             cooperative management, quality testing and Fair Trade standards.
                               -Warehouse Receipt System set-up for credit to farmers.
                               -Build & strengthen the Arabica Coffee Network.
                             #2: Capacity building for coffee businesses
                              - 78 SMEs received matching grants for storage facilities, equipment &
                             machinery.
                              - Over 200 SMEs and cooperatives trained in business plan development,
                             accounting, business ethics and environmental issues.
                             #3: Strengthened links with buyers & exporters
                              -Research nursery established with the Gajah Putih University.
                              -Established an online Arabica trading platform.

Islamic Relief Worldwide     #1: Introducing grouper marine culture
with Aceh Ocean Coral         -Rehabilitated the govt. grouper hatchery.
                             #2: Improved gear for fishermen
                              -Provided 970 fishermen with improved nets, fishing gear and boat repairs.
                             #3: Improved Infrastructure
                              -Built a jetty and 116 fish cages; rehabilitated 2 ice factories; and strengthened 2
                             cooperatives.
                             #4: Improved Market Access
                               -Training & equipment for 59 women to improve use of leftover catch.
                               -Disseminated info and organized meetings with local govt. officials, related
                             agencies & private sector.

Muslim Aid Indonesia         #1: Capacity building of farmers & govt. officials
                               -Training for 1,968 persons in livestock production and health management,
                             fodder production and management, cattle reproduction, market access, group
                             management and revolving funds, composting and biogas production.
                             #2: Introduction of new technologies
                               -279 artificial inseminations of cattle along with supply of medicine and
                             concentrate (50% of target).
                               -Biogas production facilities installed and ready to operate.
                             #3: Provision of new barns & equipment
                              -36 cattle barns constructed; 21 drilling wells constructed; 15 ring wells
                             completed.
                              -1,080 bulls and 360 heifers delivered (100% of target).
                              -98.8 hectares of grazing area established.
                              -36 composting units were established.

Swisscontact                 #1: Cocoa forum & master plans
                              -Facilitated establishment of the Aceh Cocoa Forum to promote transparent and


                                                       29
                        fair cocoa trade in Aceh.
                          -Completed 5 District Cocoa Master Plans (DCMP); being used by District govts.
                        #2: Cocoa field work
                          -5 District Cocoa Clinics completed. These comprise nurseries; a cleaning center;
                        composting; some clonal gardens, a side grafting demo plot; and post?harvest
                        equipment.
                          -Training of Trainers for 403 farmers and government extension workers in
                        cultivation, seedling growing, garden maintenance, side grafting, top grafting,
                        sanitation, composting, etc.
                          -Rehabilitation of 1,212,935 cocoa trees in 1,516 hectares (76% of target).
                          -112 smallholder cocoa enterprises organized and supported (187% of target);
                        trained in farm organization and management; marketing; and composting and
                        seedling business. Also supported with 112 nurseries, compost choppers, and
                        other equipment.
                        #3: Market access & finance
                          - One day events to provide for discussion on marketing and access to
                        finance/credit with banks, SMEs and SCEs as well as GOI representatives. 141
                        people participated, comprising cocoa farmers, traders, govt. reps & Bank staff.
Component II: Project
Management and TA for
Bappeda and KPDT

Finance Unit            #1: Guidelines for financial management, internal and external audits and
                           reporting
                        #2: Training of SIE financial staff
                        #3: Visits to SIEs to assess and assist staff and procedures
                        #4: Review and processing of requests for budget revisions
                        #5: Review and processing of advance requests
                        #6: Monitoring, review, (re-)verification and processing of monthly reports
                        #7: Other activities as deemed necessary including follow up of BPKP findings,
                           World Bank visits, External Audit reports, etc.

Procurement Unit        #1: One-day training workshop on procurement, attended by all procurement
                           officers from 8 SIEs
                        #2: Assistance and guidance on procurement to all SIEs until WB NOL obtained
                        #3: Assistance and guidance to all SIEs on bidding documents and Bid Evaluation
                           Reports on Shopping for NCB packages

Environment Unit        #1: Ensure that SIE activities have no negative environmental impacts
                        #2: Ensure that land uses are in line with the Land Acquisition Protocol of the
                           EDFF Project
                        #3: Ensure that the EDFF Project shall not cause negative impacts to the lives and
                           livelihood of vulnerable groups or communities
                        #4: Ensure implementation of SIE activities in line with the World Bank Anti-
                           Corruption Standards
M&E Unit                #1: Design, implementation & maintenance of a system for analysis of progress,
                        performance and outcomes at sub-project and project levels
                        #2: Field verification of progress reported by the SIEs in all 17 districts
                        #3: PMU Technical Monitoring & Evaluation Manual
                        #4: Operation of Management Info System and Geographical Information System


                                                 30
Training & Communication   #1: Capacity building by the PMC for the PMU and GoA
                            -12 workshops on, among others, procurement, financial management safeguards
                           and project management.
                           #2: Capacity building by the PMC for the SIEs
                            -Three workshops on M&E, procurement and credit & tax issues.
                           #3: Ensuring due attention to gender issues and visibility of EDFF




                                                  31
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

1.     This Annex revisits the PAD’s Economic and Financial Analysis (Annex 10 of the PAD)
with the objective of assessing the higher-level outcomes of EDFF against the PAD’s pre-
determined standard of economic returns.

2.      The PAD convincingly argued that it was not possible to do standard cost-benefit
analysis for EDFF, because the sub-projects and their activities were unidentified at that stage.
Instead, in quantitative terms, it looked at the increase in Aceh’s economy that would be required
to achieve the minimum Economic Rate of Return (ERR) that the World Bank requires in its
investment projects, i.e. 10-12%. In qualitative terms, the PAD also noted that analysis would
focus on the soundness of the approach undertaken, to support the strategies of the provincial
authorities to promote sustainable economic growth in the province and to improve the capacity
of Bappeda and other relevant entities to select, implement and monitor sub-projects that support
economic development in Aceh.

3.      Regarding the quantitative analysis of incremental growth necessary to achieve the
Bank’s 10-12% threshold, the PAD concluded that an increase in GDP growth of .03% during
the project period and a sustained boost of .01% per year thereafter, through 2020 would be
sufficient. This implies average GDP growth of 3.27% from 2009-2012. On a sectoral basis, the
PAD postulated that maintaining agricultural growth at 5%, would raise overall GDP growth to
3.6%, well above the rate necessary for the project to be economically viable.

Table 3. GDP Growth in Aceh, with Selected Components
                         (2000 prices, in %)
                                                                              Avg.
                                                                              2010-
                             2006    2007     2008    2009     2010   2011    11
 Total GDP                   1.6    -2.4     -5.2    -5.5     2.8     5.0     3.9
 o/w: Agriculture            1.5    3.6      0.8     2.6      5.0     5.5     5.3
  o/w: Farm Food Crops       1.1    4.7      -2.9    3.7      7.9     6.9     7.4
       Farm Non-food                                                          3.8
 Crops                       0.3    2.6      4.1     3.6      3.1     4.6
       Fisheries             2.7    4.5      2.5     2.9      3.8     3.5     3.7


4.      During the first official year of the project, 2009, Aceh’s economy continued to contract,
by 5.5%. But as described in the main text, virtually nothing was accomplished on the ground by
the project during that year. Consequently, analysis here focuses on the period 2010-11, which is
an exceedingly short period from which to draw conclusions.

5.      Average GDP growth during the short, 2010-11 period was 3.9%, well above the required
GDP growth rate of 3.27%, foreseen as necessary by the PAD. Likewise, growth in the
agricultural sector was 5.3%, a little above the 5% mentioned in the PAD as necessary for
economic viability. Looking at sub-sectoral activity, good growth ensued in the project’s three


                                               32
main sub-sectors, namely Food Crops, Non-Food Crops and possibly Fisheries (see the
accompanying Table).

6.     There is, of course, a major issue of attribution here, because achieving growth of 3.9%
can hardly be attributed solely to EDFF. Further crosschecks are necessary, to ensure that EDFF
has made a worthwhile contribution to this stronger growth.

7.     Three simple crosschecks on efficiency are considered here. The first is the estimate of
4,400 jobs created by EDFF. This is equivalent to almost 1/4 of 1% of total employment in Aceh
in 2011,32 which is surprisingly large for an expected gain in GDP of roughly 1/10th of 1% over
the project lifetime. It implies an employment elasticity of about 2.5 relative to the postulated,
minimum change in GDP.

8.     The second crosscheck is the estimated number of total EDFF beneficiaries, namely
36,568 persons. This is equivalent to more than ¾ of 1% of total population in Aceh in 2010.
Again, this is surprisingly high, but in line with the estimate of ‘jobs created,’ considering the
‘beneficiaries’ is a much broader concept than ‘new jobs.’

9.   As for the third cross-check on efficiency, the project cost per job is roughly estimated at
USD10,700,33 which looks very expensive, especially considering sustainability issues.

10.     Turning to the qualitative issues mentioned in the PAD, the record is mixed. On the
positive side, capacity building at Bappeda has been successful in project selection and in
managing projects like EDFF. However even if BAPEDDA can manage a project like EDFF, it
is unclear whether these new skills are easily transferred to GoI projects and systems, and there
is scant evidence of a shift towards a more results-oriented management style. Also, the
commitment of KPDT and, to a lesser extent, Bappeda to capacity building was often
questionable during EDFF. For example, permanently allocated resources were normally
insufficient and only few officials participated in training sessions and monitoring visits.
Likewise, the uptake of tools introduced by EDFF (like the Management Information System and
impact monitoring) has been limited. In this context, it is notable that the government’s
evaluation report makes no mention of benefits from the TA provided.




32
     Source: Table 3.2.4 of ‘Statistik Indonesia 2012,’ the Indonesian National Bureau of Statistics.
33
     That is, US$52.85 million less US$5.5 million (which went unspent) divided by 4,400.


                                                           33
Annex 4. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                             Title            Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Said Fauzan Baabud        Operations Officer                  EASFP Team member
John Victor Bottini       Consultant                         MNSUR Team member
                                                             EASSO -
Gillian M. Brown           Senior Gender Specialist                  Team member
                                                               HIS
                           Lead Private Sector Development
William Peter Mako                                           MNSF1 Team member
                           Specialist
                                                                   Team member –
Sylvia Njotomihardjo       Program Assistant                 EACIF
                                                                   Logistics support
                                                                   Task Team Leader
Thomas A. Rose             Advisor                           FFSFP
                                                                   (up to Dec. 2008)
                                                                   Procurement
Imad Saleh                 Lead Procurement Specialist       EASR1
                                                                   review
                                                                   Environmental
Andrew Daniel Sembel       Environmental Specialist          EASIS
                                                                   review
                           Sr. Financial Management
Unggul Suprayitno                                            EASFM FM review
                           Specialist
Supervision/ICR
Alexandra L. Drees-Gross   Senior Financial Specialist       FFSAB Task Team Leader
Said Fauzan Baabud         Operations Officer                EASFP Team member
                                                                   Task Team Leader
Enrique Blanco Armas       Senior Economist                  AFTP1
                                                                   (up to Oct 2010)
Zhentu Liu                 Senior Procurement Specialist     EASR2 Procurement review
Enggar Prasetyaningsih     Procurement Analyst               EASR1 Procurement review
Sri Hanizar                Consultant                        EASR1 Procurement review
Christina I. Donna         Financial Management Specialist   EASFM FM review
I Gusti Ngurah Wijaya
                           Financial Management Analyst      EASFM FM review
Kusuma
Vicki Diane Peterson       Consultant                         EASFP   Team member
Dhonke Ridhong Kafi        Consultant                        EASIS    Team member
Mr. Purwanto               Anti-corruption                   EACIF    Team member
Virza S. Sasmitawidjaja    Consultant                        EASIS    Environmental
                                                                      review
Fahmi Wibawa               Consultant                        EASFP    Team member
Lloyd R. Kenward           Consultant                        EASIS    ICR main author
Nancy Chen                 Sr. Financial Specialist          EASFP    ICR
Thang-Long Ton             Economist                         EASPR    ICR


                                              34
Jiyoung Song                  Operations Analyst                 EASFP ICR
                                                                       ICR Logistics
Michael Z. Figueroa           Information Assistant              EASFP
                                                                       support

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                       Staff Time and Cost
     Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                 travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                         23                           40.30
  FY09                                         53                          222.98
                          Total:               76                          263.28
Supervision/ICR
  FY10                                         66                          222.78
  FY11                                        105                          410.11
  FY12                                         55                          212.95
  FY13                                         18                          169.03
                          Total:              244                        1,014.87




                                              35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N.A.




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N.A.




                                       37
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.      As part of Aceh Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Blueprint, The EDFF main objective
was to promote post-tsunami economic recovery and foster sustainable equitable long-term Aceh
economic development. The Aceh economy was driven by the oil and gas fields in the East
Coast, now in decline and with very little linkages to the rest of the economy. As tsunami
reconstruction winds down, the construction boom linked to the reconstruction effort was
coming to an end and with it the high growth rates experienced by certain sectors of the economy
(e.g. construction, trade and transport) during the reconstruction period. This natural economic
slowdown compounded by the negative impact of the global ?nancial crisis, together with the
fact that Aceh’s economy has not entirely recovered from the negative impact of the 30-year
conﬂict. The reconstruction agency, the national and provincial authorities and many donors
recognized the need to focus on putting Aceh’s economy on a more sustained and longer-term
growth path with an effort to create more jobs.

2.      The EDFF Project was designed to help in overcoming these constraints and to contribute
to increased productivity and quality of produce in the key economic sectors, as well as to foster
an improvement of all aspects of the value chain. This was done through the provision of
financial support, economic infrastructure development and capacity building support to
farmers/fishermen and their organizations as well as to other crucial players in the value chain of
the targeted commodities.

3.      The EDFF comprised two main components. Component one supported sub-projects that
address critical issues affecting economic development in Aceh by contributing to building a
more competitive and supportive business environment necessary to create broad based private
sector job opportunities and growth in Aceh, targeting the poor and other vulnerable groups.
Component Two was allocated for funding project management and capacity building for
Government of Aceh (Project Management Unit) and the KPDT.

4.      According to Grant Agreement between The World Bank and Government of Indonesia
Project was designed for 36 month for implementation. However, effective implementation
period reduced to 20 month because project preparation took more than expected in the project
design. Since EDFF implementation mechanism was unique, Preparing SOP, sub project
selection, revising proposal and Preparation sub-project implementation documents were time
consuming.

5.      The overall financial achievement in respect of the 50 million US$ EDFF Project budget
is 44.46 million, which includes the consultant costs and incremental project cost, resulting in
approximately US$ 5.5 million unspent. US $ 37.26 was transferred to Sub Project and US$ 4.45
was provided to the consultancy company. Most sub project managed to complete their activities
and to reach between 77% and 100% of their targets. Overall, the Sub Project achieved around
92% of their physical and 85% of their financial targets as per approved sub-project proposal and
budget.

6.     With respect to the key result areas the following Intermediate outcomes were achieved:




                                                38
Improving the business environment
    the cocoa sector development plans guide the cocoa development planning in 5 districts;
    the forums and traders associations are currently operational and performing as expected;
    the revolving funds are currently being used and repayment rates are generally
      satisfactory;
    matching grants provided proved to be very effective and attracted additional investment
      from the private sector of approximately IDR 4 billion

Private sector support/employment generated

      increased productivity due to adopted Best Agricultural Practices;
      higher prices because of improved quality for all commodities and value addition through
       improved processing;
      improved marketing through established linkages between cooperatives/farmer groups
       and markets.

Infrastructure development

7.      Nearly all (93%) of the 586 constructed units are currently being utilized. The users are
Project beneficiaries. Field monitoring findings indicate that the availability of the infrastructure
has assisted people in carrying out economic activities and becoming more efficient in their
businesses. It has also created additional labor to operate the various structures. The entire
infrastructure that has been built belongs to the community through the established institutions
supervised by the government. However, there are also some infrastructure works that have not
been utilized yet. Because most construction works have been completed relatively recently, it is
too early to assess the real effects and sustainability of these infrastructures.

Effective management of the Project

8.      Because the kind of the project was first experience for government, ToR of consultant
service was changed along the project implementation time line as needed. As a result of
intensive coaching for sub projects, performance in financial management, procurement and
safeguards improved in line with AEDFF procedures.

9.     To some extend the rigidity government and World Bank administration regulations were
detrimental the objective oriented management that is considered of crucial importance for the
success of a unique project like EDFF. Also the uptake of tools developed, such as the
Management Information System and methods for systematic performance and impact
monitoring has been slow. Most Sub Implementing Entities has little knowledge and experience
applying of the Government of Indonesia (GoI) and the World Bank regulations and procedures.
As a result, this consumed a lot of time and resources for couching in order to comply with SOP.

10.    In addition, the selected NGOs should have adequate expertise and management capacity
to implement the livelihood project activities. Clearly, it was found out that NGOs which had



                                                 39
expertise and management capacity adequately were more successful in implementing and
achieving project goals than those which did not have.

Achievement of Project Development Objective (PDO)

11.     The Project contributed in various ways to the economic recovery and sustainable
equitable long-term economic development in Aceh. Statistics shows that starting from year
2010 to 2012 Aceh economic is back to experience positive growth after 3 years contracted. In
2010 to 2012 with oil and gas Aceh economic growth reached to 2.36, 5.02 and 6.02 percent
respectively. The economic growth coupled with poverty alleviation reduced poverty to 18
percent in 2012.

12.     The support to primary producers has resulted in increased productivity and improved
quality of Aceh’s main commodities. Farmers receive higher commodity prices and the
collectors and wholesalers are also benefiting from higher quality products and more consistent
supply from farmers. Some big traders are now aware of the higher quality of products from
farmers.

13.    The Project has contributed to employment creation through the establishment of new
formal jobs, as well as through the introduction of more labor intensive agricultural production
methods.

14.     Through improved linkages to the market and value chain support for related small
enterprises & businesses, more efficient marketing and higher prices through value–added
processing for certain commodities can be observed. Some private sector investment is taking
place, for example in the cocoa sector and for ice production. International export is still limited
but for some commodities indications for increased regional trade to other parts of Indonesia can
be found. Due to short project implementation and delays in the start up the overall effects on the
economy are maybe still limited, but the foundations for economic development have been
clearly laid.

15.     The main concern is with the sustainability of the AEDFF investments that are handed
over to the end beneficiaries, especially (pre-) cooperatives. It is very clear that due to the
mentioned time constraints, the SIEs were unable to build sufficient capacity to guarantee this
sustainability. Government support to continue the development in these key commodity sectors
is mandatory to increase the chance for sustainability.

Lessons learnt

16.     Administrative burden such as finance and procurement management is the major
constraint for achieving project goals. It was also observed that World Bank sometimes went too
much into detail. The result has been that contracted parties were unable to finish their sub-
projects timely, affecting the quantity, and at times the quality of planned activities.
Procurement has been an enormous challenge. A major design flaw was the omission of
community contracting and other flexible procurement mechanisms. This particularly affected
the procurement of large quantities of life material for agricultural livelihood activities, such as



                                                40
seedlings and breeding stock, as well as simple constructions, such as stables and floating fish
cages. The large number of packages and variety of procurement methods, ranging from
shopping to international tenders, proved extremely challenging for many SIEs, which delayed
the implementation process as procurement took much longer than originally planned. Therefore
when it comes to agricultural livelihood activities, there should be some flexibility in the
procurement process for purchasing those kinds of materials.

17.     In the early stages of the project implementation it was assumed that the guidelines for
financial management had been clear and complete. But yet it was found out that during the audit
by Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan (BPKP) there were several aspects that were not clear and could
be interpreted in different ways by SIEs and BPKP. Many of the findings of BPKP went against
this principle, but there was no clear coordination mechanism in place to resolve the differences
and hold all government institutions to the original agreement. As a result many of the BPKP
findings could not be resolved and several SIEs have to pay back considerable amounts of
money. So it is hugely important to have clear and complete most needed regulations at the start
of the project implementation.

18.     A large number of institutions were involved in the monitoring and auditing of the sub-
projects, however, without much communication, coordination and consistency in methodology
and conclusions. This was not only disturbing for the SIEs and beneficiaries but it also put a lot
of pressure on the PMU and Satker to provide the required information and data in various
formats.

19.     The AEDFF Project is a unique innovative concept/model that needs time for trial and
error to be successful. However, given the ambitious set of objectives, the time available simply
was insufficient, even with the 5 months extension. This clearly affected impact & sustainability.




                                               41
Annex 8. Comments of MDF Secretariat (Cofinanciers) and Other
Partners/Stakeholders


1.     These comments were prepared by the Secretariat of the Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and
Nias (MDF) and do not necessarily represent the views of the MDF Steering Committee or
donors. The MDF provided a grant of US$ 50 million for the Aceh Economic Development
Financing Facility (EDFF), one of the MDF’s 23 projects for post-disaster recovery in Aceh and
Nias.

2.      The Multi Donor Fund for Aceh and Nias (MDF) was established to support the
implementation of the Government of Indonesia’s (GOI’s) rehabilitation and reconstruction
program after the December 2004 tsunami and subsequent March 2005 earthquake. At the
request of the government, the World Bank serves as the trustee to administer the MDF which is
in turn governed by a Steering Committee comprised of donors, GOI, and civil society
representatives, with the United Nations and international non-governmental organizations
participating as observers. The donors contributing to the MDF are: the European Union, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the World Bank, Sweden, Canada, Denmark, Norway,
Germany, the Asian Development Bank, the United States of America, Belgium, Finland, New
Zealand and Ireland. The MDF pools about US$655 million in grant resources provided by these
15 donors, an amount equivalent to about 10% of the overall reconstruction efforts. The MDF
provided grants for implementation of 23 projects in five outcome areas: recovery of
communities, recovery of large infrastructure and transport, strengthening governance and
capacity building, supporting sustainable management of the environment, economic
development and livelihoods, and providing support to enhance the overall reconstruction
process. The Aceh EDFF project was the major vehicle in Aceh for achieving the MDF’s
outcome area of supporting economic development and livelihoods.

3.      The EDFF was a key element in the MDF’s third phase of activities, supporting a
transition to economic development. Disasters often cause interruptions in development, and in
many cases can reverse or set back economic growth. In addition to the devastation brought
about by the tsunami and its direct impact on livelihoods, in Aceh the post-disaster
reconstruction challenges were compounded by nearly 30 years of armed conflict that had stifled
economic growth and interrupted development. Despite Aceh’s rich natural resources, the
economy was under-performing and poverty rates were higher than the national average.
Growth in key commodities had lagged as farmers had been afraid to go to their fields and both
government and the private sector had been unable to provide extension and outreach. The post-
tsunami recovery provided an opportunity not only to rebuild homes and infrastructure, but to
help put Aceh back on its feet economically, which was deemed vital to preserving the fragile
peace that was made several months after the tsunami. The MDF Steering Committee made
supporting Aceh’s economic recovery a full priority of the reconstruction and provided its full
support to the EDFF project. The $50 million allocated to the EDFF made it the fourth largest
project in the MDF’s portfolio.

4.     Immediately after the disaster Aceh experienced a reconstruction boom as people and
resources poured in to rebuild. The phased approach to reconstruction adopted by the



                                              42
Government of Indonesia and the MDF took this reconstruction boom into account. The EDFF
was designed to rejuvenate Aceh’s traditional key economic sectors and to help facilitate a return
to work in these sectors once the jobs created by the construction boom had wound down.

5.       The innovative project design of EDFF was intended to both strengthen key economic
sectors and to build local capacity to support economic growth. As a result, the EDFF project
had a high degree of local government control and ownership, more than perhaps any other MDF
project. EDFF introduced an innovative project implementation modality through which
international and local NGOs executed programs in conjunction with the local government
through an on-budget mechanism. The NGOs added value by bringing their expertise in
implementing successful livelihood programs to this partnership. At the national government
level, the Ministry for Disadvantaged Areas as the main implementing agency worked closely
with the provincial government planning agency, Bappeda, to support sub-project implementing
entities (SIEs), the NGOs, to ensure that all program activities were aligned with local
government program priorities in all selected districts. This design is in keeping with the spirit of
the Jakarta Commitment, an agreement that donors and development partners’ programs should
be in line with government priorities and use country systems, wherever possible. The project
also provided technical assistance and support to the provincial Bappeda, from program planning
and design to monitoring and supervision. The Project Management Unit (PMU) was managed
by provincial Bappeda team and supported by a professional management consultant. These new
institutional arrangements took time to put in place and required joint stakeholder efforts at times
to resolve issues and unblock bottlenecks, but they also built partnerships between government
and NGOs and institutional capacity that will be of long-term benefit to the government of Aceh
in planning for future economic development. Moreover, EDFF offered huge lessons and most
importantly direct and real experiences for provincial government managing the Bank program
implemented by various NGOs.

6.      However, significant delays in project start up and implementation due to issues in setting
the innovative institutional arrangements in place meant that the sub-project implementing
entities were left with a much shorter time to implement their projects than had originally been
planned. The MDF’s closing date was non-negotiable as donors had clearly outlined the time
limits in their agreements and further extension of the project was simply not possible. The
MDF Steering Committee adjusted the implementation period to the maximum amount of time
possible, to November 2012, in order to give SIE’s as much time as possible to reach their
targets. Under these circumstances, the NGOs, for the most part, performed exceptionally well.
Despite the truncated implementation time, most of the projects were able to meet their
objectives, and complete activities by the closing date.

7.      The results achieved by the project within this timeframe are impressive in terms of
strengthened organizations such as cooperatives and farmers groups, new technical skills taught
and connecting producers to markets, increased production and incomes in a variety of
agricultural sectors including coffee, cocoa, livestock, fisheries, rice, and food processing. There
are significant risks for the sustainability of some of these results since the sub-projects often did
not have time to support capacity building to the extent originally intended, but nevertheless
outcomes from the projects’ efforts are generally good. Aceh’s cocoa and coffee sectors, in
particular, are much stronger now as a result of the EDFF’s efforts, and are on strong footing for



                                                 43
continued development. In other sectors cases of local successes are evident and a range of good
practices have been developed and disseminated among farmers and other small producers that
will have lasting impact beyond the project.

8.      The results across sub-projects varied with the capacity of the NGOs selected, and with
their partnership arrangements. Lessons learned from this experience is that many very capable,
accountable and experienced NGOs, both local and international, may not have the financial
management and procurement capacity to meet the government and World Bank requirements in
these areas. Thus future project designs would need to take this into account and not expect that
NGOs can immediately begin implementing projects to these standards. Strong partnerships and
clearly defined roles, especially between local and international NGO partners, are also
important factors for success in this approach. Despite prior agreements, government financial
requirements often took precedence over World Bank requirements, resulting in financial
exposure for the implementing NGOs.

9.     Due to many of these challenges resulting from the EDFF’s innovative institutional
arrangements, the project was at times rated as a problem project by the World Bank and ratings
on both Bank and borrower performance have not been satisfactory. In terms of results achieved,
however, especially given the short implementation timeframe, the MDF Secretariat and donors
have considered the project to be a success. This was in large part due to the Bank’s strong
supervision of the project, made possible through additional supervision resources which were
provided for all MDF projects given the implementation challenges they faced.

10.     The motto of the overall Aceh and Nias recovery effort was “build back better.? Post-
disaster situations provide a window for doing things differently that can often lead to positive
outcomes. While there are lessons to be learned from some of the challenges the EDFF project
faced and how it addressed them in terms of project design, from the perspective of the MDF
Secretariat, avoiding innovation in post-disaster context should not be one of these lessons.
Innovations are often critically important in complex situations where standard approaches don’t
work; the lesson perhaps is that multiple innovations need to be managed carefully so that the
challenges in totality do not overwhelm the system.

11.      Nevertheless, sustainability remains a risk for the EDFF, especially in terms of local
governments’ capacity to continue providing support to Nias’ farmers beyond the project’s end.
One of the lessons learned by the MDF has been that capacity building takes time and is often in
conflict with the need for urgency in a post-disaster context. However, given the long
preparation time and truncated period available for implementation before the end of the MDF’s
mandate, the EDFF completed its activities and met its objectives, making an important
contribution in helping Aceh transition from the post-disaster and post-conflict context to a path
of longer-term sustainable development. The role of the Bank’s implementation support was
critical to success, as was the focus and attention of the national executing agency, the Ministry
for Disadvantaged Areas, for the project.




                                               44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project supervision Aides Memoir

2. Mid-Term Review report

3. Sub-project Proposals

4. Aceh EDFF Final Report

5. PMU/PMC Draft Evaluation Report

6. Sub-project Grant Agreements




                                        45
Annex 10: Analysis of EDFF Results

     Project Development Objective (PDO): To promote post-tsunami economic recovery and foster sustainable, equitable long-term
     development in Aceh in line with GoI’s own plans for economic development.
     PDO-Level Outcome Indicators                              Target      Estimated Results                 Comments34
                        Number of business constraints successfully
     Indicator #1                  alleviated in Aceh
                                                                             Unspecified                  Not available

                       Employment generated in enterprises supported
     Indicator #2                                                                               1,172,954 man-days per year or
                                     by the project.                         Unspecified
                                                                                                  roughly 4,400 full-time jobs
                      Number of users of public infrastructure financed
     Indicator #3
                                      by the project.                        Unspecified                  17,178 users
     Intermediate Level Indicators/Results Areas
     Results Area
     #1               Improving the Business Environment
     Indicator i)     Number of sector development plans developed in
                                                                                             Cocoa sector development plans
                      consultation with the private sector and adopted 5                                                                   Soft Indicator; post-PAD
                                                                                             completed & used in 5 districts
                      by local governments
                      Number of public-private sector forums                                                                               Output; post-PAD
     Indicator ii)                                                     4                     4 Forums plus 1 conference
                      established or strengthened
     Indicator iii)   Number of recipients & value of micro-credits.   Unspecified           109 institutions and Rp8.1 trillion           Output; post-PAD
     Results Area
     #2               Private Sector Support
                      Average % increase in value of smallholder                              Major productivity increases reported
     Indicator i)
                      production of project beneficiaries.                  10               by commodity in Annex 23 of the Aceh          Post-PAD
                                                                                             EDFF Final Report
     Indicator ii)    Employment created in supported enterprises           Unspecified      1,172,954 man-days/year                       Output
     Indicator iii)   Enterprises supported.                                350              381                                           Output
     Indicator iv)    Farmers & fishermen supported                         25,000           36,568 beneficiaries                          Output
     Indicator v)     Primary producers linked to markets                   12,500           24,132 producers                              Output; post-PAD




34
 The PAD (p.47) explicitly notes the likely need to revisit the Results Framework (RF) once sub-projects had been selected. The RF was updated in 2011 in consultation with the
MDF Technical Working Group.

                                                                                       46
Annex 10: Analysis of EDFF Results

 Project Development Objective (PDO): To promote post-tsunami economic recovery and foster sustainable, equitable long-term
 development in Aceh in line with GoI’s own plans for economic development.
 PDO-Level Outcome Indicators                              Target      Estimated Results                 Comments34
                 Number of producers trained in improved
 Indicator vi)
                 technology or marketing                                25,000         36,568 beneficiaries                   Training Output; post-PAD
 Indicator       Number of SMEs trained in improved processing
 vii)            or marketing                                           110            380 SMEs, coops and groups             Training Output; post-PAD
 Indicator       Number of producer groups established or
 viii)           strengthened                                           430            799 groups                             Output; post-PAD
                 Number of cooperatives established or
 Indicator ix)
                 strengthened                                           65             60                                     Output; post-PAD
                 Number of household members indirectly
 Indicator x)
                 benefiting from project                                100,000        109,007 members                        Output; post-PAD
 Results
 Area #3         Public Infrastructure
                                                                                                                              Includes: cocoa clinics; rice and
                                                                                                                              emping (a rice product)
                                                                                                                              processing facilities; ice plant;
                                                                                                                              drying units; cattle barns; wells;
 Indicator i)    Infrastructure built                                   250            586
                                                                                                                              compost & biogas units;
                                                                                                                              warehouse rehabilitation; coffee
                                                                                                                              research center, fish hatchery;
                                                                                                                              and a jetty.
                 Infrastructure built being used by intended
 Indicator ii)
                 beneficiaries.                                         80%             93%
 Indicator
 iii)            Infrastructure built having plans for sustainability   80%             70%                                   Post-PAD
 Results
                 Success rate of sub-projects financed by the project
 Area #4
 Indicator i)    % of SIEs with demonstrated improved capacity in
                 financial management, procurement and
                 safeguards.                                            80%            100%                                   Post-PAD
                                                                                       62.5% (5): 1 Highly Satisfactory       PDO-level Indicator (KPI) in text
 Indicator ii)                                                                                    2 Satisfactory
                 Sub-projects successfully completed                    75% (6)                                               of PAD
                                                                                                  2 Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                                  2 Moderately
                                                                                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                                                                  1 Unsatisfactory

                                                                                  47
Annex 10: Analysis of EDFF Results

 Project Development Objective (PDO): To promote post-tsunami economic recovery and foster sustainable, equitable long-term
 development in Aceh in line with GoI’s own plans for economic development.
 PDO-Level Outcome Indicators                              Target      Estimated Results                 Comments34

 Indicator iii)   No. of SIE staff on project implementation full-time    Unspecified   787              Output; post-PAD
 Indicator iv)    No. of KPDT staff on project implementation full-time   5             3 part time      Output
                  No. of Bappeda Aceh staff on project implementation
 Indicator v)                                                             5             7 permanent      Output
                  full-time




                                                                                   48
 Annex 11: Summary Performance of SIEs, by SIE
(SIEs in alphabetical order)
                                            Results-
Name of SIE                  Main Activity  oriented Funds              Main Achievements                       Main Problems
                                            Rating
                            Cocoa production &                          Quality & quantity of cocoa             Conflict between partners; 6-9 months
Actionaid Australia (AAA)                          MU 1/   Rp64.6b
                            marketing                                   production increased                    lost.
                                                                        10 cooperatives
w/ local partner:                                          (USD7.0m)                                            Cocoa factory cancelled.
                                                                        established/strengthened
                                                                                                                Value-added chain activities scaled back,
Yayasan KEUMANG                                                         Training & inputs for farmers
                                                                                                                consolidated with other SIE or cancelled.
                                                                                                                Recovery in coops near project-end, but
                                                                                                                too late.
                                                                                                                Delays due to procurement issues.
Aceh Development Fund       Fish, salt & related                                                                Procurement problems; slow approval of
                                                   MU 1/   Rp41.5b      Ice Block factory & coop operating
(ADF)                       industries                                                                          NoL.
                                                                        Salt factory coops established;         Printing & packaging unit for salt & fish
                                                           (USD4.5m)
                                                                        factories to start-up in 12/2012        cancelled.
w/ local partners:
                                                                        Improved efficiency & hygiene of        Fish processing scaled back due to time
Annisa,BIMA &
                                                                        traditional fish drying methods         constrains & viability concerns.
UNSYIAH
                                                                        Coops established for ice block, salt
                                                                                                                Limited success with coops.
                                                                        & fish operations
                                                                                                                Very limited outputs in marketing &
                                                                        Liquid smoke factory almost
                                                                                                                export strengthening due slow salt & fish
                                                                        complete at project end
                                                                                                                progress.
                                                                        Freshwater fisheries productivity up;   Long procurement process; limited local
Canadian Cooperative        Fish, rice & emping (a
                                                   MS 2/   Rp54.8b      costs down; more local sourcing.        human resources. Burdensome
Association (CCA)           rice product)
                                                                        Two coops profitable                    monitoring & oversight.
                                                                                                                Limited technical skills, including for
                                                                        Rice productivity up & costs down
w/ local partner: PASKA                                    (USD6.0m)                                            value-chain analysis; too many
                                                                        in demo plots
                                                                                                                commodities.
                                                                        Emping production & revenues
                                                                        way up                                  Coops not sustainable at project end.
                                                                                                                Started-up in Apr 2011, but very slow
                                                                        Training & development of central       progress. Not sustainable at end of
                                                                        market facility for KOPEMAS             project.




                                                                       49
 Annex 11: Summary Performance of SIEs, by SIE
(SIEs in alphabetical order)
                                            Results-
Name of SIE                  Main Activity  oriented Funds           Main Achievements                       Main Problems
                                            Rating
Caritas Czech Republic       Nilam (an herb)                         Land tillage increased 80%; yields      Commodity prices down, so reduced
                                                   S    Rp43.7b
(CCR)                        cultivation,                            up 60%                                  plantings.
                             processing &                            Product quality up & qualified for      Reduced plantings & lack of kettles
no local partner                                        (USD4.7m)
                             marketing                               GI certification                        meant a major production shortfall.
                                                                     Training coops in business skills &     Procurement delays impacted all aspects
                                                                     leadership                              of project.
                                                                                                             BPKP’s audit finds contradictory &
                                                                     Marketing & buyer workshops
                                                                                                             unclear.
                                                                     TA for farmers increased product
                                                                     quality.                                Burdensome procurement, environmental
International Organisation
                             Coffee cultivation,   MS   Rp34.0b      Nursery produces seedlings of better    and social safeguards, monitoring and
for Migration (IOM)
                                                                     quality than govt.-supplied             reporting systems.
                                                                     seedlings.
                             production &                            Training of coops & certification
no local partner                                        (USD3.7m)                                            Slow decision-making processes.
                             marketing                               with Fair Trade US.
                                                                     Warehouse Receipt System
                                                                                                             Warehouse Receipt System underutilized
                                                                     operating; provides financing to
                                                                                                             & does not cover its operating costs.
                                                                     farmers.
                                                                     Attempts to establish auction           Coffee businesses skeptical of auction
                                                                     market.                                 market.
                                                                     TA & matching grants to SMEs,
                                                                     which attracted new private
                                                                     investment.
Islamic Relief Worldwide
(IRW)                        Marine fisheries      HU   Rp46.9b      Grouper hatchery established            Very low fingerling survival rate.
                                                                                                             Fish cages plagued with problems.
                                                                                                             Similar platform project cancelled, and
w/ local partner:                                       (USD5.1)     Floating fish cages operating.          simpler devices substituted.
                                                                     TA & equipment for good fisheries
Aceh Ocean Coral                                                     practices                               Efforts to strengthen coops unsuccessful.
                                                                                                             Original plans for fish processing scaled
                                                                     Boat jetty built; ice factories rehab   back; some ice upgradings incomplete at
                                                                     & upgraded.                             project end.
                                                                                                             Conflicts between IRW & AOC. Neither
                                                                                                             had requisite technical skills.

                                                                    50
 Annex 11: Summary Performance of SIEs, by SIE
(SIEs in alphabetical order)
                                            Results-
Name of SIE                  Main Activity  oriented Funds                                    Main Achievements                      Main Problems
                                            Rating
                                                                                                                                     Simple project, focusing on ex-
                                    Livestock (cattle)                                                                               combatants.
Muslim Aid Indonesia                production &                                              Provision of livestock, materials &    Delays due to procurement & quality of
(MIA)                               marketing                  S            Rp33.2b           equipment                              livestock.
                                                                                                                                     Very low success in artificial
                                                                                               Introduction of new technologies,     insemination & bulls being sold at low
                                                                            (USD3.6m)         e.g., biogas                           prices.
                                                                                              TA to cattle farmers & govt. staff     Operations not sustainable at project end.
                                                                                              5 cocoa master plans completed &       Complex (transport, storage and timing)
                                                                                              used. Coffee forum operating w/        grafting arrangements may not be
Swisscontact                        Cocoa production &         HS           Rp65.4b           SMS price info                         sustainable.
 no local partner                    marketing                              (USD7.1m)         TA through District Cocoa Clinics
                                                                                              Farm rehabilitation yielded major
                                                                                              increases in productivity & quality.
                                                                                              TA in seedling & compost
                                                                                              production gives smallholders
                                                                                              additional income.
                                                                                              MoU with KPDT and other private
                                                                                              Sector Partners and Donors, to
                                                                                              expand its cocoa program to 5 other
                                                                                              provinces.
1/
     Rating raised to MS, if financial issues, admin. management and reporting are included as performance criteria.
2/
     Rating lowered to US, if financial issues, admin. management and reporting are included as performance criteria.




                                                                                           51
       Annex 12. Analysis of Critical Risks at Appraisal and Risk Outcomes

Risk                   Risk          Mitigation measure                      Outcome
                       Rating
                       (before/after
                       mitigation)
At Project Level
Late budget releases   H/M          Dialogue with the MOF                    Delays due to DIPAs &
cause delay                                                                  late release of funds were
                                                                             a continuing problem.
Inadequate capacity of S/M          TA consultants will provide the          Risk fully eventuated.
the implementing                    required capacity and will help the      TA consultants over-
agencies (Bappeda                   GoA to establish PMU staffed by          burdened.
and KPDT)                           experienced technical,
                                    administrative, procurement and
                                    financial management staff as well as
                                    KPDT at the central government
                                    level.
Fiduciary Risks        H/S          Involvement of key government            Ineffective mitigation
                                    counterparts in the design of the        measure. BPKP did buy
                                    project to increase ownership and        key provisions of the
                                    apply local knowledge to mitigation      Operations Manual.
                                    measures.                                On-budget mechanism
                                                                             was not a mitigation
                                    Operations Manual that sets clear        measure. It created
                                    rules understood by all stakeholders.    problems, because of
                                                                             requisite oversight from
                                    Use of on-budget mechanism,              BPKP.
                                    allowing the local government to use
                                    its own institutions to supervise the
                                    allocation and use of funds.

                                    Inclusion of an agreed upon anti-
                                    corruption plan throughout the live of
                                    the project.
At Sub-Project Level
Technical/design:       M/M         Most entities implementing sub-          Risk fully eventuated.
delays                              projects are likely to have already      Mitigation measure was
in sub-project                      gained experience in implementing        unrealistic.
implementation,                     subprojects in Aceh, which should
overly                              make their implementation plans
optimistic estimates of             more realistic.
outcomes,                                                                    Overly complex structure
underestimation of                  The team preparing the EDFF project      made the mitigation
time to implement                   is well aware of the need to monitor     measure ineffective.
                                    the projected outcomes and


                                               53
                               timelines, and will liaise with entities
                               implementing sub-projects
                               accordingly, managing also
                               expectations from the government
                               and donors’ sides.
Ability or willingness   H/S   Many entities have approached the          Risk fully eventuated,
of entities                    World Bank enquiring about EDFF            and severity of the
implementing                   financing, therefore the interest is       problem seriously
subprojects to                 high. PMU will have expertise to           underestimated.
implement according            assist entities to implement according
to World Bank                  to World Bank guidelines. Initial          High interest and
policies and                   discussions with some entities that        willingness to adopt WB
guidelines                     have different policies and guidelines     guidelines were
                               took place, indicating the willingness     ineffective as a
                               of these entities to adopt World Bank      mitigation measure.
                               guidelines for the purpose of
                               implementing activities financed
                               through EDFF
Weak procurement,        H/S   To ensure transparency in the              Procurement issues were
environment and                procurement process, enhanced              a serious problem.
collusive practices in         procurement procedures are included
past projects                  in the Anti-Corruption Action Plan.
                               Procurement training activities and a      Extent of required
                               capacity assessment will also be           training was seriously
                               conducted with consultant’s                underestimated.
                               assistance if needed.

                               Early on, PMU will rely on                 Very demanding of
                               international consultants’ expertise       consultants.
                               on procurement issues to assess the
                               procurement capacity of entities
                               implementing subprojects as well as
                               monitoring procurement processes.

                               The procurement ability of the sub-        Unrealistic mitigation
                               project proponent will be considered       measure.
                               as one of the sub-project selection
                               criteria.
Sub-project contracts    S/M   Most entities implementing sub-            Extent of problem
will not be executed           projects are likely to have entities       seriously underestimated.
to standards and costs         gained experience in implementing
as designed                    subprojects in Aceh. Many entities         Ineffective mitigation
                               have learned important lessons over        measure.
                               the last three years both in terms of
                               realistic planning (timelines, costs as
                               well as outputs) and how to improve


                                           54
                                            their ability to implement projects. In
                                            addition, improved bid documents
                                            and tight control by PMU are
                                            expected.
All sub-projects           S/N              Selection of sub-projects will be              Unrealistic mitigation
financed by EDFF                            undertaken early in implementation             measure.
will not be fully                           and will strive to identify projects
implemented by the                          with the greatest likelihood of
time the project closes                     completion within the timeframe.
in June 2012
Lack of sustainability     S/M              Selection evaluation will require sub-         Ineffective mitigation
of sub-projects                             projects to address sustainability of          measure.
financed by EDFF                            investments (e.g. through
                                            Commitment of local governments to
                                            provide funds for operations and
                                            maintenance as necessary or design
                                            exit strategy for the implementing
                                            party).
       Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)




                                                         55
                                                         95°E                                                                                            96°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RECONSTRUCTION OF ACEH LAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ADMINISTRATION SYSTEM PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NATIONAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KABUPATEN CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PROVINCIAL ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE CAPITAL
                  6°N                                                                                                                                                 6°N                                               RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KABUPATEN BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARY
                                                                      We                             Sabang

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          97°E                                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                             Breueh                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    St                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                        Banda Aceh                                                                                                                                                                                                       ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              it
                                                             Lhoknga                                                                               Sigli                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                Taupingraya                                                            Lhokseumawe                                        M
                                                                                               Seulimeum                                                                 Meureudu                        Bireun                                                                               al
                                                                                                              Jantho                                                                                                                                       Lhok Sukon                              ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ca
                                                                                                                                     Keumala
                                                                               Lamno
                  5°N                                                                                                                                                        Lutung                                                       Cot Girek                                                                                                        5°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Peureulak
                                                                                                                                                                            Geumpang

                                                                                     Calang
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Takengon                                                  Peunaron
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Langsa
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Ceulala                                                                                          Karang Baru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Uwak




                                                                                                                                                                                        Jeuram
                                                                                                                                                  Meulaboh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pangkalan-
                                                                                                                                                             Kutanibong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Blangkejeren                                                                 brandan
                  4°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lamie


                                                                                                                                                                                                           Blang Pidie


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Kutacane



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Tapaktuan



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kandang
                  3°N                                               Pulau-pulau
                                                                          Kokos
                                                                                                                           Lewak                                                                                                                                 Bakungan
                                                                                                                                                     Sibigo



                                                                                                      Simeulue
                                                                                                                                                 Nasreheu                                                                                                                                  Rundeng
                                                                                                                                                                      Inor                            Sinabang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    P. Balee
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lasikin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ti. Nibong       Singkil

                                                                                                                                                                                                       Lasia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tuangku
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Babi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bangkaru
                  2°N




                                                             INDIAN OCEAN


                                                     95°E                                                                                           96°E


                                                   MYANMAR                                                                                              Northern
                                                                                                                                                         Mariana
                        INDIA                                   THAILAND                                                                             Islands (U.S.)
                                                                                     VIETNAM                                                                                            MARSHALL
                                                                      CAMBODIA                                                                              Guam (U.S.)                  ISLANDS
                                                                                                         PHILIPPINES

                                SRI LANKA
                                                                                            BRUNEI

                     MALDIVES
                                            Area of                  MALAYSIA                                                            PALAU                                                                                                       Nias
                                               Map                                                                                                         FEDERATED STATES OF MICRONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1°N                                                                                                                                     1°N
             0˚                                                            SINGAPORE
                                                                                                                                                       PAPUA                                       NAURU
                                                                                 I      N      D     O   N     E       S     I       A               NEW GUINEA

                                                                                                                                                                                              SOLOMON
                                                                                                                                                                                               ISLANDS
                                                                                                                       TIMOR-LESTE

                                INDIAN OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        0   10    20    30     40   50 Kilometers
             15˚S                                                                                                                                                                        VANUATU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 35289
MARCH 2010




                                                                                                                                                                                      New Caledonia
                                                                                                                                                                                          (Fr.)                         0        10      20         30      40           50 Miles
                                                                                                                           A U S T R A L I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        97°E                                                                   98°E
                    75˚E                    90˚E                       105˚E                                                                                                                   165˚E
