                                        103182




                    Republic of Indonesia

Aceh Economic Development Financing Facility Project

                               REDACTED REPORT



                                          Official Use Only
                                                                           Official Use Only


                            Statement of Use and Limitations

This Report was prepared by the World Bank Group (the WBG) Integrity Vice Presidency
(INT). It provides the findings of an INT administrative inquiry (the Investigation) into
allegations of corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, and/or coercive practices, as defined by the
WBG for purposes of its own policies, rules and procedures (the WBG’s Framework
regarding Anti-corruption), in relation to the WBG-supported activities. The purpose of
the Investigation was to allow the WBG to determine if the WBG’s Framework regarding
Anti-corruption has been violated.

This Report is being shared to ensure that its recipients are aware of the results of the INT
Investigation. However, in view of the specific and limited purpose of the Investigation
underlying this Report, this Report should not be used as the sole basis for initiating any
administrative, criminal, or civil proceedings. Moreover, this Report should not be cited
or otherwise referred to in the course of any investigation, in any investigation reports, or
in any administrative, civil, or criminal proceedings.

This Report is provided without prejudice to the privileges and immunities conferred on
the institutions comprising the WBG and their officers and employees by their respective
constituent documents and any other applicable sources of law. The WBG reserves the
right to invoke its privileges and immunities, including at any time during the course of an
investigation or a subsequent judicial, administrative or other proceeding pursued in
connection with this matter. The WBG’s privileges and immunities cannot be waived
without the prior express written authorization of the WBG.




                                             1
                                                                          Official Use Only


                                  Executive Summary

This report provides the findings of an administrative inquiry by the World Bank Group
Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) into allegations that the director of a non-governmental
organization (Organization A’s Director), Organization A, may have engaged in
misconduct in connection with the procurement process under the World Bank-financed
Aceh Economic Development Financing Facility Project in Indonesia (the Project).

Under the Project, the Government of Aceh awarded a Sub-Project contract to Organization
A and another non-governmental organization, Organization B. Shortly thereafter, the
Government of Aceh and Organization B concluded a Sub-Grant Agreement (the Sub-
Grant Agreement), which contained the implementation details of the Sub-Project.

The Sub-Grant Agreement provided a specific procurement plan regarding rental cars
needed for the Sub-Project. Organization B’s General Manager was in charge of the
procurement process. Evidence indicates that Organization A’s Director repeatedly
requested that Organization B’s General Manager rent his personal car and Organization
A’s advisor’s car, in violation of the procurement requirements of the Sub-Grant
Agreement. Evidence further suggests that, on one occasion, Organization A’s Director
threatened Organization B’s General Manager in his attempt to have her rent his personal
car. Evidence also indicates that Organization A’s Director submitted a false car
registration for his personal car in order to give the appearance that his vehicle complied
with the requirements of the Sub-Grant Agreement.

Additionally, evidence suggests that Organization A’s Director submitted to Organization
B’s General Manager an inflated reimbursement request for leasing expenses under the
Sub-Project.

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Organization
A’s Director, which extends to any legal entity that Organization A’s Director directly or
indirectly controls.




                                            2
                                                                          Official Use Only

Background

The Aceh Economic Development Financing Facility Project in Indonesia (the Project)
aimed to promote post-tsunami economic recovery and foster sustainable long-term
economic development in Aceh in accordance with the Indonesian government’s recovery
and development plans.

Two non-governmental organizations, Organization A and Organization B, submitted a
proposal for a Sub-Project contract under the Project (the Sub-Project). Subsequently, the
Government of Aceh awarded the Sub-Project contract to Organization A and Organization
B. Thereafter, the Government of Aceh and Organization B concluded a Sub-Grant
Agreement (the Sub-Grant Agreement), which contained the implementation details of the
Sub-Project.

Allegations

The World Bank Group Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) received a report from
Organization B, alleging that Organization A’s Director engaged in misconduct in
connection with the procurement process under the Sub-Project. The report alleged that
Organization A’s Director repeatedly made improper requests to Organization B’s General
Manager, who had signatory authority for rental car contracts under the Sub-Project.
Specifically, the report stated that Organization A’s Director repeatedly requested
Organization B’s General Manager to rent his personal car and Organization A’s advisor’s
car for the Sub-Project even though those cars did not meet the requirements of the Sub-
Grant Agreement. The report also alleged that Organization A’s Director submitted an
inflated reimbursement request for leasing expenses under the Sub-Project.

Methodology

INT’s investigation consisted of, among other things, a detailed review of relevant Project
documents as well as documents and statements obtained from Organization A’s Director
and Organization B’s General Manager.

Findings

   1. Evidence indicates that Organization A’s Director repeatedly requested
      Organization B’s General Manager to rent his personal car and Organization
      A’s advisor’s car for the Sub-Project even though those cars did not meet the
      requirements of the Sub-Grant Agreement.

Organization B commenced the procurement process for renting cars needed for the Sub-
Project. The Sub-Grant Agreement between the Government of Aceh and Organization B
provided a specific procurement process and the types of cars to be procured.

Organization B’s General Manager informed INT that, during the procurement process,
Organization A’s Director asked her to rent his personal car and the car of Organization
A’s advisor for two rental contracts. Organization B’s General Manager told INT that this
request was rejected for two reasons. First, based on information provided to INT by

                                            3
                                                                           Official Use Only

Organization B’s General Manager, Organization A’s Director had not gone through the
procurement process as required by the Sub-Grant Agreement. Second, Organization A’s
Director’s car was not the type of the car required by the Sub-Grant Agreement.

Organization B’s General Manager further informed INT that, despite her refusal,
Organization A’s Director repeated his request that she authorize rental of his personal
vehicle for the Sub-Project in violation of the procurement process requirements.
Organization A’s Director also provided a false car registration for his car in an attempt to
fulfill the requirement of the Sub-Grant Agreement. During INT’s investigation,
Organization A’s Director did not deny or confirm the allegations regarding the car rental,
but insisted that the cars in question were used under the Sub-Project and, therefore, should
be paid for by the Sub-Project.

   2. Evidence indicates that Organization A’s Director threatened Organization
      B’s General Manager in his attempt to have her rent his car for the Sub-
      Project.

Organization B’s General Manager informed INT that Organization A’s Director once
visited Organization B’s office to attempt to get his car approved for a rental contract.
When his request was refused, Organization A’s Director responded by banging several
times on the desk with his fist, reaching over the desk, pointing his finger at Organization
B’s General Manager’s face, and angrily declaring that the car needed to be used for the
Sub-Project and Organization B’s General Manager had to be more careful.

INT found that Organization A’s Director’s behavior was objectively threatening,
considering Aceh’s post-conflict situation and Organization A’s Director’s reputation.
Specifically, a witness of the incident informed INT that it would be easy for someone to
hurt another in Aceh’s post-conflict situation. This individual also stated that Organization
A’s Director was an ex-combatant and had reputation for executing what he said. During
INT’s investigation, Organization A’s Director did not deny the incident, but asserted that
Organization B’s General Manager had exaggerated the interaction.

   3. Evidence indicates that Organization A’s Director submitted an inflated
      reimbursement request for leasing expenses under the Sub-Project.

Upon being awarded the Sub-Project, Organization A and Organization B entered into the
Sub-Project Agreement, which provided that Organization B would carry out the overall
administrative, financial, and procurement functions of the Sub-Project and Organization
A would manage the actual field implementation of the Sub-Project.

Organization A’s Director submitted to Organization B a reimbursement request for the
office lease expenses in the amount of Indonesian Rupiah (IDR) 120,000,000. With the
reimbursement request, Organization A’s Director submitted a purported lease agreement
between Organization A and the property owner, in the amount of IDR 120,000,000.

However, evidence indicates that Organization A’s Director signed two lease agreements
for the office for the same period of time. Specifically, evidence indicates that
Organization A’s Director signed a lease agreement in the amount of IDR 70,000,000 (the

                                             4
                                                                         Official Use Only

First Lease) and another lease agreement for the same office in the amount of IDR
120,000,000 (the Second Lease). Organization A’s Director submitted only the Second
Lease with the reimbursement request mentioned above. When INT asked Organization
A’s Director to provide an explanation of the First Lease, he claimed that the First Lease
was superseded by the Second Lease because, after signing the First Lease, the property
owner requested additional IDR 50,000,000 for certain repairs in the office.

Evidence indicates that Organization A’s Director improperly created the Second Lease to
acquire IDR 50,000,000 when the actual cost of lease was IDR 70,000,000, as agreed in
the First Lease. Organization B’s General Manager informed INT that Organization A’s
Director stated that the First Lease was the valid lease. Organization B’s General Manager
also heard from the property owner that Organization A’s Director had paid IDR
20,000,000 to the property owner in exchange for the signing of the Second Lease.

Follow Up Action by the World Bank

The World Bank imposed a sanction of debarment with conditional release on Organization
A’s Director, which extends to any legal entity that Organization A’s Director directly or
indirectly controls.




                                            5
