Document of
The World Bank                      o iE    1) p 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2711a-IND
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 28, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =    Rupiahs (Rp) 625
Rp 100           =    US$0.16
Rp 1 million    =    US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)              =     0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                    =     39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)               =     0.62 miles
1 square meter (sq m)          =     10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =       0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                 =     2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                -     2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)             =     2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AAETE   -   Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD    -   Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BIMAS   -   Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan, "Mass Guidance
for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input credit
program
DGFCA   -   Directorate Genera-L of Food Crops Agriculture
DGT     -   Directorate GeneraiL of Transmigration
MOA      -   Ministry of Agriculture (Departmen Pertanian)
NFCEP   -   National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND)
PPL     -   Penyuluh Pertanian Lapangan - field extension worker
PPM     -   Penyuluh Pertanian Madia - field extension supervisor
PPS     -   Penyuluh Pertanian Spesialis - extension subject matter
specialist
REC     -   Rural extension center
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1-March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1. BACKGROUND                      . . . ..... . . l
The Agricultural and Rural Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1
2.  SMALLHOLDER AGRICULTURE AND EXISTING SUPPORTING SERVICES                      7
Geographical Factors.                                                       7
Institutions Supporting Smallholder Agriculture  . . . . . . .              8
The Status of Agricultural Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . .             11
The National Food Crops Extension Project  . . . . . . . . . .             12
Project Formulation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             16
3.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             16
General Description.. .    16
Extension Methodology                ..17
Construction Program               ..19
Vehicles and Equipment               ..20
Extension Materials               ..21
Design and Construction               ..23
Cost Estimates                ..23
Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             24
Procurement                  ..25
Disbursements                 ..26
Accounts and Audits               ..26
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .26
National Level . . . . . .27
Field Level   ..29
Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             32
Consultants ......... .                                                    34
Recurrent Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             37
Environmental Effects  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             38
Role of Women  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             38
5.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             38
Production Targets and Extension Packages  . . . . . . . . . .             38
Benefit Estimation                ..39
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. J. Goldberg, W.P. Ting, K. Sengupta (Bank), D. Benor, and
C.W. Brookson (consultants), which visited Indonesia in March 1979.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN REPORT
3.1 Project Cost Summary
4.1 Technical Agricultural Consultancy Inputs
ANNEXES
1.  Table  1:  Estimates of Smallholder Agricultural Land Use, by
Province, 1977
Table  2:  Estimates of Livestock Population
2.  Table  1:  Project Cost Estimate
Table  2:  Summary of Construction Costs
Table  3:  Construction Program - Settled Areas
Table  4:  Construction Program - Transmigration Areas
Table  5:  New Project Headquarters Office - Quantity and
Cost Estimates
Table  6:  Vehicle List
Table  7:  Schedule of Vehicle Provision
Table  8:  Basic REC Equipment Package
Table  9:  Numbers and Cost of Specialized Extension
and Demonstration Packages for RECs
Table 10: Specialized Extension and Demonstration Packages for
RECs (detailed quantities and costs)
Table 11: Provincial and District Extension Office Packages
Table 12: Nonroutine Training Cost Estimates
Table 13: Costs of Consulting Services
Table 14: Extension Materials (quantities and costs)
3.  Table  1:  Schedule of Project Expenditures
Table  2:  Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Table  3:  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4.  Table  1:  PPL and PPM Staff Requirements - Settled Areas
Table  2:  PPS Requirements, Food Crops and Total
Table  3:  Proposed Incremental Nonfood Crop PPSs, by Province -
Settled Areas
Table  4:  Extension Staff Requirements for Transmigration Areas
Table  5:  Monthly Salaries and Allowances of Typical Extension
Personnel
Table  6:  Staff and Personnel Cost Projections
Table  7:  Total Estimated Recurrent Expenditures on Agricultural
Extension
5.  Table  1:  Main Constraints to Production and Potential for
Increasing the Yield of Major Commodities
Table  2:  Calculation of Indicative Economic Benefits



- iii -
Table 3: Indicative Economic Rate of Return
6. Selected Data and Documents in Project File
7. Agricultural Extension Organization Study - Terms of
Reference and Cost Table
CHARTS
-   Organization of Project Unit - Existing and Proposed (21340)
MAP
IBRD 14717 - Project Provinces and Kabupatens






INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank Group
assistance in financing the National Agricultural Extension II Project. The
proposed project would follow up the achievements to date of the National
Food Crops Extension Project (NFCEP, Loan 1267-IND), utilizing the basic
organizational structure and extension methodology established under that
project to:
(a)  complete the establishment of a basic food crops extension service
in 13 provinces not covered by the NFCEP;
(b)  establish an integrated extension service for transmigration
areas, including those schemes still in the establishment phase and
those currently under active preparation; and
(c)  incorporate extension activity for smallholder estate (commercial)
crops, animal husbandry and inland fish culture, and soil conser-
vation and reafforestation into the basic extension program and
delivery system heretofore utilized exclusively for food crops.
1.02      The objective of the proposed project would be to raise the
agricultural productivity of the maximum possible proportion of Indonesia's
nearly 16 million smallholder farming families, through the systematic
transmission of improved techniques, and to a lesser extent, improved plant
varieties and inputs, by means of expanded and well organized extension
services.
The Agricultural and Rural Sector
1.03      Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the
agricultural and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to
raise the incomes of the rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to
keep pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly
of smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.
1.04      Role and Performance.  Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of
agricultural production since 1968, the contribution of the agricultural
sector to GDP has declined from 40% to 30% over that period. Agriculture's
relative share in total exports has simultaneously declined from 45% to 33%,



- 2 -
a result mainly of the markedly increased importance of oil exports.
Nevertheless, the agricultural and rural sector remains of overwhelming
importance to the great majority of Indonesians in terms of employment,
income, and food production. Nearly 80% of the population lives in rural
areas, agriculture still employs between 60% and 66% of the total labor force
depending on the season, and about two thirds of rural households and one
tenth of urban households continue to rely on agriculture as their major
source of income. Except for oil palm and tea, agriculture is dominated by
smallholder production; there are about 15.6 million smallholder families
producing subsistence and cash crops on 15.8 million ha. There are also 1,800
estates occupying 2.2 million ha producing mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm
oil, and tobacco.
1.05      Employment.  The share of the total labor force employed in the
agricultural sector has apparently decreased over the past 15 years, although
precise estimation is difficult due to shifting survey definitions and
seasonal timing of surveys. From 69% in 1961, agriculture's share declined to
64% in September 1971, while in 1976 agricultural employment ranged between
66% of the total labor force in March and 60% in October./l  In spite of its
declining share, agriculture has remained by far the largest single source of
new employment, accounting for 46% of incremental employment during the period
1971-76. Outside Java, future employment prospects in agriculture appear
quite positive, given the employment generating effects of sustained increases
in smallholder areas, land and irrigation development and publicly sponsored
and spontaneous transmigration. In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems
was responsible for the generation of increased employment opportunities
during the last decade, and similar projects could provide additional
construction and farm employment.
1.06      Food Crops.  Given the limited manpower and financial resources
available, the Government's agricultural strategy over the past decade has
concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred staple food
of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly (4.5%
p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to an expanded program of irrigation
rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice producers of high-yielding
variety seed, fertilizer, and short-term production credit through the BIMAS
program (para 2.08). The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% over 1974-77, in
the wake of restrictions on private sector participation in the fertilizer
trade and subsequent severe declines in fertilizer usage, successive seasons
of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases,
principally the brown plant hopper and associated viruses. In 1978, a record
/1 In Java the seasonal share varied between 63% and 57% and outside Java
between 72% and 66%. The absolute variation in agricultural employment
between the two months was 6.7 million, while the variation in the labor
force was 6.1 million.



- 3 -
rice harvest was achieved, with better weather, improved and liberalized
fertilizer distribution, and a concerted effort by BIMAS officials and
extension workers to distribute recently introduced pest-resistant rice
varieties throughout the country. Over the same decade output of secondary
food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more
slowly, at a combined annual rate of 1.6% composed of a 1.1% average decline
in area (much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% increase in
yield.
1.07      These gains in food output did not keep pace with increases in
demand, stimulated by large increases in aggregate income. Over the decade
Indonesia became the largest rice importer in the world, with record imports
of 2.3 million tons in the poor harvest year of 1977, declining to about 1.3
million tons in 1978. Wheat imports rose to 1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava
exports nearly disappeared, and soybean, maize, and coconut oil imports also
increased. Thus the general food security prospect is not encouraging. A
recent Bank study /1 concluded that Indonesia would continue to face a basic
food deficit up to at least 1990, when the rice deficit alone could be between
2 million and 3 million tons, even assuming expanded Government programs in
the food crop sector (e.g., irrigation), improved technology, more efficient
credit and marketing systems, improved extension, and a consequent 3.5% annual
growth rate of food production.
1.08      To keep rice imports at some reasonable fraction of the world
rice trade, and to prevent a widening gap between aggregate domestic food
production and consumption, efforts must be intensified towards increasing
productivity and harvested area of both rice and secondary food crops in
Java and the Other Islands. In Java, major increases in rice cropping
intensity could be achieved through water storage projects, although
relocation of inhabitants of potential reservoir sites and conflicting
claims of other users may delay progress. However, there is still ample
scope for achieving higher yields, conserving water, and increasing cropping
intensity in existing rice areas through construction of tertiary irrigation
and drainage systems. In the Other Islands there is considerable potential
for new irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp land development. To
date the limited agricultural manpower and financial resources available
have been concentrated on rice; the Government can now begin to expand its
efforts towards stimulating increased production of secondary food crops in
both Java and the Other Islands. Despite the relative scarcity of
high-yielding tropical varieties of these crops, existing varieties are
cultivated at low levels of management (fertilizer and insecticide usage is
nonexistent and husbandry is poor) with resulting yields far below their
/1 Report No. 2374-IND, "Indonesia - Supply Prospects for Major
Food Crops," of March 3, 1979.



- 4 -
genetic potential. The Government is now formulating supporting services
programs for secondary food crops, while research investigations aimed at
varietal improvement are also getting under way.
1.09      Tree Crops.  Tree crop products have for decades been an important
source of export income for Indonesia, and still generate about two thirds
of total nonoil export revenues. Tree crops occupy more than a third of
total cropped land, with coconuts and rubber accounting for 80% of tree crop
stands. Smallholders operate 80% of the area under rubber, with the
remainder in Government and private estates. Coconuts, coffee, cloves and
pepper are almost entirely smallholder crops, while tea is chiefly, and oil
palm is entirely, cultivated on estates. Although Indonesia has profited
from recent world price trends for its tree crops, production of rubber and
coffee stagnated between 1969 and 1976, and only oil palm showed sustained
large increases in production due to large investment programs by Government
and private estates. With the long immaturity period of most tree crops,
static production levels are a symptom of past neglect, failure to replant
with higher-yielding varieties, and disinvestment. Deteriorating transport
infrastructure and shipping in the Other Islands since the 1950s, Government
actions inimical to private sector participation, and a lack of tree crop
research, extension, and particularly, replanting programs for smallholders
undoubtedly contributed to this long-term situation.
1.10      Efforts to revitalize the smallholder tree crop sector are com-
mencing on several fronts. One of the approaches has been to use Govern-
ment estates (nucleus estates) to plant tree crops on land to be settled
by local landless families and transmigrants. The estate companies provide
a range of services including planting material, land clearing and planting
inputs, and processing and marketing facilities for the smallholders.
Other new plantings of tree crops are being included in the cropping
plans for transmigration projects, to provide'assured cash incomes for the
settlers. But the largest, and most important task, the institutionaliza-
tion of a replanting and rehabilitation program for existing smallholder
stands, is still in an early stage of development. Given the existence of
backlogs of nearly 400,000 ha of both smallholder rubber and coconuts, which
are overaged and unproductive, the fact that 95% of smallholder rubber
consists of unselected clones and hence that yields are half those of
smallholder rubber in neighboring Malaysia, that market prospects for these
crops are quite good, and that various large regions in the Other Islands
have tremendous natural comparative advantages for these crops, the rapid
expansion of easily administered low-cost replanting programs for these
crops is of high priority from the viewpoint of medium-term national and
regional development.



- 5 -
1.11      Area Development and Transmigration.  In 1978 about 85 million
people, or 63% of Indonesia's population, lived in Java, at a density
approaching 650/sq km. The island, with 7% of Indonesia's land area, had 45%
of the cropped area. While Java is generally much more fertile than the Other
Islands, and benefits from better infrastructure, cultivable land is almost
fully utilized, and in some areas, particularly the higher watersheds of its
silt-laden rivers, agricultural land use already exceeds ecologically safe
limits and is contributing to increasingly severe problems of erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canal
systems. The Government is preparing a program of watershed development
projects to meet this problem. The primary vehicle for new land development
in the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese migrants, is likely to be the transmigration program.
1.12      An organized, orderly Government-sponsored transmigration program
is important from many aspects, including regional development and natural
resource development in the Other Islands, possible increases in food
supplies and export crop production, supplementary employment creation, and
provision of decent settlement opportunities to landless Javanese,
particularly those affected by recurrent natural disasters (e.g., volcanic
eruptions, landslides, floods) or development projects (e.g., watershed
management, reservoir and road construction). Unfortunately, this program has
long been hampered by unrealistic expectations of its potential contribution
to resolving Java's population problems and stimulating large-scale regional
development, by overly ambitious targets, and by poorly coordinated
implementation. Confronted by continued management problems the Government
undertook a massive reorganization of the management of the transmigration
program in preparation for Repelita III. These efforts culminated in the
issuance of a Presidential Decree which transfered responsibility for project
implementation to the line agencies normally responsible for each sector.
While the reorganized institutional arrangement is an important step, it will
need to be supported by continued attention to a variety of technical and
policy issues including: the suitability of land use for food crop
production; appropriate target incomes; farm size and village plans; the
extent of government support to settlers; the provision of adequate support
services and marketing mechanisms; and the potential role of spontaneous
migration in transmigration strategy. The second transmigration project (Loan
1707-IND and Credit 919-IND, approved on May 29, 1979), financed by the Bank
Group addresses these issues explicitly.
1.13      Bank Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between the Bank
and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies proposed for the
rural sector. While views sometimes differ on the relative emphasis to be
given to different investments and on the technical design of some projects,
such differences are not impeding Bank operations generally and can usually



- 6 -
be resolved by further analysis and dialogue. The Bank Group has devoted
considerable staff time to various analyses of the rural sector (e.g.,
employment and income distribution, irrigation development, agriculture
support services and food crop production) in order to improve its
understanding of the needs of the sector and the Government's policies.
1.14      Since the first of 13 irrigation projects was approved in 1968, the
Bank has rapidly expanded its agricultural and rural lending to include
support for estate and smallholder tree crops; fertilizer production and
distribution; sugar production and processing; agricultural research,
extension and training; transmigration; livestock; fisheries; and resource
survey and mapping. Within the context of the Government's overall
agricultural strategy, Bank Group lending within the next few years is
expected to focus on:
(a) a diversified irrigation, flood protection and drainage program
designed to intensify rice cropping on Java and to extend water
management to the Other Islands;
(b) diversification of production, e.g., through the second phase
projects for agricultural research, extension, seeds, and credit;
(c)  area development projects aimed at evolving a viable model of
watershed management to conserve soil and to ensure long-term
productivity in the densely populated areas of Java, developing
strategies for the integrated rural development of critical areas
on Java, and stimulating transmigration to the Other Islands; and
(d) smallholder tree crop replanting programs designed to complement
nucleus estate and smallholders projects.



2. SMALLIHOLDER AGRICULTURE AND EXISTING SUPPORTING SERVICES
Geographical Factors
2.01      Climate.  The climate of the Indonesian archipelago ranges from
wet tropical in Sumatera, Kalimantan (Borneo), Sulawesi (Celebes), and
Irian Jaya (western New Guinea) to progressively drier monsoonal conditions
moving east across Java and Nusa Tenggara (the Lesser Sundas). Total
annual rainfall varies from over 3,000 mm in most of the western portion of
the country and in Irian, to under 2,000 mm over most of eastern Java,
Bali, eastern Kalimantan, central and southeastern Sulawesi, and Nusa
Tenggara.  In the wet tropical zone no more than three months of the year
experience less than 60 mm of rainfall, while pronounced dry seasons of up
to six months duration are common in the dry monsoon regions. As
temperatures are uniformly high except in relatively small regions at high
altitudes, the amount and distribution of rainfall is the main climatic
factor determining smallholder cropping systems.
2.02      Soils and Topography.  The historical concentration of population
and agricultural production on Java and Bali (para. 1.11) largely reflects
their extensive areas of fertile volcanic soils, many of which are situated
in lowland floodplains conducive to the development of irrigation systems.
With reasonable inputs of fertilizer, these areas are capable of producing
high crop yields, and there are no serious soil constraints. The major
agricultural problems here, excessive exploitation of steep highlands for
production of annual crops and deforestation for firewood, are a direct
consequence of the high population densities of the lowlands. In the Other
Islands the soil situation is generally less favorable. Red-yellow pod-
zolic soils and organosols (swamp soils) are predominant, although in
certain regions there are appreciable areas of fertile volcanic and gley
soils. The swamp soils are in general very acid, poorly drained, and
rather low in nutrients, although some have proven suitable for agricul-
tural development with investment in water control infrastructure and
substantial inputs.  The podozlic soils are characterized by poor struc-
tural stability in addition to high acidity and low nutrient status and
cation exchange capacity. WJhile they are suitable for a rather wide range
of perennial and annual crops, careful attention must be given to soil
management and erosion control, and substantial amounts of fertilizer must
be applied on a regular basis to sustain satisfactory yields. Classifica-
tion of land in the Other Islands on the basis of slope indicates that only
about 21% is suitable for annual cropping. Hence both soils and topography
impose limitations on agricultural production.
2.03      Agricultural Land Use.  On a national basis, agricultural small-
holdings, averaging 1 ha in size, represent 8% of the total geographical
area.  Such aggregate data mask the extreme regional variations which are
a basic feature of Indonesian agriculture.  Inspection of data disaggrega-
ted to the provincial level (Annex 1, Table 1) indicates that there are
strong correlations between population density, the proportion of total
land area devoted to smallholder agriculture, average farm size (inversely
related) and the proportion of smallholder land devoted to annual rather
than perennial crops.  These data are summarized below for three categories



- 8 -
of provinces, those covering Java and Bali, with population densities
exceeding 400/sq km; those covering the more developed and commercialized
regions of the Other Islands, with population densities exceeding 50/sq km;
and the remainder, with population densities below that figure:
Moderately developed Underdeveloped Other
Java/Bali   Other Island regions       Island regions
(6 provinces)      (7 provinces)         (13 provinces)
Population density
(per sq km)             613                84                      13
Percent of land area
in smallholder
agriculture              47                 13                      4
Average smallholding
size (ha)               0.67               1.18                   2.03
Percent of smallholder
land in annual crops    78                  59                     43
Despite the pattern represented by these figures, Indonesian smallholder
agriculture is still relatively unspecialized, with most farmers in the
Other Islands devoting a considerable portion of their land and time to
raising annual food crops for their own subsistence, while many Javanese
cultivate land-intensive perennials (coconut and areca nut palms, fruit
trees) for home use. Although this is partly a natural reaction to the
risks inherent in smallholder agriculture, particularly given the very
small holdings even in the Other Islands, specialization and trade would
probably increase with more efficient transport, marketing, and processing
systems.
Institutions Supporting Smallholder Agriculture
2.04      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) consists of five line
commodity-oriented Directorates General, responsible for food crops, estate
(commercial) crops, livestock, fisheries, and forestry, and two function-
ally oriented agencies, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training,
and Extension (AAETE) and the Agency for Agricultural Research and
Development (AARD). The Directorates General are responsible for a wide
range of planning, regulatory, statistical, and commercial and smallholder
development activities within their respective commodity subsectors, includ-
ing the supervision of Government corporations responsible for managing seed
farms, plantations, sugar factories, fishing fleets and shore facilities,
cattle ranches, and forestry enterprises. These corporations have
implemented Bank-financed projects for tree crop development, sugar milling,
fisheries, seed production and beef cattle development.



- 9 -
2.05      Each of the line Directorates General is represented at the pro-
vincial level by a provincial department, headed by an Inspector. Where the
volume of work and staff numbers permit, these departments are divided into
bureaus reflecting the functional directorates in the Directorates General.
Provincial Inspectors are administratively responsible to the Governor and
provincial Government, which often finance large portions of the department-
al budgets for salaries, allowances, buildings, and field activities.
However, they remain responsible to the central Directorates General for
implementation of national programs and technical matters in general. The
Ministry of Agriculture appoints one of the five Inspectors as provincial
coordinator, to represent the Ministry and coordinate national programs at
provincial level. Where the work load justifies it and provincial funds are
adequate, the various provincial departments maintain offices at residency
or district (kabupaten) levels. The lowest level structural position is
that of the subdistrict agricultural officer (mantri kecamatan), who is
almost exclusively concerned with statistical reporting and regulatory work,
including rental of smallholder lands for sugar production, procurement of
smallholder output (sugar, tobacco, tea) for Government factories, and
administration of subsidies, grants and credit programs.
2.06      Although AAETE was given the official mandate as the leading agency
in the field of agricultural extension in 1974 (para. 2.10), it has not yet
been granted operational control of the various bodies of field extension
workers in the provinces. Since its establishment, it has concentrated its
efforts in the areas of refining extension methodology, producing extension
materials, and particularly in managing the education and training of agri-
cultural staff for the other agricultural agencies. It operates three types
of institutions, agricultural (vocational) high schools producing technical-
level graduates, regional in-service training centers to upgrade the skills
of provincial agricultural staff, and regional agricultural information
centers to produce extension materials (publications, films, radio broad-
casts) for use by the other agencies and to support extension work through
organizing farmer competitions, field days, and conferences. In addition,
AAETE runs a national training center at Ciawi, near Bogor, which provides
longer-term in-service training courses for agricultural teachers and
instructors from the regional schools and centers, and for senior personnel
of the provincial and central agricultural agencies. The high schools and
training centers are being assisted by two Bank-financed education projects
(Credit 288-IND and Loan 1692-IND), while the first Bank-financed agricul-
tural research project (Loan 1179-IND) provided funds for establishing the
information centers.
2.07      AARD was established in 1974 to supervise and coordinate all
agricultural research activity, which was previously carried out independ-
ently by specialized research institutes and the technical directorates of
the line Directorates General. AARD has managed to assert its jurisdiction
over most ongoing agricultural research programs. There are five central
research institutes for the respective commodity subsectors, all located in
the Bogor area, as well as subsidiary commodity research establishments in
the field (e.g. for rubber and other tree crops in Medan, for food crops in
Sukamandi) and functional institutes such as the Soils Research Institute.
The research institutes have a network of 99 experiment stations and 37
observation stations throughout the country. AARD is the major implementing
agency of the first Bank-financed agricultural research project (Loan
1179-IND), as well as a proposed second project now being appraised.



- 10 -
2.08      The major development activity in support of smallholder agricul-
ture undertaken to date within the 10A is the BIMAS program, which provides
supervised short-term production credit mainly for rice, with small ancillary
programs for secondary food crops and poultry.  The program finances ferti-
lizer, insecticide, spraying costs, and a subsistence allowance. The
program is administered by a secretariat headed by the Director General of
Food Crops Agriculture and implemented in the field by staff of the provin-
cial food crops agricultural departments, including extension field workers
and mantri kecamatan, the former providing technical advice and extension,
the latter providing field level administration. Other participants in the
BIMAS program, both in planning committees at various levels and in field
level operations, are the Bank Rakyat Indonesia (for disbursements and
collections), the Directorate General of Cooperatives in the ILinistry of
Trade (for input supply and marketing), BULOG /1 (for purchase of rice and
maintenance of floor prices), and the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development in the Ministry of Public IJorks (for irrigation services). Uhile
the BIMAS program achieved major successes during the early 1970s, both in
terms of stimulating rapid increases in paddy yields (mainly through increases
in fertilizer usage associated with adoption of high yielding -varieties) and
in terms of recovering debt, a succession of years of poor rainfall, un-
precedented pest attacks, and financial irregularities has led to seriously
deteriorating credit recovery performance. Nevertheless, the BIMAS program
has taught a sizeable proportion of Indonesia's paddy farmers the value of
high yielding and pest resistant varieties, fertilizer and pesticide
applications, and the benefits of following extension advice in general,
while on the other hand creating field-oriented provincial food crops
agricultural extension services which have been expanded, organized and
strengthened under the NFCEP (para. 2.13). Realizing that the farmers' desire
to upgrade their practical techniques and the existence of an effective
extension delivery system would permit continued agricultural improvement
even in the face of declining use of institutional credit, the Government
has defined an alternative program (INIAS) which basically consists of the
formulation of extension recommendations jointly by AARD and DGFCA staff,
and extension of those recommendations by the field workers. Increases in
cropped area judged to conform to INMAS recommendations have more than
compensated for declines in BIMAS coverage over the past three years.
2.09      The GOI has recently reorganized the large program of officially
sponsored transmigration, transferring the responsibility for implementing
specialized components of transmigration projects from the Directorate
General of Transmigration (DGT) to specialized line agencies in sectoral
Ministries. Under the new arrangement, the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture (DGFCA) is primarily responsible for agricultural aspects of
transmigration projects, including provision of inputs (seeds, fertilizer,
and pesticide) and agricultural extension. While DGFCA wTill perform this
function from the planning stage onward in all future transmigration
projects,/2 there remains a backlog of ongoing transmigration schemes still
/1 Badan Urusan Logistik, or National Logistics Board, is basically a rice
procurement agency.
/2  Commencing with the Bank-financed Transmigration II Project (Loan
1707-IND).



- 11 -
in the development phase (with 93,000 settler families in 18 provinces) and
schemes commencing in 1978 (with 27,000 families in 14 provinces), for which
the DGFCA will have to assume the responsibility for agricultural aspects.
In particular, a relatively intensive and integrated form of agricultural
extension is needed to guide the settlers, who must learn new cropping systems
and agricultural practices to successfully cope with new agricultural environ-
ments.
The Status of Agricultural Extension
2.10      Before 1974 each of the commodity-oriented Directorates General
operated its own extension service. In that year a Presidential Decree
established AAETE, ostensibly with jurisdiction over extension activity, and
all Directorates of Extension at central level were disbanded with some of
their personnel transferring to AAETE. Extension bureaus within the
provincial agricultural departments were also disbanded, with the exception
of the food crop agricultural services. As the DGFCA and its provincial
counterparts were heavily responsible for implementing the BIMAS/INMAS
programs, and in fact controlled 80% of all field agricultural staff, the
Government decided to let this arrangement continue to avoid disruption of
vital food crop production programs. Subsequent developments prevented AAETE
from assuming responsibility for field extension,/1 leaving the DGFCA as the
only agency with large extension field forces. Currently the DGFCA has
about 7,860 field extension workers (PPL), /2 and 336 subject matter
specialists (PPS/3) operating at provincial and district level in 26
provinces./4 Most of these personnel have been recruited under the BIMAS
program and receive salary supplements (allowances) from the BIMAS
Secretariat through the provincial food crops agriculture departments.
2.11      Pure extension activity was never a major part of the work of the
Directorates General and provincial departments responsible for estate crops,
livestock and fisheries. In contrast to the short-term seasonal focus of
food crops (other than fruit), with requirements to shift attention rapidly
from land preparation to seed selection, nursery establishment, various
applications of fertilizers and insecticides, water management, weeding, and
harvesting, even smallholder activity in the other subsectors is primarily a
matter of establishing and maintaining long-lived capital assets, such as
stands of tree crops, animal herds, chicken houses, and fish ponds. Field
work in these subsectors thus typically concentrates on assisting small
localized numbers of farmers to establish those assets (e.g., via rubber and
coconut replanting programs), involves a considerable amount of credit or
grant finance per farmer, often involves stationing field staff at physical
facilities (e.g. latex and copra processing centers, sugar factories and
tobacco barns, demonstration fish ponds) who are then not available to meet
/1 The Government is currently interested in taking steps to strengthen
the role and capability of AAETE in the coordination of field extension,
in support of which a consultant study would be executed under this
project (para. 4.21 and Annex 7).
/2 Penyuluh Pertanian Lapangan, graduates of agricultural high schools
responsible for forming and instructing farmer groups.
/3 Penyuluh Pertanian Spesialis, graduates of university agricultural
faculties, responsible for technical backstopping of PPLs.
/4 Excluding East Timor.



- 12 -
farmers regularly, and typically can not afford to maintain close contact
with farmers who have completed the establishment phase, other than for
credit recovery purposes.   This type of development activity, which is
vital to the building of agricultural assets, has unfortunately been
confused with the pure extension operation implemented thus far only for
food crops, and the attempt by the Government to eliminate duplication of
extension activities by eliminating extension units has had the unintended
result of reducing field staff available for development activity.
2.12      Without a central funding source equivalent to BIMAS, the other
Directorates General have attempted to maintain their development operations
by hiring field technicians on a temporary basis, with provincial funds or
on specific project budgets, which reinforces the restriction of extension
work for nGn-food crops subsectors to special target areas. In addition
to the small volume of extension work being implemented by the Directorates
General of Estate Crops, Livestock, and Fisheries, the Directorate of
Rehabilitation in the Directorate General of Forestry undertakes extension
work in specified critical erosion-prone areas, to encourage farmers to
establish terraces, waterways, woodlots, and other soil conservation measures.
In practice very few farmers dependent on estate crops, livestock, or inland
fish ponds, or farming in erosion-prone areas, receive effective regular
extension in those fields, due to lack of personnel and budget in the agencies
responsible and the enforced specialization of the provincial food crops
extension services. A survey in 1978 of provincial agricultural departments
estimated field staff available for full-time extension work to smallholders
as follows:
Food        Inland         Estate     Live-    Forestry (soil
crops     fisheries        crops       stock    conservation) /1  Total
PPLs   7,860         117             866        222              0          9,065
PPSs     336           13             67          51            50             517
The National Food Crops Extension Project
2.13      The Bank's involvement in assisting the improvement of field
extension services for food crops began with extension components in
irrigation projects, whereby a version of the training and visit system of
extension/2 was progressively introduced in irrigation command areas by
provincial food crops agricultural staff. Based on successful organiza-
tion of these efforts, an attempt was made to formulate a project which
would create a unified extension service, also based on the training and
visit system, serving all smallholder agricultural activities. However,
L   A large number of staff, estimated at 3,500 temporary employees, are
engaged in the physical works associated with the reforestation program.
/2 This system is described in detail in a Bank publication entitled
Agricultural Extension, the Training and Visit System, by Daniel
Benor and James Q. Harrison.



- 13 -
due to the developments outlined above, it was eventually decided to
proceed with a food crops extension project to be implemented by the DGFCA,
which would cover nine major food crop producing provinces: West, East,
and Central Java; Jogjakarta; North, South, and West Sumatra; South Sulawesi;
and South Kalimantan. The project commenced in 1976, and despite certain
deficiencies in administrative functions at the central (para. 4.02) and PPS
level (paras. 2.14-2.15), has been successful in organizing field extension
work in the provinces. The expanded force of PPLs recruited and reorganized
under the project has formed farmer groups in each village area, encouraged
the farmers and village leaders to select leading farmers to be the main
points of contact between the extension worker and the mass of farmers, and
arranged and implemented a permanent schedule of meetings (normally on a
biweekly basis) with the farmer groups. The PPLs have been well managed by
extension foremen (PPMs),/l also selected under the project, and by structural
extension officers in the district, residency, and provincial extension
bureaus. The main achievement of the central NFCEP project unit has also been
in the area of supervising, guiding, and motivating extension field work,
through a schedule of constant visits to widely dispersed local offices and
farmer group meetings in the field by senior officers from the project
headquarters in Jakarta. This supervision effort has succeeded in
communicating and upgrading extension methodology and technique throughout
the provincial hierarchies to the point where most managers and extension
staff know what is expected of them. The clear specification, scheduling and
supervision of tasks for the field workers have resulted in an increase in
both the work effort and the morale of both PPLs and supervisory staff. Due
largely to this organizational momentum, food crop agriculture departments in
non-project provinces have requested to be included in the project. In
response to these requests, and to realization of large cost savings on
buildings and equipment financed under the loan, four additional provinces
(Bali, Aceh, West Kalimantan, and Nusa Tenggara Barat) were included in the
project in 1978./2 Most of the remaining provinces have continued to express
strong interest in implementing the training and visit system, and
participating in the project.
2.14      While PPLs and PPMs have generally been well managed and supervised,
and have devoted themselves almost entirely to extension work /3 in the NFCEP
provinces, PPSs frequently have not. The PPS is expected to devote one
third of his time to the biweekly training (briefing) sessions for PPLs in
the RECs, one third to field visits to assist PPLs in the resolution of
specific agronomic problems identified by PPLs, and one third to consultation
and work with more specialized experts at local universities and research
stations, working to refine extension recommendations, to resolve agronomic
questions beyond his capability, and to observe and assist experiment
/1 Penyuluh Pertanian Madia, managers of PPLs based at Rural Extension
Centers, selected from among experienced senior PPLs.
/2 Parts of Lampung province have been served by a program assisted by the
Japanese Government which shares many important features with the NFCEP.
/3 The major responsibility of the PPL to the BIMAS program is actually
extension, e.g., forming, meeting with, and instructing farmer groups.
Many PPLs also spend some time assisting farmers to fill out credit
application forms, but this activity also serves to build rapport
between farmers and PPLs.



- 14 -
programs.  The major objective of these activities is for the PPS to prepare
for each locality a curriculum of impact points, or concrete profitable
technical recommendations, geared to the stages of the dominant crops; to
brief the PPLs on the impact points to be extended to the farmer groups over
the next two weeks; and to obtain feedback on actual field experience from
PPLs and personal visits.
2.15      In actual fact, as the PPSs are frequently the most highly
educated staff available to the provincial services, they have often been
drafted to perform a multitude of administrative jobs (preparing annual
provincial agricultural reports or budgets, managing research stations and
seed farms, writing project proposals) to the detriment of their extension
responsibilities. As a result, training of PPLs must frequently be done by
PPMs or senior PPLs, who are often no more qualified than the mass of PPLs
and who have no links to the research stations and universities. Without
the full time efforts of the PPS, impact points are unlikely to be accurate,
complete or relevant to local field conditions or the stage of the crop.
Without such impact points, a clear understanding of recommendations gained
in the training sessions, and occasional assistance^in the field by a PPS,
the PPL tends to lose both morale and the confidence of the farmers.
Furthermore, without spending a substantial amount of time in farmers'
fields the young university-educated PPS never gains much understanding of
the constraints and possibilities of smallholder agriculture. Thus,
management of field extension under the proposed project would focus on the
total involvement of the PPSs in the training and visit system (para. 4.11).
2.16      In terms of specific inputs, the NFCEP provides for:
(a) an increase in the number of PPLs to about 9,000, giving a
ratio of one PPL to 1,600 farm families in project provinces
in Java and Bali and one PPL to 800 farm families in the Other
Island provinces;
(b) the construction or rehabilitation of 645 Rural Extension
Centers (RECs), small offices serving as the operational base
of 5-15 PPLs;
(c) an expansion of extension supervisory staff, to a level of
about 1600 PPMs, two to each REC and two to each district
extension office; 42 regional extension supervisors; and 350
PPSs with a basic formula of five per province and one per
district, with groups of four at regional centers where
necessary. The overall PPL/PPS ratio is about 25 to 1;
(d) procurement of about 650 four-wheel drive vehicles, 3,260
motorcycles, bicycles, horses, and motorboats to provide the
mobility required by field and supervisory extension workers to
implement the training and visit system, along with 32 mobile
extension units, other vehicles, and basic office and
extension equipment packages, all allocated on the basis of
requirements of various levels of extension work; and



- 15 -
(e) local short-course training, a limited number of overseas
fellowships and short study tours, and consultant assistance in
management and technical matters.
2.17      As its name implies, the NFCEP is restricted by design to extension
of information on smallholder food crops, ignoring smallholder activities in
estate (commercial) crops, animal husbandry, inland fisheries, and soil
conservation. In retrospect, the limitation in scope was probably fortunate,
as the organizational effort required to get the training and visit system
moving has been great enough without the additional complexities of involve-
ment of other line Directorates General and multiple subject matter fields
outside the purview of the provincial food crops agriculture extension
services. In actuality, the project thus far has extended mainly information
on rice, with attention paid to fruits, vegetables (mainly various bean crops
on ricefield bunds), and, rarely, to the important palawija /1 crops on a
localized, ad hoc basis. The major specific agricultural impact of the
project to date has been its remarkable success in combatting the unprece-
dented severe attacks of brown plant hoppers in the nation's main rice areas
in 1976-77 (paras. 1.06-1.07). In the years following the outbreak, the
expanded corps of field workers has promoted a shift by hundreds of thousands
of small farmers to recently released resistant rice varieties and increased
usage of effective insecticides. The rapid alleviation of losses to this pest
alone has probably fully recouped the costs of the NFCEP from an economic
point of view, and underscores the value of a well-organized corps of field
extension workers in constant contact with farmer groups in every locality,
capable of reacting quickly to unanticipated changes in agricultural
conditions by disseminating needed information to the mass of farmers.
2.18      At this point, the new extension service is operating rather well
at field level in the 13 project provinces and parts of Lampung, areas which
include nearly 80% of the farm population of Indonesia. Although problems
exist, they can be corrected over time, and with the experience gained thus
far, expanding the basic food crops extension system to the remaining
provinces will not be unduly difficult. The time has thus arrived to
introduce, selectively and in phases, extension of information for non-food
crops and smallholder livestock and fisheries, in areas where those activities
provide major components of farmers' incomes. This step is important both to
utilize more effectively the information delivery system already developed,
and to generate more farmer interest in the extension process itself, which
should improve the effectiveness of food crops extension also. Limited to
food crops, the present system does not attract the desirable level of farmer
participation in areas where most farmers receive most of their cash incomes
from rubber, coconuts, cloves, tobacco, cattle raising, fishponds, etc.
/1 Palawija is the collective name for secondary food crops traditionally
grown in rice fields in the dry season, e.g., cassava, maize, soybeans,
peanuts, and sweet potatoes.



- 16 -
Expanding the scope of the extension effort is the major technical objective
of the proposed National Agricultural Extension II Project.
Pro4ject Formulation
2.19      Formulation and preparation of the proposed project grew directly
from experience gained in implementing the NFCEP. Preparation reports have
been prepared by the project unit with the assistance of consultants engaged
under the NFCEP, and an IDA preappraisal mission in November 1978. This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of lIessrs.
J. Goldberg, W.P. Ting, K. Sengupta (Bank), D. Benor, and C.W. Brookson
(Consultants), which visited Indonesia in March 1979.
3. THE PROJECT
General Description
3.01      The proposed project would cover 26 provinces of Indonesia,
proceeding on a phased basis to expand the food crops extension service to the
13 provinces excluded from the NFCEP, to introduce a unified extension service
for transmigration areas, and to introduce extension of technical recommenda-
tions covering smallholder estate crops, livestock, inland fisheries, and soil
conservation activities into the extension program developed heretofore for
food crops. The project would provide for:
(a) strengthening of the headquarters project management unit to
enable efficient administration and programming of the expanded
extension program and improved provision of support services
to provincial extension staff (paras. 4.03-4.04);
(b) an increase in extension staff of about 5,200 PPLs, 1,120 PPMs,
and 600 PPSs, including those required for transmigration scheme
areas (paras. 4.07-4.08);
(c) completion of a national network of about 1,120 RECs, construction
of a limited amount of staff housing in remote areas, and expan-
sion of project headquarters facilities (paras. 3.06-3.08);
(d)  procurement of equipment and furniture and provision of vehicles
(paras. 3.09-3.10);
(e) production and procurement of extension materials (paras.
3.11-3.12);
(f) training of various levels of extension staff in technical and
methodological matters, through a limited number of overseas
courses and fellowships, and a large number of local train-
ing courses (paras. 4.12-4.17); and



- 17 -
(g)  consultant assistance in formulation of agricultural extension
recommendations, engineering and supervision of construction,
management, and execution of an organizational study (paras. 4.18-
4.21).
While all the foregoing aspects of the extension program would be completed
during the five-year project period (1980-84), the refinement and enrichment
of extension content and methodology is an ongoing process which would proceed
beyond formal project completion.
Extension Methodology
3.02      The basic principles of the training and visit system of extension
are by now well understood widely in Indonesia, both in the abstract and in
terms of concrete implementation at field level. In particular, NFCEP manage-
ment staff have proven quite effective in communicating those principles to
the provincial agricultural staff who must implement them. This task will be
magnified in the second project, due to the increased difficulty of communi-
cations in the sparsely populated provinces and transmigration areas to be
included in the program, and the involvement for the first time of PPS staff
from the nonfood crops agricultural services. Training programs undertaken
under the project would thus be increased in frequency, and would concentrate
on teaching extension methodology to new nonfood crops PPSs, as well as tech-
nical background of other subsectors to the PPLs. It should be noted that
only one set of extension farmer groups will be formed in any locality by one
set of PPLs, all of whom would be responsible to the provincial food crops
agriculture departments, and who would meet the farmer groups on a single set
of nonoverlapping schedules. These arrangements should simplify coverage
of both new territory and new extension topics. To account for geographical
differences in accessibility and population concentration, the basic
PPL:farmer ratio would vary as follows:
Transmigration areas                    1 PPL:500 families
Sparsely populated provinces/i         1 PPL:600 families
Remaining Other Island provinces        1 PPL:800 families
Java and Bali                          1 PPL:1,600 families
In sparsely populated areas the ratio would be reduced both by reducing the
number of farmer groups per PPL (from 16 to 8) and hence the PPL's schedule
of visits (from two to one per visiting day), and by reducing the size of the
groups.
3.03      The basic innovation of the proposed project would be the intro-
duction of the new subsector subject matter into the extension program. The
mechanism for achieving this would follow the following principles:
(a) The 237 districts to be covered by the project have been
assessed /2 as to their potential for a significant expansion
/1 Provinces with population densities below 20/sq km.
/2 This assessment was executed by NFCEP project unit staff jointly with
representatives of the other line Directorates General, assisted by
Bank missions.



- 18 -
of smallholder commercial crops, animal husbandry, and fresh-
water pond fisheries, and the severity of deforestation and
erosion due to incursion of smallholder agriculture. A schedule
for introducing extension packages for the new subsectors in
the various districts over the project period (1980-84) has been
worked out, to avoid introduction of more than one new subsector
per district per year, and to enable adequate preparation of staff
in each district prior to introduction of a new extension package.
(b) The introduction of the new extension packages would primarily
be the responsibility of the non-food crop PPSs. PPSs for the new
subsectors would be attached to their respective provincial
departments and would receive their basic salaries from those
departments, but would be fully committed to the extension program
and would receive project allowances under the proposed project.
They would be allocated to various districts on the basis of the
criterion described above, and would be responsible for training,
briefing and backstopping the general PPLs in those districts in
their specialized subsector fields. Eventually, nonfood crops
PPSs would be specialized by major commodity (rubber, coconut,
coffee/tea, cloves/spices) or animal (poultry, cattle,
goats/sheep, swine) groups.
(c) PPSs would be engaged, and they and concerned PPLs would be trained
during the year prior to introduction of a new extension package
in any district.
(d) In general, the introduction of new subsectors would begin first in
the original nine NFCEP provinces (1981), followed by the additional
four NFCEP provinces and Lampung (1982), and the twelve other new
provinces (1983), which would first establish an operative food
crops extension program before initiating extension for additional
subsectors.
3.04      The coverage of smallholder activities other than food crops would
be phased in to ongoing food crops extension work. Given the long-term,
asset establishment and maintenance nature of these activities (para. 2.11),
extension on such matters as proper methods of tapping rubber trees; con-
struction, water supply to, and fertilization of fishponds; intercropping
of coconuts; construction of chicken houses; innoculation and breeding of
cattle; and terracing of steep land, is not particularly time-bound, and can
be rather easily fitted in to the slack periods of the seasonal crops. In
many cases, where intercropping can be practiced, where fish can be raised
in paddy fields, where estate crops (e.g., sugar) are rotated with food
crops, or where a mutually beneficial farming system can be established
involving animals (for manure and power) and crops (for feed and silage),
extension recommendations for the various activities must be integrated to
be relevant to actual farm level decisions. To attain this wider coverage
rapidly and efficiently, extension recommendations must be agreed upon
rapidly for the new activities (para. 4.19), PPSs must be engaged and placed
in the appropriate provinces and districts, and both they and the PPLs in
those districts must be adequately trained.



- 19 -
3.05      To avoid duplication of efforts of field project management units
implementing the development programs of the other line Directorates General,
extension staff would observe certain guidelines as to the boundaries between
their work and development programs, including the following:
(a) Project staff would not attempt to duplicate specific service
functions undertaken by other agencies, such as veterinary or
insemination operations on livestock; direction of paid laborers
or farmers in terracing, reforesting, or tree crop replanting
operations; disbursing or recouping credit; or procuring produce
for processing. Instead they would serve as the main communication
or liaison channel between the farmers and the local staff who
provide such services;
(b) Project staff would not assume responsibility for any physical
installations other than the RECs;
(c)  In their extension work with farmers, project staff would strive
to recommend only the crops, farming systems, technical practices,
and levels of input usage which in their view provided clear
financial benefits to the groups of farmers for whom they are
responsible.
Construction Program
3.06      Rural Extension Centers serve as the home bases of the field exten-
sion workers (PPLs and PPMs), as their offices, the site of their regular
(usually biweekly) training and briefing by PPLs, occasional farmer courses
and meetings, and simple agricultural field trials, and as storehouses for
their equipment. Under the NFCEP, RECs in the 13 project provinces were
specified at 40 sq m in size, located in predominantly food crop producing
areas, and did not include staff housing or site development (fencing, access
roads). The buildings are too small to effectively serve as training and
extension centers, offices, and storehouses for extension equipment, even
without the additional equipment required for nonfood crops extension. Also,
it is now considered preferable to house the PPM directly responsible for the
REC at the building, both to safeguard the building and to provide a constant
point of contact. Thus, the 441 new RECs to be built under the proposed
project would include 84 sq m of functional space and 46 sq m of housing for a
PPM and his family, and existing RECs would be gradually expanded to this
standard. Site development would also be included in construction contracts
for new RECs, and would be provided for existing RECs under separate
contracts. Although most of the new RECs would be constructed in the 13 newly
served provinces, a substantial number would also be required in the 13 NFCEP
provinces, in areas sparsely covered by that project, while the construction
program would be completed by the rehabilitation and upgrading of old
buildings currently being used as RECs.



- 20 -
As in the NFCEP, all land required for RECs would be provided by the GOI.  The
REC construction schedule is described in detail in Annex 2, Tables 3-4, and
summarized below:
NFCEP      Remaining
provinces    provinces        Total
-------- Numbers of RECs --------
New construction, settled areas                  174        226             400
New construction, transmigration sites /a         16          25             41
Expansion to 130 sq m                            499         15             514
Rehabilitation and upgrading                      68          22             90
Total                                        757         288          1,045
of which site development /a for              364         274            638
Existing completed RECs                                                      75
/a Excluding 5 RECs provided for Transmigration II Project (Loan 1707-IND)
sites in Jambi Province.
3.07     Aside from PPM housing in REC compounds, separate housing would
be required for 134 PPSs, in particularly remote areas, as an inducement for
qualified graduates to take up such posts, and all project staff assigned to
transmigration schemes would require housing, as no alternative housing is
available in such areas. Such housing would be provided for 286 PPLs (36 sq
m), 24 PPSs (70 sq m), and the 41 PPMs (46 sq m) not housed in the REC
compounds themselves, following standard GOI guidelines (Annex 2, Table 4).
3.08      A new project headquarters building (1,230 sq m) would be con-
structed for the expanded central project unit (Annex 2, Table 5). The
present building (200 sq m), constructed under the NFCEP, is too small to
house the present project staff, many of whom are dispersed in other
quarters throughout Jakarta. Assurances have been obtained that by April 1,
1980, the GOI would legally assign sufficient land in the Pasar Minggu agri-
cultural complex to construct the headquarters.
Vehicles and Equipment
3.09      Vehicles are the single most important physical input to the train-
ing and visit system, as they provide the mobility required to meet the
demanding schedules of PPL field visits, field supervision and assistance by
managers and PPSs, and the biweekly training sessions of PPLs by PPSs. Aside
from the relatively few areas where PPLs would require horses or motorboats,
in mountainous and swamp or tidal regions respectively, at least 25% of all
PPLs would be provided with motorcycles and the remainder with bicycles,



- 21 -
depending on the density of farm population and topography (Annex 2, Table
6)./1 All PPMs would be provided with either a motorcycle or motorboat. PPSs
will receive motorboats, motorcycles, or be provided with four-wheeled
vehicles for their extension activities on the following basis: at least two
such vehicles at each provincial office, one at each agricultural development
area /2 office, and one at each district level office. In addition to these
182 vehicles, 96 four-wheeled vehicles would be provided during the first year
of the project at the provincial and district levels, for joint use by
extension supervisors and by PPSs. All four-wheeled vehicles would be
operated under motor pool arrangements at each geographic level. A total of
278 four-wheeled vehicles, 2,600 motorcycles, 3,900 bicycles, 325 boats, and
430 horses would be provided under the project, in addition to a small number
of specialized vehicles (66 vehicle trailers and 13 mobile extension units).
All vehicles and transport items would be provided during the fiscal year of
recruitment of the staff for whom they are intended, aside from those provided
during the first year of the project. A schedule of vehicle provision is
given in Annex 2, Table 7.
3.10      Equipment and furniture would be provided under the project to all
new RECs and to offices of the provincial food crops agriculture departments
responsible for supervising field extension work. The basic REC equipment
package, largely similar to that provided under the NFCEP (Annex 2, Table 8),
consists of the minimum required office equipment and furniture, instructional
equipment, and basic agricultural equipment necessary for field extension
work. Some inexpensive and portable instruments would be provided in quanti-
ties sufficient to provide them to all or most PPLs, to enable them to demon-
strate their use to farmers. In addition, specialized extension packages
useful for extension in the nonfood crops subsectors would be provided to RECs
in areas where those activities predominate (Annex 2, Tables 9-10). These
packages have been designed to include only the simplest tools, equipment
or demonstration areas (fishponds or soil conservation/reafforestation
layouts), to avoid transforming RECs into specialized demonstration farms
incapable of replication by most smallholders. Finally, provincial and dis-
trict extension offices in the newly included provinces would receive basic
equipment packages required for supervisory work at those levels (Annex 2,
Table 11).
Extension Materials
3.11      The project would provide for the acquisition and production of a
wide range of printed and film extension material (Annex 2, Table 14), the
former chiefly for use by extension staff themselves, the latter chiefly
for presentation to groups of farmers in the RECs and to entire villages by
mobile extension units. PPL diaries, which also include standard information
summaries of use for field work, have proven very useful under the NFCEP in
enabling the PPLs to record and report field findings, and in facilitating
monitoring by PPMs and higher level supervisors of PPL performance and
/1   In general, PPLs travelling on average more than 30 km/day in flat
terrain or 15 km/day in mountainous areas would be provided with
motorcycles.
/2   Roughly synonymous with the residencies.



- 22 -
results. Under this project the diary system would also be introduced for
PPMs and PPSs (para. 4.11). All staff would be supplied with annual
extension handbooks, presenting recommended improvements in field work
methods, recent research results applicable to smallholder agriculture,
updated technical extension recommendations, and general agricultural
developments. PPLs would also be supplied with brochures on special topics
of immediate relevance. This kind of material is particularly important for
upgrading the technical knowledge and work patterns of extension staff, as
outside provincial capitals they rarely have any access to technical books
in their fields. The project would also provide small quantities of
standard text and reference books and journal subscriptions to provincial
and district extension offices, to build working technical libraries for
local-level training courses and lending to staff. As under the NFCEP,
original material would be written jointly by headquarters project staff
and representatives of AARD and AAETE, and would be produced to the extent
possible by AAETE's national and nine regional agricultural information
centers (AICs), being developed under the Agricultural Research and
Extension Project (Loan 1179-IND). AAETE would also assist the project unit
in formulating a recommended list of standard reference works and journals.
3.12      As under the NFCEP, all newly commissioned RECs would be supplied
with slide projectors, and all provincial extension bureaus with mobile
extension units capable of presenting moving pictures. The constraint on
film usage at this point would thus not be equipment, but relevant and attrac-
tive slide shows and films. While rental and purchase of foreign extension
film material is of some use, the best material is that produced in Indonesia,
particularly if produced in the region of use. The project would provide for
the production of original instructional films to cover such technical topics
as rubber tapping, fertilizer application and pest control for various crops,
livestock breeding and fish pond and chicken house construction and operation,
as well as institutional topics relating to the extension process itself,
credit, and cooperatives. Rental of technical and entertainment films, and
production of film copies, would also be covered. Slide shows stressing
particular impact points of local relevance, for presentation after the films
or separately, would be produced and distributed down to the REC level. Since
agricultural and linguistic patterns vary widely across Indonesia, the produc-
tion, dubbing, and distribution of film materials would require careful plan-
ning. The program would be implemented with the maximum possible participa-
tion of AAETE and the AICs, and assistance would be sought from the Develop-
ment Support Communications Service of the UN, which maintains a regional
office in Bangkok. Original film production would probably have to be
largely contracted to local commercial firms for several years, however.



- 23 -
Design and Construction
3.13      Under the NFCEP all engineering and architectural work for project
civil works was contracted to a single local consulting firm, which has
caused delay in survey, design, and construction supervision. As the
project works (RECs and houses) are standardized, simple, small, and highly
dispersed, engineering work under this project would be contracted to the
extent possible to firms in the respective provinces, or in the various
regions where there are no qualified firms at provincial level. The
engineering firms would be responsible for site surveys, preparation of
tender documents and contracts, and supervision of construction. Engineer-
ing work and formal land acquisition for the 1980 construction program is
now well advanced. An assurance has been obtained at negotiations that land
for all project works would be made available to the project six months
before commencement of work on any contract package.
Cost Estimates
3.14      The total project cost is estimated at US$81.9 million, of which
US$18.2 million (22%) is foreign exchange. Construction cost estimates are
based on current contract unit costs (which include minor local taxes) for
similar buildings, both in Java and the Other Islands. Cost estimates for
equipment, furniture and extension materials are based on recent contracts for
identical items purchased under the NFCEP, while for locally assembled
vehicles estimates are based on recent quotations from local suppliers. Cost
estimates for consultant services are based on recent local experience, and
are derived below (para. 4.20). Unit costs for local training programs (Annex
2, Table 12) are based on detailed budgets for training courses prepared by
the NFCEP project unit while costs for overseas courses and study tours and
consultant services are based on recent experience under other Bank Group -
financed projects in Indonesia. Salaries and allowances for incremental field
staff are derived from current scales under the NFCEP (Annex 4, Table 5), and
project a planned post-devaluation across-the-board salary increase. The cost
estimates include physical contingencies of 10% for all cost items except
incremental field staff. The cost estimates also include an allowance for
expected price contingencies during project execution (37% of base costs plus
physical contingencies) based on the following projected annual inflation
rates for civil works, equipment, and services:
Rate of inflation (%)
1980     1981      1982-84
Civil Works, Equipment, and Services
Local component                        15         15         10
Foreign component                       9          8          7



- 24 -
3.15      Detailed project cost estimates are presented in Annex 2, Table 1
and supporting tables referred to there. Project costs are summarized
below:
Table 3.1:  PROJECT COST SUMMIARY
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
----  Rp billion ----    ---- US$ million ----   exchange
Civil works           6.39    2.13    8.52   10.22    3.42   13.64         25
Passenger
vehicles            0.29    2.43    2.72    0.48    3.88    4.36         90
Materials
& equipment         1.50    2.67    4.17    2.40    4.27    6.67         64
Training &
consultants         4.34    1.40    5.74    6.95    2.24    9.19         24
Incremental
field staff        14.24      -    14.24   22.79        -    22.79        0
Base cost            26.76    8.63   35.39   42.84   13.81   56.65         24
Physical
contingencies       1.25    0.84    2.09    2.01    1.34    3.35         40
Price
contingencies      11.81    1.88   13.69   18.91    3.00   21.91         14
Total           39.82   11.35   51.17   63.76   18.15   81.91         22
Financing
3.16      The proposed IDA credit of US$42 million would finance 55% of
total project costs less the costs of passenger vehicles /1 (four-wheeled
vehicles and trailers, motorcycles, and bicycles), for which a total import
ban has been imposed and which would be provided through locally reserved
procurement. The amount of the credit has been based on the size of the
remaining categories except for salaries and allowances of incremental
field staff and the costs of the project headquarters, which the GOI has
decided to finance entirely with its own funds. The credit would finance
US$13.2 million (72%) of foreign costs and US$28.9 million (45%) of local
costs. The Government would provide the remaining Rp 24.9 billion (US$39.9
million) through annual budget appropriations.
/1   Amounting to US$5.7 million with all associated contingencies.



- 25 -
Procurement /1
3.17      Civil Works.  Nearly all project civil works (US$13.5 million) would
consist of the construction or upgrading of small rural installations or
houses, representing an expenditure of no more than US$15,000 at any location
(Annex 2, Table 3). These works would be carried out following local
competitive bidding, with contract packages generally encompassing entire
provincial construction programs. On this basis, contracts for works in
settled areas would average US$0.5 million in size with the largest contract
worth about US$1.5 million. Contracts for works in the remote transmigration
areas would also be tendered and let at the provincial level, and would
typically be even smaller in value (about US$100,000). Construction of a new
project headquarters building (US$184,000) would also be tendered under local
competitive bidding. Local contracting procedures have been reviewed by the
Association, and with the following assurances obtained at negotiations, are
acceptable to the Association: (a) the project unit would prepare, by July 1,
1980, standard civil works contract documents which, after approval by the
Association, would be used for all project civil works; (b) bids would be
evaluated in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines; and (c) for civil works
contracts estimated to cost US$1 million and above, documents would be
submitted to the Association for review before tender and award. There are
numerous local contractors capable of executing the required works.
3.18      Vehicles, Equipment and Materials.  Passenger vehicles,
specifically including four-wheeled vehicles and related trailers (US$2.3
million), motorcycles (US$1.8 million), and bicycles (US$0.2 million), would
be procured locally and financed entirely by Government because of a ban on
importation. Office and technical equipment and mobile extension units
worth a total of US$2.5 million would be procured under international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines, and
would be grouped in large enough contract packages to attract international
competition. A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported
goods, or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local
manufacturers of such items in the evaluation of bids. Extension materials
(US$2.0 million), boats and horses (US$0.5 million), and simple agricultural
tools, extension and office equipment, and furniture not suited for
international procurement (US$1.2 million) would be procured through local
competitive bidding procedures. Certain proprietary extension material
items, such as standard textbooks, journal subscriptions and rental films,
worth a total of US$0.5 million, would be procured directly from domestic or
international authorized suppliers where only one source is available, or on
the basis of competitive quotations where this option exists, after prior
approval by the Association. Assurances were obtained that all contracts
for equipment and materials exceeding US$200,000 in value would be
submitted to the Association for review before bidding and award.
/1 All contract values presented in this section are expressed in base costs
in beginning 1980 currency values.



- 26 -
Disbursements
3.19      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against foreign
expenditures for directly imported materials and equipment; 95% of ex-factory
costs for locally manufactured materials and equipment; and 65% of total costs
for locally procured imported materials and equipment. Disbursements for
civil works, consultant services, training, fellowships and courses would be
at the rate of 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements for nonroutine
inservice training would be made on the basis of certified summaries of
training courses implemented, which would include (a) the topic, location, and
duration of each course, (b) the service grades and numbers of trainees
completing the course, (c) a certification of this data by the project unit's
chief training coordinator and the Project Director, and (d) a computation of
reimbursable cost derived from the total number of trainee-days for each
course and an agreed reimbursable cost per trainee-day. For calendar 1980,
such reimbursable unit costs are presented in Annex 2, Table 12 (Part A). For
each subsequent year, the unit costs would be updated based on analysis of
current actual costs by the project unit and supervision missions, and the
Association would inform the GOI of revisions in those reimbursable costs to
prevail during the subsequent year. Records of training courses signed by
each trainee upon completion, would be maintained at provincial or local
levels for inspection by project management staff. Estimated schedules of
expenditures and disbursements and the proposed allocation of the proceeds of
the credit are presented in Annex 3.
Accounts and Audits
3.20      Assurances have been obtained that the project unit would maintain a
consolidated project account covering all project expenditures at headquarters
and provincial levels; that auditors acceptable to the Association would audit
such accounts annually; and that the audited financial statements together
with the auditors' comments would be sent to the Association within six months
of the close of each financial year.
4. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The proposed project would be managed at the national level by the
NFCEP project unit, suitably expanded to cope with the increased management,
service, technical, and coordination requirements of the proposed project
(para. 4.02-4.04). The project unit would remain under the jurisdiction of
the DGFCA in the MOA, pending completion of an organizational study aimed at
planning further steps toward unifying agricultural extension services under
AAETE's coordination, discussions between the GOI and the Association on the
recommendations of that study, and their agreement on possible reallocation of
project implementation responsibilities (para. 4.21). Actual field
implementation of the extension program would be the responsibility of the
respective provincial food crops agricultural departments, as under the NFCEP.



- 27 -
National Level
4.02      The present project unit, situated in a large complex of MOA
agencies in the Jakarta suburb of Pasar Mllinggu, is too small to adequately
manage the wide range of functions and services required by the NFCEP, and
will require additional well selected full time staff to effectively manage
the proposed second project. The unit currently includes only 15
professional positions, of which only 9 are filled on a full-time basis
(Chart 21340). Given the obvious constraint imposed, the unit has
concentrated its efforts on supervising the implementation of the training
and visit system in the field, through a demanding schedule of field visits
by the Project Director and his four Assistants (para. 2.13).
Administrative functions have, however, suffered considerably from the
shortage of staff.  Budgets have not been submitted in time, in the absence
of budget officers; few training courses have been arranged for incoming
staff, in the absence of a training section; an inadequate volume of
extension materials has been acquired, produced, and distributed; tendering
of civil works has been delayed and long delays in paying contractors have
delayed occupation and use of completed RECs. In most cases these
deficiencies have not been due to poor staff performance,/l but rather to
the lack of full-time administrative staff responsible for these functions.
Also, in the early stages of the program the major task has been the
recruitment and organization of field staff, largely a provincial
responsibility. However, the upgrading and training of that staff and the
introduction of new technical packages for nonfood crop subsectors will
definitely require an expanded administrative apparatus which would
guarantee the efficient and timely provision of training, facilities,
equipment, extension materials, staff and operational funds to the
provincial departments. Additional staff are also required to coordinate
activities with such cooperating agencies as AAETE, AARD, DGT and the other
line Directorates General in MOA.
4.03      Effective management of the proposed project would require a total
of ten senior level staff below the Project Director including six Assistant
Directors who would be responsible for supervision of field extension imple-
mentation, to cope with the increased number of provinces (Chart 21340)./2
In addition, one Division Chief would plan and direct the extension program
for transmigration areas, liaising with DGT. A Division Chief for technical
support would handle the programming of extension operations (including the
introduction of new subsectors on a district basis), training programs,
/1 The few full-time administrative staff available have, on the contrary,
performed quite competently.
/2 Each of the six regional Assistant Directors would be responsible for
supervising 4 or 5 provinces, as under the NFCEP.



- 28 -
the preparation of extension materials (coordinated with AAETE), and the
derivation and updating of technical agricultural extension recommendations
(coordinated with AARD). A Division Chief for administration would manage the
procurement,/1 personnel and general services and logistics functions.
Finally, a senior level Treasurer would be responsible for disbursement and
accounting operations. There would be a meshing of responsibility between the
regional Assistant Directors and functional (transmigration, technical
support, and administration) Division Chiefs in that the former would
follow-up implementation of functional guidelines and programs at provincial
and lower levels. To promote coordination with other agencies, it is
recommended that the Division Chief for transmigration coordination be
seconded to the project from the DGT, and that the two additional regional
Assistant Directors be seconded from the Directorates General of Estate Crops
and Livestock.
4.04      Below the Division Chiefs for technical support, administration and
finance (Treasurer), eight specialized sections (for programming, technical
aspects, training, procurement, general services, logistics, disbursement and
accounting) would be created, headed and staffed by full-time professional
employees. A small internal audit section would also be formed, reporting
directly to the Project Director. With the Project Director, the total staff
complement of the central project unit would comprise 50 professional and 32
support staff. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that the Govern-
ment would establish these positions, and use its best efforts to fill them
on a fulltime basis, by July 1, 1980.
4.05      To assist in coordinating the extension program with related
activities, particularly the food crop research programs of the Central
Research Institute for Agriculture under AARD and the agricultural education
and training programs of AAETE, an Advisory Working Group was established as
a steering ccmmittee for the NFCEP. The committee is chaired by the
Director General of AAETE, and currently includes the Directors General of
AARD and Food Crops Agriculture, other senior officials of DGFCA and BIMAS,
the NFCEP Project Director, and the provincial coordinators of the Mlinistry
of Agriculture (para. 2.05) from the participating provinces. M4embership of
the Advisory Working Group would be broadened under the proposed project to
include the other line Directors General in the MOA, and the Director
General of Transmigration. Under successive decrees by the Minister of
Agriculture, coordination committees have been initiated at provincial and
lower levels to coordinate the work of provincial estate crops, livestock,
fisheries, and forestry departments with that of the provincial food crops
agriculture departments implementing the ongoing and proposed extension
programs. At the local level, this kind of steering committee would perform
/1 Full operational responsibility for procurement would thus be trans-
ferred from DGFCA senior management to the project unit itself.



- 29 
the vital function of ensuring close operational links between the extension
PPL, permanently visiting and advising a specific population of farmers, and
the development and service staff of the other agencies, who have only
occasional contact with most villages or groups of farmers. Close coopera-
tion at this level would extend the reach and efficiency of specialized
programs such as tree crop replanting, artificial insemination and livestock
breeding, and reafforestation, as the extension PPLs under the training and
visit system can reach most farmers in their locality and provide feedback
within any given two-week period.
Field Level
4.06      Expansion of the extension program to the 13 new provinces would
follow the pattern established under the NFCEP, with the respective Inspectors
of Food Crops Agriculture assuming overall responsibility for introduction of
the training and visit system in their provinces and for recruitment of agreed
numbers of extension staff, and day-to-day management of extension staff by
the extension bureaus at provincial level and extension sections at residency
and district levels. Based on their considerable experience in implementing
/1 and guiding the introduction of the training and visit system in the NFCEP
provinces, the Project Director and regional Assistant Directors would advise
and guide the Inspectors and extension units in the new provinces on the
methodological and organizational requirements of the system.
4.07      At provincial level a total of 5,041 additional PPLs would be
required to serve the areas of settled agriculture raising the national
total to slightly over 15,400. A total of 1,038 additional PPMs would also
be required in the settled areas, to achieve a uniform ratio of two PPMs at
each REC and District extension office, giving a national total of about
2,600. In addition, transmigration schemes currently in the operational or
advanced preparation phase would require 159 additional PPLs /2 and 82 PPMs
(Annex 4, Table 4). As PPMs are not recruited directly, but are selected
for promotion from among the more experienced and successful PPLs, a total
of 6,320 new PPLs would have to be recruited over the five-year project
period by the respective provincial departments of food crops agriculture.
As this represents a smaller total than was successfully recruited and
assimilated under the NFCEP, and as accredited agricultural high schools are
increasing their output of graduates with PPL qualifications, these staffing
targets are achievable.
/1 The current Project Director and three of his four Assistants were pre-
viously senior provincial managers in major NFCEP provinces, and were par-
ticularly successful in managing field extension in their areas.
/2 Existing PPL agricultural assistants on the payroll of DGT would be trans-
ferred to the project establishment and progressively upgraded to DGFCA
qualifications.



- 30 -
4.08      A total of 598 additional PPSs would be recruited under the project,
including 24 PPSs to serve transmigration scheme areas (Annex 4, Table 4), and
for settled areas, 207 for food crops (Annex 4, Table 2), 139 for livestock,
146 for estate crops, 38 for freshwater fisheries, and 44 for soil conserva-
tion and reforestation (Annex 4, Table 3). Calculation of the staffing
requirements for PPSs has not assumed the appropriation by the project of
existing field staff of provincial departments other than the provincial units
of DGFCA. The other provincial field staff have important activities related
to development and regulatory programs, and are not free to leave their pro-
grams and installations for full-time participation in the training and visit
system of extension without damaging the effectiveness of their already over-
worked and undermanned units.  PPS requirements for transmigration areas were
assessed at one per province, with an additional PPS for provinces with more
than 7,500 transmigrant families (15 PPLs).  They will be based in the largest
transmigration schemes in their provinces, traveling to the others on fixed
biweekly schedules.  PPS requirements for livestock, estate crops, and
freshwater fisheries are based on conceptual models of specialized smallholder
producers /1 handling given numbers of animals or areas of crops or ponds
sufficient to provide a livelihood, and the best available estimates of total
smallholder assets in those subsectors (Annex 1, Tables 1-2). Aside from
providing a rational basis for total PPS requirements, those calculations
provide indicative guidelines for eventual specialization of PPSs by dominant
animal groups and crops, by province (Annex 4, Table 3). Most of the
commodity specialized PPSs would be based in districts where the respective
activities predominate, except in cases where only one subsector PPS is
allocated to a province, in which case he would be based at provincial head-
quarters. Additional food crop PPS requirements (Annex 4, Table 2) were based
on the traditional DGFCA procedure of placing one PPS in each district, four
in each residency, and five at provincial level (para. 4.10)./2 By project
completion, the final complement of extension PPSs would total 1,019, of whom
628 would be specialized in food crops.
4.09      Recruitment of qualified university agricultural graduates to fill
PPS positions, particularly in the more remote regions of the Other Islands,
/1 Smallholders in Indonesia are rarely specialized; this approach was
used only for calculation and allocation purposes.
/2 If during the course of project implementation it becomes apparent
that PPS distributions do not permit the regular training and briefing
of all PPLs by PPSs, two forms of reallocation of PPSs would be called
for: within provinces, from provincial and residency offices to district
offices, and between provinces, from the more sparsely populated to the
more heavily populated provinces.



- 31 -
would be somewhat more difficult than recruitment of lower level staff, al-
though again the NFCEP has met its PPS staffing targets on schedule. Provi-
sion of housing for 134 PPSs in remote settled areas and for the 24 assigned
to transmigration schemes should operate as an inducement to attract staff.
Also, the pro.ramming of extension operations in the new, more sparsely popu-
lated provinces, to first establish the food crops extension system before
gradually introducing the other subsectors (para. 3.03), means that
recruitment and placement of PPSs would naturally be phased over a longer
period of time than that of PPLs and PPMs.
4.10      In most of the NFCEP provinces, a traditional system of organizing
food crop PPSs has been followed, placing five in provincial headquarters,
specialized in the aspects of crop production, crop protection, soil/water
relationships, agricultural economics, and planning, and four in residency
offices, organized similarly. The drawback to this approach has been the
overconcentration of scarce PPS staff in basically administrative offices
and a diminution in the numbers routinely handling the training of PPLs in
the RECs and responding to field problems. To minimize this drawback and
maximize the usefulness of the concentrations of PPSs which do exist, two
changes would be made in their terms of reference:
(a)  PPSs assigned to provincial and residency offices would be collec-
tively responsible for all standard PPS fieldwork in the districts
surrounding the capital cities, including the training of PPLs and
visits to farms and PPL group meetings. As such districts are
often the most populous and agriculturally developed in the
provinces, this would free a substantial number of PPSs for work
in the more remote districts.
(b)  PPSs specialized in crop protection (pest control), soils and
water use, and agricultural economics would be used as resource
staff for all subsectors rather than food crops alone, as much
of their expertise would be immediately useful to the other
subsectors.
Food crops PPSs based in the remaining districts would concentrate entirely
on the agronomic problems of the locally predominant food crops.
4.11      As in the case of PPLs and PPMs-, management of PPSs is the respon-
sibility of the extension sections at district and residency level, the
extension bureaus at provincial level, and ultimately, the Inspectors of Food
Crops Agriculture (para. 4.06). However, as this aspect has been the major
deficiency in field level implementation of the NFCEP (paras. 2.14-2.15),
the Assistant Directors would concentrate on tightening the control and
programming of PPS work under the proposed project. In many districts, one
or more PPSs specialized in nonfood crops subsectors would operate in
conjunction with food crops PPSs. They would have to be formed into a
cooperative team and scheduled to visit specific RECs together on appropriate
training days. From a substantive point of view, the PPSs would jointly



- 32 -
determine local approaches to questions of multiple and inter-cropping,
changes in cropping patterns profitable to the smallholders, and scheduling
of agricultural operations in mixed farms.  The project unit would devise
monthly work schedule formats for PPSs to be refined jointly by the
Assistant Directors and Provincial Inspectors during the former's regular
visits to the provinces. The schedules would be filled in by the heads of
the district extension sections, in consultation with the individual PPSs,
during the monthly PPS review sessions (para 4.13) and monitored through the
diary system introduced for PPLs under the NFCEP (para. 3.11). In their
visits to the field, the Assistant Directors would also make a point of
monitoring adherence by PPSs to their agreed schedules.
Training
4.12      Essentially, four types of staff training would be undertaken
under the project. The first is the continuous routine biweekly training or
briefing of PPLs in the RECs on impact points to be communicated to the
farmer groups during the cycle of visits, which is a basic part of the
training and visit system of agricultural extension and is the functional
responsibility of the PPS (para. 2.14). The second consists of periodic
operational review and preparation sessions by field staff and supervisors
(paras. 4.13-4.14).  The third is the special occasional training required to
introduce staff to new job responsibilities and work methods, and to new
technical subject matter fields (paras. 4.15-4.16). The fourth consists
of degree or certificate courses both in the country and overseas, study
tours abroad for selected staff and farmer leaders, and participation in
workshops, seminars, and conferences (para. 4.17). The latter two types of
training, non-routine in character, would be directly reimbursable under the
proposed credit (Annex 2, Table 12).
4.13      Periodic Review Sessions.  PPSs would attend a one-day review
session once a month at provincial headquarters to be organized by the
Inspector of Food Crops Agriculture and the head of the extension bureau.
Over time these meetings would become core seminars of provincial profes-
sional staff, during which progress would be reviewed, and the REC training
program for the next month planned and prepared. The meetings would also
cover technical subjects, including discussions with researchers from
nearby experiment stations, and would pay particular attention to technical
questions crossing subsectoral lines of specialization, and the introduc-
tion of new subsectoral recommendations in various districts. Project
Assistant Directors would occasionally attend the monthly review sessions
in the provinces they supervise.
4.14      PPSs and provincial and district extension managers would also
take part in two four-day courses per year, to be held at provincial
level before each main cropping season. With the assistance of local
university and research staff, experts from the central national research



- 33 -
institutes for the various subsectors,/1 consultants, and senior project
staff, these meetings would determine and agree on detailed technical
recommendations for individual crops and farming systems in the various
agricultural regions of the province. The scheduling of these recommen-
dations in the overall training and visit cycle would also be reviewed.
Following these courses, similar four-day courses would be held at district
level for the PPLs and PPMs, to provide them with the background required to
understand the applied REC training they will receive during the next
season.
4.15      Special Training Courses.  All newly recruited PPLs would
attend three-week orientation courses/2 concentrated on the training and visit
system and communication techniques, implemented jointly by AAETE, the
project unit, and the provincial departments, and held in AAETE's regional
in-service training centers as available./3   Newly promoted PPMs, would
receive a 15-day orientation course, similarly organized, in the management
and administration of the extension program. In addition, both PPLs and PPMs
working in districts where extension packages for additional subsectors
would be introduced would attend intensive 3-week courses in the appropriate
subsectoral specialty prior to its introduction. In areas distant from
in-service training centers, courses would be held at local research stations.
All these courses would involve field trips to relevant areas.
4.16      All new PPSs would attend a one-month course in extension
methodology which would function as an orientation to their responsibilities
under the training and visit system. The course would be given at the four
major university agricultural faculties/4 and at AAETE's national level
/1  Under the NFCEP the project unit has innovated the use of such local
experts to advise provincial PPS staff on specialized technical matters.
/2  5,500 courses are planned for incremental staff to be recruited under
the proposed project, including a margin for turnover. Funds are
available under Loan 1267-IND to finance such training for all PPLs
recruited under the NFCEP.
/3  AAETE now has 13 such centers (710 seats) for general agricultural and
extension studies, including courses in food and estate crops, livestock,
and inland fisheries. The number would be expanded to 19 centers
(1,140 seats) in 18 provinces under the Second Agricultural Training
Project (Loan 1692-IND).
/4 Located in Bogor, Bandung, Jogjakarta, and Ujung Pandang.



- 34 -
in-service training center at Ciawi. Additional 3-month courses in commod-
ity (major crops, animal groups, etc.) or functional (soils, crop protection,
agronomy, etc.) subspecialties would be given all new PPSs after initial
field experience, to be held at the major universities or the various
central research institutes. Finally, orientation courses of two or three
week duration would be given to provincial and district extension managers,
including selected officers from cooperating non-food crop provincial
departments, to enable them to perform their administrative, program
planning, evaluation, and guidance functions.
4.17      Fellowships and Courses.  Long-term (two-year) fellowships leading
to MSc degrees in technical agricutural fields would be provided to 70
qualified PPS, district, provincial, and headquarters extension staff, 50 to
universities abroad. The purpose of this program would be to upgrade the
overall technical capability of the cadre of extension staff, increasing its
capacity to assimilate the flow of research results from foreign, national,
and local research institutions and to utilize them in refining field
extension recommendations. About 75 short-term (six-month) overseas
fellowships/l would be provided to similarly qualified staff, to upgrade their
technical knowledge of various crops and activities. As the main constraint
on implementation of the overseas fellowship program under the NFCEP has been
the difficulty in selecting candidates possessing both the required degree of
technical competence and a good working knowledge of English, 90 candidates
for overseas training would attend intensive three-month English language
courses. Short courses in other Asian countries where the training and visit
system is being effectively applied (e.g. India, Thailand, Malaysia) or where
smallholder agriculture is progressing extraordinarily well (Korea, Taiwan),
would be provided to 133 field extension workers selected on the basis of
outstanding contributions to the implementation of the extension program in
their areas. Finally, the project would support the participation (travel,
subsistence, fees) of a limited number of project staff in workshops,
seminars, and conferences on agricultural extension and related topics, held
both in Indonesia and abroad.
Consultants
4.18      Consultant technical assistance in direct support of project
implementaton would fall into three categories: general advisory services
to project management, short-term technical assistance in reviewing and
revising extension recommendations for the entire range of smallholder
agricultural activities to be eventually covered by the extension system,
and architecture and design of project civil works (para. 3.13). The first
category would consist of a management advisor (8 mm) who would assist the
Project Director, the Assistant Directors, and the Division Chief for
/1 At such institutions as the International Rice Research Institute in the
Philippines, the Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center in
Taiwan, Malaysia's Rubber Research Institute, etc.



- 35 -
technical support in refining the overall management and supervision functions
of the project unit, concentrating particularly on planning the steps required
to include new subsectors and transmigration areas in the extension system; an
extension advisor (7 mm) who would work with the Division Chief for technical
support, the extension section, and AAETE in upgrading field extension
methods; and a financial advisor (7 mm) with qualifications equivalent to a
chartered accountant with secretarial experience, to assist the Treasurer and
the audit section in improving accounting, financial planning, and control.
The management and extension advisors would also assist the project unit in
refining the monitoring and evaluation program developed and implemented under
the NFCEP with the assistance of local university faculties, which has already
produced conclusions of use in the training and management of extension field
staff. These expatriate advisors would be engaged either individually or
through an international consulting firm. Assurances were obtained that such
consultants, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, would be engaged, under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association, by July 1, 1980.
4.19      The short-term technical agricultural consultants would work with
the extension section under the Division Chief for technical support, and
would be responsible for reviewing in detail conditions of smallholder
production in all major commodity fields in the important agricultural regions
of Indonesia, assessing the relevance of domestic and foreign research results
and practical innovations (e.g. by estates) for upgrading field practices of
smallholders in the various regions, and on this basis would help prepare
practical extension recommendations to be delivered by the extension workers.
To accomplish this task, approximately 23 recognized specialists would be
required over the project period, with each work assignment divided into two
visits of about 2 months' duration each (90 mm total). During the first visit
each consultant would complete his initial review process and prepare interim
recommendations, which would be translated and disseminated by the project
unit. The second visit would assess the effectiveness of the specific
recommendations, in terms of uptake by farmers and probable effects on
production, and result in revised extension recommendations./1 The approach
of each expert would have to be guided towards maximizing financial returns to
individual smallholders rather than maximization of yield per se, and towards
concentration on the most effective, simple, and relatively inexpensive
changes in agricultural practices. Due to the magnitude of the organizational
task involved in selecting, recruiting, and planning the movements of these
consultants, and the importance of obtaining the services of very highly
qualified individuals, they would be primarily engaged through an inter-
national agricultural advisory service or consulting firm./2   First consi-
deration in selection of individual experts would be given to qualified
/1 For longer-term activities (e.g. tree crops) final production effects
would not be known with precision for a decade or longer, but a
longer interval in visits by these specialists would still permit
more knowledge to be gained from research and pilot projects and
early development of the tree crops.
/2 A minimum of 15 specialists would be provided by the organization.



- 36 -
Indonesians although it is expected that a high proportion (about 70%) of
these experts would be expatriate. The projected distribution of the total
technical assistance requirement by field of specialization is given in
Table 4.1. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that an organization
with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association would be
engaged to assist in the selection, recruitment, and supply of services of
technical agricultural consultants, by July 1, 1980.
Table 4.1:  TECHNICAL AGRICULTURAL CONSULTANCY INPUTS
Man-months                                   lian-months
Food Crops                                Estate Crops
Rice                        4             Oil palm                        2
Maize                       6             Coconut                         3
Legumes (2 experts)         8             Rubber                          3
Cassava/sweet                             Coffee/cocoa/tea               3
potato                     6             Sugar                          4
Vegetables                  4             Tobacco                        4
Cloves                         3
Livestock                                   Pepper                          3
Other spices                   3
Cattle/buffaloes            4             Other industrial crops         4
Small ruminants             4
Poultry                     6           Reforestation/Soil
Swine                       2             Conservation                   6
Inland Fisheries
(2 experts)                  8
Total: 90 man-months
4.20      The estimated total costs of the services of the management, exten-
sion, and financial advisors would be US$9,000 per man-month. Based on an
estimated daily rate of US$230, subsistence costs of US$65 per day, average
travel costs of US$2,200, and an average duration of two months per visit, the
services of the expatriate short-term technical agricultural consultants,
would cost US$10,000 per man-month. Services of individually recruited
expatriate experts for the organization study (para. 4.21) are estimated to
cost US$7,000 per man-month.  Total costs of services of individual local
experts are estimated at US$3,000 per man-month while costs of local engine-
ering firm services are estimated at 7% of the value of civil works. Cost
estimates for technical assistance inputs are presented in Annex 2, Table 13,
while consultant services for the organization study are costed in Annex 7,
Table 1.



- 37 
4.21      Organization Study.  In addition to the above, individual
consultants acceptable to the Association would be engaged to undertake a
one-year study to develop recommendations for strengthening and improving the
organization and management of agricultural extension services in Indonesia,
with particular reference to strengthening the role of AAETE (Annex 7). A
wide variety of organizational arrangements have been established in recent
years to ensure effective implementation of specific programs and projects in
the field of agricultural extension, including those underlying the NFCEP and
the present project. The Government has expressed some concern that while
these arrangements have been individually successful, they have resulted in a
fragmented overall organizational structure, diverging quite widely from
certain basic Government policy guidelines, including the progressive
establishment of a unified extension service at central, provincial, district,
and field levels under the leadership of AAETE. As the present project for
the first time would support extension for all agricultural subsectors
(including transmigration) throughout Indonesia under a single management
unit, it is seen as the proper vehicle for a study of the desirable permanent
organizational pattern for all extension activities in Indonesia, resulting in
specific recommendations for organizational improvements at all administrative
levels and for all aspects of extension management, including budgeting and
finance, programming, staff planning and allocation, procurement, preparation
of technical agricultural recommendations and links with research, and
particularly, recruitment, training, payment, assignment, daily supervision
and evaluation, and promotion of extension field staff. A team of four
experts and two research assistants would study possible reorganization of
these functions, bearing in mind both potential benefits and costs (in terms
of disruption of existing patterns) and recommend the phasing of desirable
changes in interim and final reports to both the Government and the
Association, following which the Government would exchange views with the
Association on the study recommendations and the proposed phasing of their
implementation. Any change in organizational responsibility for the present
project would be made as mutually agreed by the Government and the
Association. Assurances regarding the above were obtained at negotiations.
Recurrent Costs
4.22      An assessment has been made of the impact of the project and
related buildups of staff, facilities, equipment, and levels of activity on
budgets for agricultural extension activities during and beyond the project
period. Estimated recurrent expenditures on extension, by the NFCEP Project
Unit, the DGFCA, and the provincial food crops agricultural departments was
US$12e4 million in 1979 (Annex 4, Table 7) in current prices, of which
US$9.9 million (80%) was for salaries and allowances (Annex 4, Table 6).



- 38 -
Recurrent costs are expected to stabilize at about US$26.2 million (in early
1980 currency values) in 1985, after project completion, of which US$20.4 mil-
lion (78%) would consist of salaries and allowances.  This level of spending
is both within the fiscal capability of the GOI, and at US$1.50 per small-
holder family per annum, quite modest in cost for such a basic service.
Environmental Effects
4.23      The only foreseeable significant environmental impact of the
project would be a positive one, the introduction of extension recommend-
ations in the field of soil conservation and reforestation in districts
where erosion due to agricultural practices is a major problem.
Role of Women
4.24      Although almost all farmer participants in PPL:farmer group
meetings in the NFCEP provinces to date have been men, the extension system
is essentially neutral regarding the role of women in smallholder agricul-
ture. A surprisingly high proportion, estimated at 15%, of the PPLs
engaged under the NFCEP, are women, and the beneficial changes in farm
practices most frequently credited to the NFCEP extension effort thus far,
relating to changes to new pest resistant high-yielding rice varieties and
improvements in transplanting methods, have actually been put into practice
by women in the fields, despite the fact that most direct communication
by extension workers (i.e. other than through demonstration plots, leaflets,
and film shows) has been with their husbands.
5. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Production Targets and Extension Packages
5.01      Assessments have been made of the main constraints on smallholder
yields of the more important crops and products, the key points for emphasis
in extension, present average yields, agronomically feasible smallholder
yields, and expected yields with extension, which are in each case assumed
to be far below what could be achieved with intensive, area and commodity-
specific development programs./l These assessments are presented in working
papers in the project file (references C.4, C.5 and C.6 in Annex 6), and
summarized in Annex 5, Table 1. In many cases constraints are identified in
areas outside the purview of the extension effort, for example the develop-
ment of new varieties by the research establishments and improvements in
marketing and credit arrangements and price policies. In most cases,
/1   This work was initiated primarily to assess the potential impact of the
project. Refinement of operational extension recommendations would
require detailed investigation by commodity specialists, which would be
significantly assisted by consultant inputs under the project
(para. 4.19).



- 39 -
however, yield increases profitable to the smallholder are possible with
improved agricultural technique alone even under present institutional
arrangements and with varieties currently available. This project would
concentrate on achieving those yield increases.
Benefit Estimation
5.02      The proposed project is difficult to assess economically for several
reasons. First, its implementation and impact would be dispersed throughout
all areas of Indonesia where agriculture is practiced, and across the entire
range of smallholder agricultural activity. Secondly, achievement of
benefits in every area or subsector depends on many factors which are
difficult to project, includirig the accuracy and efficiency of current and
future research results and extension recommendations, and the degree and
speed of uptake of recommendations by farmers. Finally, it is difficult to
separate the effects of extension from those of research, improved inputs,
weather trends, changes in relative prices and marketing systems, general
improvements in literacy and access to mass media, and programs of
investment in transport, agricultural and irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, an attempt has been made to estimate an indicative economic
rate of return for the project based on an identification of certain key
parameters which would govern project impact and by projecting conservative
though reasonable values for those parameters (Annex 5, Table 2).
5.03      Potential Incremental Yields.  First, the assessment of the poten-
tial impact of the project was narrowed to the estimation of yield increases
for certain major commodities produced widely throughout Indonesia, which
would be readily amenable to production increases through improved extension,
and for which some micro-level data is available. These include the major
food crops (rice, maize, groundnuts, soybeans and cassava), rubber and
coconuts among the tree crops, freshwater pond fish, and poultry for meat
and eggs. In the long run the project would also stimulate production of
other crops not accounted for here, particularly fruit, vegetables and sweet
potatoes among the food crops; coffee, cloves, sugar, tobacco, cocoa,
pepper, and other spices among the commercial crops; and beef, mutton and
pork production in the livestock subsector. But these activities are
typically concentrated in certain limited regions, are fairly capital-
intensive, or will require a combination of extension and other programs
(credit, processing, etc.) to achieve substantial results. For the selected
representative crops, a potential incremental yield was estimated based on
the projected impact of extension alone (Annex 5, Table 1), assuming only
relatively simple improvements in cultivation practices and a minimum of
additional purchased inputs, and without major on-farm investments. These
assumed yield increments are far below the genetic potential of existing
varieties and below increases attainable with more intensive specialized
programs.
5.04      Farmer Participation.  Farmer participation in the project was
projected on a model of the actual implementation of extension at field
level, where success or failure depends on the PPL's ability to organize
a group and a visiting schedule, to build close rapport with at least a



- 40 -
minimum number of enthusiastic leading farmers, and to improve their
practices and by demonstration, their neighbors' practices. Based on this
model, three categories of farmers were defined:
(a)  fully participating farmers, following most of the PPL's
recommendations and achieving 100% of the potential yield
increment discussed above.  It is estimated that
2 farmers in each farmer group (totalling between 50 and
100 farmers) would fall into this category, equivalent to
32 farmers per PPL in cases where the PPL handles 16
farmer groups;
(b) partially participating farmers, who follow many of the
recommendations of the PPL and achieve 50% of the potential
yield increment. It is estimated that 5 farmers in each
group (up to 80 per PPL) would fall into this category;
and
(c) marginally participating farmers, who in general do not
attend meetings and learn new practices from following their
neighbors' examples. About 15 farmers in each group (up to
240 per PPL) would fall into this category, and would attain
about 20% of the potential yield increment.
On the basis of these assumptions, calculation of project benefits is based
on yield increases by about one-third of the farmers served by the project.
5.05      As the entire incremental complement of 5,200 PPLs to be recruited
under this project would engage in food crops extension, the project's impact
on food crop production was calculated using this number and the participation
ratios discussed above. No additional PPLs would be specifically recruited
for other subsectors; rather the project would gradually cover those activi-
ties in addition to food crops through recruitment of specialized PPSs who
would then train the general PPLs in selected areas in the relevant subsector
fields (para. 3.03(b)). A rough estimate was made of the number of general
PPLs who would be actively involved in estate crops, livestock, and inland
fisheries extension based on the number of PPLs in the areas where those sub-
sectors predominate and the numbers of PPSs in those subsectors who would be
made available to train and brief them. Using these estimates of PPLs
actively involved by subsector, and the farmer participation ratios, the
impact of the project on smallholder rubber, coconut, fish and poultry
production /1 was calculated.
/1 In the case of poultry production, the farmer participation rate was
modified to 22 fully participating farmers per farmer group. Almost
all farmers in Indonesia keep some poultry, egg production has increased
at 12% per annum over the past decade demonstrating widespread interest
in this profitable activity, BIMAS poultry programs have been started,
and further impressive production increases can be achieved with a
concerted extension effort.



-41-
5.06      Development Period.  The final incremental production due to the
project is given in Annex 5, Table 2. It is assumed that achievement of
potential incremental yields and production of the representative food crops
and poultry products would require five years, commencing in the year
folloTwing introduction of extension in various districts anc provinces. The
development period for fish production is assumed to be three years, and for
tree crops, ten years. These assumptions are built into the total benefit
stream given in Annex 5, Table 3.
5.07      Prices.  Estimates of farmgate prices for the representative field
and tree crops for 1980 and beyond are based on projections of world prices in
constant 1980 currency values for those commodities. For the local fish and
poultry products, which are generally not internationally traded and for which
long-term price projections are not available, estimates of typical local
farmgate prices have been made for 1980, and these prices have been assumed to
remain constant in real terms over the life of the project. Although the
potential yield increments were derived under the assumption of negligible
increases in input usage, the gross benefits for each commodity presented in
Annex 5, Table 2 have been reduced by 20% in Annex 5, Table 3 to account for
any incremental input usage which may be necessary.
5.08      Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis.  The indicative project
economic rate of return based on the foregoing set of conservative assumptions
is 35%. As the crucial project parameter in an extension project is farmer
participation, sensitivity analysis of the economic impact of the project
concentrated on assessing the impact of reductions in the values for this
parameter given above (para. 5.04). Based on a worst-case scenario of only 1
fully participating farmer, 2 partially participating farmers, and 5 margin-
ally participating farmers per farmer group, representing a total impact on
only about 12% of the farmers in the target population,/l the project would
still yield an economic rate of return of 13%. To account for the possibility
that the multi-sectoral approach, utilizing PPSs under specialized services
to train and brief general PPLs under food crops services, would encounter
serious operational difficulties, a calculation was made based on projected
benefits from food crops extension alone. The resultant rate of return would
still be very high (29%), due to the comparatively rapid response of yields
of annual food crops to improvements in technique. Finally, a rate of return
of 15% would be achieved even if project benefits were limited to improvements
in rice yields alone, due to the importance of this single crop in Indonesian
smallhoider agriculture. In each case substantial potential economic benefits
would be lost, but there appears to be little risk that the project would not
justify itself in economic terms.
5.09      Distribution of Benefits.  In each farmer group, one farmer is
designated by the PPL as a "contact farmer", and approximately 10 farmers
are designated "progressive farmers." As the contact farmer is expected
/1 This scenario is equivalent to reducing expected gross benefits by 60%.



- 42 -
to be the PPL's prime supporter in the village community, to ease his entry
and work with him to engender attendance at meetings and general farmer
participation,/l the PPL quite naturally often selects a prominent member of
the local community (the village headman, or a member of an aristocratic or
leading family) as the contact farmer. Some of the progressive farmers are
also of this class, and the upper classes of village society would thus tend
to constitute a sizeable proportion of the categories of fully and partially
particpating farmers postulated in the economic analysis above. On the
other hand, observation of a large number of group meetings throughout the
NFCEP provinces has also confirmed the enthusiastic participation of
numerous poorer landowners as progressive farmers, and particularly outside
Java, as contact farmers. They also would form the vast bulk of the
marginally participating farmers. This, and the fact that even members of
the village elite in Java often live on incomes below the estimated absolute
poverty level,/2 yields an estimate that 65% of the benefits of the project
would accrue to farmers in the poverty group. The remainder would accrue to
larger farmers, a majority of whom would still earn less than the national
average per capita income (US$360).
6.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement has been reached with the
Government on the following points:
(a)  by April 1, 1980, the GOI would legally assign sufficient land
in the Pasar Mlinggu agricultural complex to construct the
project headquarters (para. 3.08);
(b)  land for all project works would be made available to the
project six months before commencement of work on any contract
package (para. 3.13);
(c)  the project unit would prepare, by July 1, 1980, standard civil
works contract documents which, after approval by the
Association, would be used for all project civil works; bids
would be evaluated in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines;
and, for civil works contracts estimated to cost US$1 millon and
above, documents would be submitted to the Association for
review before award (para. 3.17);
(d)  all contracts for equipment and materials exceeding
US$200,000 in value would be submitted to the Association for
review before bidding and award (para. 3.18).
/1 Including the organization of the farmers to build the small group
meeting shelters with their own labor and materials on their own land.
/2 Equivalent to US$120 per capita per annum in 1979 prices.



- 43 -
(e) the project unit would maintain a consolidated project account
covering all project expenditures at headquarters and provincial
levels; auditors acceptable to the Association would audit such
accounts annually; and the audited financial statements together
with the auditors' comments would be sent to the Association
within six months of the close of each financial year (para. 3.20);
(f) a total of 50 professional and 32 support staff positions in the
headquarters project unit, including those of the Project Director,
6 Assistant Directors, 4 Division Chiefs and staff of 9 functional
sections, would be established, and the Government would use its
best efforts to fill those positions on a full-time basis, by
July 1, 1980 (paras. 4.03-4.04);
(g) consultants, with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association, to advise the project unit in the areas of project
management, field extension methods, and financial planning and
accounting, would be engaged under terms and conditions acceptable
to the Association, by July 1, 1980 (para. 4.18);
(h) an organization with experience and qualifications acceptable to
the Association would be engaged to assist in the selection,
recruitment, and supply of services of technical agricultural
consultants, by July 1, 1980 (para. 4.19); and
(i) the GOI would engage consultants with qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Association to execute the agricultural extension
organization study (Annex 7), furnish to the Association the interim
and final reports of that study within three months of completion,
and exchange views with the Association on the study findings. Any
change in organizational responsibility for the present project
would be made as mutually agreed by the Government and the Associa-
tion (para. 4.21).
6.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of US$42 million. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



ANNEX I
Tab le 1
- 44 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICILTIIRAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Estimates of Smallholder Agricultural Land Use, bv Province, 1977
(1)         (2)             (3)          (4)        (5)         (6)         (7)         (8)         (9)       (10)      (11)
Estimated                          Estimated
area                 Estimated    area       Annual    Popu-
small-                  area       small-      crops   lation
Smallholder      1 total      Number    Estimated   holder    Estimated    other         holder    as I of  density
Total    agricultural    area in    of small-   average    annual           area       annual    perennial  small-        per
area          area      smallholder  holdings   farm  size   crops        wet rice      crops       crops    holder    sq km
(sq km)    ('000 ha)         farms       ('000)        (ha)    (000 ha)  (4000 ha)  ('000 ha)  ('000 ha)   area          (1976)
West Java                46,300       1,810          39          2,650       0.68        1,410      1,160         250         400       78        507
Central Java             34,210       1,890          55          2,960       0.64        1,460        820         640         430       77        689
Jogjakarta                3,170         240          76            360       0.67          200         110         90          40       83        828
East Java                47,920       2,185          46          3,240       0.67        1,730        930         800         455       79        566
DKI Jakarta                 590          18          31             20       0.90           17          15           2           1      94      9,097
Bali                      5,560         300          54            330       0.91          180          95         85         120       60        412
Subtotal          137,750       6,443          47          9,560       0.67        4,997       3,130       1,867       1,446      78        613
North Sumatra            70,790         930          13            900       1.03          480         300         180        450       52        105
West Sumatra             49,780         380           8            450       0.84          260         230          30        120       68         60
Lampung                  33,310         640          19            540       1.19          320         100        220         320       50        103
North Sulawesi           19,020         470          25            240       1.96          180          50         130        290       38        100
South Sulawesi           72,780         760          10            700       1.09          560        310         250         200       74         78
West Nusa Tenggara       20,180         310          15            300       1.03          240         180         60          70       77        119
East Nusa Tenggara       47,880         650          14            390       1.67          420         130        290         230       65         51
Subtotal          313,740       4,140          13          3,520       1.18        2,460       1,300       1,160       1,680      59         84
South Sumatra           103,690         880           8            420       2.10         240         130         110         640       27         37
Aceh                     55,390         430           8            380       1.13          250         210          40        180       58         40
Riau                     94,560         620           7            220       2.82          200         110         90         420       32         19
Jambi                    44,920         520          12            150       3.47          120         80          40         400       23         25
Bengkulu                 21,170         165           8             90       1.83           90          60         30          75       54         27
West Kalimantan         146,760         930           6            300       3.10          540         180        360         390       58         16
South Kalimantan         37,660         330           9            280       1.18         220         190          30         110       67         49
Central Kalimantan    152,600           420           3            110       3.82          200         80         120         220       48          5
East Kalimantan         202,440         100           -             70       1.43           60          30         10          40       60          5
Central Sulawesi         69,730         280           4            145       1.93          120          60         60         160       43         15
Southeast Sulawesi       27,690         145           5            110      1.32            70         10          60          75       48         28
K4aluku                  74,500         260           3            130       2.00           95           2          93        165       37         17
Subtotal        1,031,110       5.080           5          2.405       2.11        2.205       1,142       1,063       2,875      43         18
Irian Jaya             421,980          100           -            150      0.67           35           -          35          65       35        2
Total           1,904,580      15,763           8         15,635       1.00        9,697       5,572       4,125       6,066      62        68
Notes:
1.  Column 1 from Statistical Pocketbook of Indonesia, 1977, in turn calculated by JANTOP (Indonesian Army Map Service).  Estimates of pro-
vincial areas from other sources vary markedly, thus affecting provincial population density estimates.
2.  Column 2 estimated on basis of Annex 1, Table 3 of IBRD Report No. 2374-IND, in turn based on 1973 Agricultural Census and work by
A. Strout to update to 1977, and DGFCA Preparation Report Tables 2-3. Some reconciliation necessary, including attempt to eliminate
areas devoted to shifting cultivation.
3.  Column 3 equals Column 2 divided by Column 1.
4.  Column 4 based on Agricultural Census 1973 (Preparation Report, Table 1), updated to 1977 using provincial population growth rates
(1971-76) given in IBRD Report No. 2378-IND, Annex 1, Table 1.
5. Column 5 equals Column 2 divided by Column 4.
6.  Columns 6-9 based on sources for Column 2.  Column 6 equals Column 7 plus Column 8, while Column 9 plus Column 6 equals Column 2.
Because of intercropping and multiple cropping rotations, Columns 7-9 should be understood to refer to the longest duration or most
likely crop on any plot. Irrigated smallholder sugar included in Column 8, while fruit trees and pastures included in Column 9.
7. Column 10 equals Column 6 divided by Column 2.
8.  Column 11 derived from population data given in Annex 1, Table I of IBRD Report No. 2378-IND, and Column 1.



ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Estimates of Livestock Population
Province             Cattle   Buffalo   Goats   Sheep   Pigs   Horses   Poultry
________________________   ('000)  ------------------------
West Java             119.5    475.2    433.0   795.7    27.1    18.9    14,147
Central Java          925.8    342.2  1,914.4   934.3    84.4    38.7    22,013
East Java           2,588.4    233.3  1,735.4   568.0    49.0    62.4    24,278
Jogjakarta            156.5      18.7    248.2    64.4       9.6     3.9      4,538
North Sumatera        147.7    128.4    180.8    25.0 1,427.7    10.2    12,914
West Sumatara         249.3    105.7    148.9        -        -     21.1      3,804
South Sumatera        132.6      87.0    220.3       -      50.2     2.6      6,397
South Sulawesi        609.4    418.3    399.1    14.7   521.7   190.9    12,453
South Kalimantan       52.3      49.5     40.7    12.7       7.7      -       6,075
Aceh                  326.7    342.7    323.3   111.2        8.5    11.9      7,092
Bali                  337.9      14.4     14.2       -    332.5      6.4      3,117
West Nusatenggara    182.6    187.7    110.6    38.5    14.7    78.4          1,791
West Kalimantan        71.1       1.1     36.9       -    520.7       -       2,619
Riau                   14.8      35.8     80.1       -      37.9      -       2,148
Jambi                  18.6      38.9     37.6    14.6       8.0     0.6      2,379
Bengkulu               33.9      27.3     38.8      9.4      0.2     0.3        414
Lampung               115.3    107.4    498.5    79.9    23.1        0.7    13,323
Central Kalimantan    39.0        3.6     12.1       -    149.8       -       1,408
East Kalimantan         8.3      11.5     41.9      2.2      2.2      -       3,394
North Sulawesi        147.0       1.3    110.3       -    160.8      7.4      1,382
Central Sulawesi      233.1      28.2     40.7    12.7    57.3    13.0        1,157
Southeast Sulawesi    24.7        9.9     41.7      0.1      1.7     8.0        646
East Nusatenggara    381.5    122.0    264.3    63.9   634.3   175.5          1,806
Maluku                 24.6      22.8    116.5      2.2    53.9      2.5        808
Irian Jaya              9.2        -      10.2      0.8   196.6      1.7        418
Jakarta                 4.4       3.1      12.3     4.3    33.4      1.6        662
Total            6,954    2,816    7,111   2,755   4,413        657   151,183



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Prolect Cost Estimate /a
Foreign   Proportion
exchange       of
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   element   base cost
------ Rp billion ---              US$ million -----   ------- (%) --------
1. Civil Works (Annex 2, Table 2)
Facilities in settled areas (Annex 2, Table 3)         5.42      1.80     7.22      8.66      2.89    11.55        25        20
Facilities in transmigration scheme areas
(Annex 2, Table 4)                                  0.89      0.30      1.19      1.43     0.48      1.91       25         04
Headquarters complex (Annex 2, Table 5)                0.08      0.03     0.11      0.13      0.05      0.18       30         -
Subtotal                                          6.39     2.13      8.52    10.22      3-42    13.64        25         24
2.  Passenger Vehicles (reserved procurement)
Four-wheeled vehicles (Annex 2, Tables 6 and 7)    0.15          1.27     1.42      0.24      2.03      2.27       90        04
Motorcycles (Annex 2, Tables 6 and 7)                  0.11      1.03      1.14     0.19      1.63      1.82       90         03
Bicycles and trailers (Annex 2, Tables 6 and 7)    0.03          0.13     0.16      0.05      0.22      0.27       80        01
Subtotal                                          0.29     2.43      2.72      0.48      3.88     4.36       89         08                  I
3.  Materials and Equipment                                                                                                                            a
Extension materials (Annex 2, Table 14)                0.93      0.61     1.54      1.48      0.98      2.46       40        04
Agricultural and office equipment (Annex 2,
Tables 8, 9 and 11)                                  0.40      1.61     2.01      0.64      2.57      3.21       80        06
Miscellaneous transport items (Annex 2,
Tables 6 and 7)                                      0.18      0.45     0.63      0.28      0.72      1.00       72        02
Subtotal                                          1.50     2.67      4.17      2.40      4.27     6.67       64         12
4. Training and Consultants
Nonroutine inservice training (Annex 2, Table 12)  3.23          0.17      3.40     5.16      0.27      5.43       05         09
Fellowships & courses (Annex 2, Table 12)              0.45      0.55     1.00      0.72      0.89      1.61       55        03
Managerial, agricultural and engineering consul-
tants (Annex 2, Table 13)                            0.63     0.52      1.15      1.02      0.83      1.85      45         03
Organization study (Annex 7)                           0.03      0.16     0.19      0.05      0.25      0.30       83        01
Subtotal                                          4.34     1.40      5.74      6.95      2.24     9.19       24         16
5.  Incremental Field Staff (Annex 4, Table 6)               14.24        -    14.24    22.79           -    22.79        0         40
Base costs                                            26.78      8.63    35.41    42.84    13-81    56.65          24        100
Physical contingencies /b                              1.25      0.84      2.09     2.01      1.34      3.35       40         06
Expected price increases (Annex 3, Table 1)           11.81      1.88    13.69    18.91       3.00    21.91        14         39
Total                                            39.84    11.35    51.19    63.76    18-15    81.91          22        145
/a  All estimates in beginning 1980 prices and based on exchange rate of US$ - Rp 625.                                                                 | 
lb 10% of all items except incremental field staff.



- 47 -ANINEX 2
Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Summary of Construction Costs
Foreign
Base costs    exchange
(US$)         (
1. Facilities in Settled Areas (Annex 2, Table 3)
Construction of new Rural Extension Centers         4,836,000        25
Major rehabilitation of RECs constructed
prior to NFCEP                                       60,000        15
Expansion of RECs constructed under NECEP           4,302,000        25
Fencing, site development and access roads
for RECs                                         1,473,000        30
Minor upgrading of old RECs                             8,200        10
PPS housing in settled areas                          872,340        15
Subtotal                                     11,551,540        25
2. Facilities in transmigration scheme areas
(Annex 2, Table 4)                                 1,907,860        25
3.  Headquarters complex (Annex 2, Table 5)                 184,500        30
Total                                        13,643,900        25



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Construction program - Settled Areas
(Numbers of units)
1980                              1981                               1982                               Total
A    B    C    D    E    F    A    B    C    D    E    F    A    B    C    D    E    F    A    B    C    D    E    F
West Java                          -    -    -    -    -    -                 -    -    -    8    - 149    45   37    -    8    - 149    45   37    -
Central Java              -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   31    -   52   31    -    -   31    -   52   31    -    -
Jogjakarta                -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    7    -    6    7    -    -                   7    -    6    7    -    -
East Java                 -    -    -    -    -    -                 -     -     -             22    -   57   43   21    -   22    -   57   43   21    -
North Sumatera            -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   41    -   31   41    -    9   41    -   31   41    -    9
West Sumatera             -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   16    -   21   18    2    5   16    -   21   18    2    5
South Sumatera            -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -                            20    -   18   21       1    8   20    -   18   21         1    8
South Kalimantan          -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   18    3    3    8    -    -   18    3    3    8
South Sulawesi            -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   22    -   37   26    4   15   22    -   37   26    4   15
Bali                      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   24    -    -    -    -    -   24    -    -    -
Nusa Tenggara Barat       -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    3    -   32    3    -    6    3    -   32    3    -    6
Aceh                      -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   26    -    -    8    -    -   26    -    -    8
West Kalimantan           -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    4    -   28    4    -    7    4    -   28    4    -                       7
Lampung                   -    -    -    -    -    -   36    -   15/aS5             -     3    -    -    -    -    -    -   36    -   15/a 51    -    3                         41
Jambi                    13     1    -   14       1    6    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   13                1    -   14      1    6
Riau                     23    -    -   23    -    6    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   23    -    -   23    -    6
Bengkulu                 13    -    -   13    1    3    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -   13    -    -   13                      1    3
Central Kalimantan        -    -    -    -    -    -    6    3    -    9    5    8    -    -    -    -    -    -    6    3    -    9    5    8
East Kalimantan           -    -    -    -    -    -    9    -    -    9    -    6    -    -    -    -    -    -    9    -    -    9    -    6
North Sulawesi            -    -    -    -    -    -   20    4    -   24    4    4    -    -    -    -    -    -   20    4    -   24    4    4
Central Sulawesi          -    -    -    -    -    -   19    -    -   19    -    4    -    -    -    -    -    -   19    -    -   19    -    4
Southeast Sulawesi        -    -    -    -    -    -   13    -    -   13    -    4    -    _-    -    -                      -   13    -    -   13    -    4
Maluku                    -    -    -    -    -    -   18    -    -   18    -    4    -    -    -    -    -    -   18    -    -   18    -    4
Nusa Tenggara Timor    -    -    -    -    -    -   39    -    -   39    3   12    -    -    -    -    -    -   39    -    -   39                         3   12
Irian Jaya                -    -    -    -    -    -    9    -    -    9    -    8    -    -    -    -    -    -    9    -    -    9    -    8
Jakarta                   -    -    -    -    -    -    8    -    -    8    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    8    -    -    8    -    -
49     1    -   50    2   15  177        7   15  199   12   53  174    -  499  242   68   66  400              8  514  491   82  134
/a  Existing RECs in Lampung were financed with Japanese aid, and constructed to standard NFCEP specifications.
Notes:
1.  Column A - Construction of new Rural Extension Centers, at 130 sq m/unit x $93/sq m.
2.  Column B - Major rehabilitation of RECs constructed prior to NFCEP, at 150 sq m/unit x $50/sq m.
3.  Column C - Expansion of RECs constructed tinder NFCEP, at 90 sq m/unit x $93/sq m.
4.  Column D - Fencing, site development, and access roads for RECs, at $3,000 unit.
5.  Column E - Minor upgrading of old RECs, at $100/unit.                                                                                                                    F 
6.  Column F - PPS housing in settled areas, at 70 sq m/unit x $93/sq m.                                                                                                     (DX 



- 49 -                           ANNEX 2
Table 4
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Transmigration Areas
Construction Program
Area per     Unit          Total
No. of     unit        cost          cost
units     (sq m)       (US$)         (US$)
Rural Extension Centers
Construction /a             41         130       93/sq m       495,690
Site development/
access roads              41                 1,325/unit       54,325
Fencing                     41                 1,675/unit       68,675
Housing
PPL (127 current +
159 additional)          286          36       93/sq m       957,528
PPM /b                      41          46       93/sq m       175,398
PPS                         24          70       93/sq m       156,240
Total Cost                                               $1,907.856
/a Including housing for one PPM at each REC. For ease of implemen-
tation, five RECs in transmigration areas in Jambi Province would be
financed under the Transmigration II Project (Loan 1707-IND), along
with housing for 2 PPSs, 10 PPMs and 81 PPLs.
/b Separate housing for additional PPMs working at the 41 RECs financed
under this project.



- 50                           ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
New Project Headquarters Office
Quantity and Cost Estimates
Unit Area                Total area
(sq m)     Number         (sq m)
Director's Office                      20           1 Ia        20
Meeting Room                           40           1           40
Professional staff offices             12         49 /a        588
Consultants' & visiting
staff offices                        12          5            60
Secretaries' & clerks' workspace
(open plan)                           7         32           224
Stores (at 10% of above)                                        93
Halls, stairs and passages
(at 20% of above)                                            205
Total area                                                 1,230
Total cost (at US$150/sq m):                            $184,500
/a From Chart 20656R.



- 51 -                              ANNEX 2
Table 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Vehicle List
Unit      Total
Vehicle types, placement and ratios                    Numbers    cost        cost
------ (USS) --
Four-Wheeled Vehicles
Project Supervision /a
2 x 13 provincial offices (additional
provinces)                                           26
I x 70 district offices (additional districts)         70
PPS Extension Activities /b
2 x 13 provincial offices (additional
provinces)                                           26
I x 86 agricultural development areas (all
provinces)                                           86
1 x 70 district offices (additional districts)         70
Subtotal                                        278    8,150    2,265,700
Motorcycles
New PPLs (at least 25% of total)                      1,300
New PPMs (100% of total)                              1,120
New PPSs without access to field vehicles or
boats                                                 180
Subtotal                                      2,600      700/c  1,820,000
Other Reserved Procurement Vehicles
Bicycles (PPLs)                                       3,900        60       234,000
Trailers (1 x 70 district offices)                        70      535        37,450
Total, vehicles to be provided through
reserved procurement                                   4,357,150
Transport Items to be Financed by the Credit
Horses (PPLs)                                           430       135        58,000
Motorboats (PPSs, PPMs, PPLs)                            325    1,500/d    487,500
Mobile extension units (1 x 13 additional pro-
vinces)                                                 13   35,000       455,000
Subtotal                                                         1,000,500
Grand Total, Transport Items                                     5,357,650
/a  These vehicles would be operated under the supervision of logistics officers
as true motor pools, with logs for official use, to serve headquarters and
provincial staff on field supervision visits, staff from cooperating agen-
cies on project business, visiting consultants and PPSs.
/b  These vehicles would be used solely by PPSs on extension-related activities.
/c  Estimated price reflects a mix of 125 cc motorcycles ($850) for users trav-
elling longer distances in areas with passable roads and 90 cc ($600) and
smaller cycles for short-distance, in-city, and cross-country use and female
officers.
/d  Estimated price reflects a mix of boat types from the simplest powered din-
ghies ($500) to speedboats with large outboard engines ($4,000), with selec-
tion dependent on varying local conditions and distances travelled.



- 52-                                ANNEX 2
Table 7
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Schedule of Vehicle Provision /a
Total
Types                      numbers      1980   1981   1982  1983  1984
Four-wheeled vehicles, supervision           96         96       -      -      -    -
Four-wheeled vehicles, PPSs                 182          -      60     60    40   22
Subtotal                               278         96     60      60    40   22
Motorcycles                               2,600        350    700    800   670   80
Bicycles                                  3,900      1,000  1,200  1,200   500    -
Trailers                                     70         70       -      -      -    -
Horses                                      430        100    150    150    30    -
Motorboats                                  325         50    100    100    75    -
Mobile extension units                       13          -      13      -      -    -
/a  Based on ratios and standards presented in Annex 2, Table 6, estimated
schedules of staff buildup (Annex 4), and the principle of providing vehi-
cles for staff in the fiscal year in which they are recruited.



- 53 -                                  ANNEX 2
Table 8
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Basic REC Equipment Package
Total    Units    Units   Unit        Total
Basis            units    under    under   cost          cost
of supply         required  NFCEP   NAEP II  (US$)  (US$'000)
Desks                 2 per REC            2,240    1,290       950      60         57
Chairs                1 per PPM + PPL   18,500   10,244   8,256          20        165
Cupboards             2 per REC            2,240    1,290       950    180         171
Book rack             1 per REC            1,120       645      475      80         38
Cardex                2 per REC            2,240    1,290       950    180         171
Black board           1 per REC            1,120       645      475      50         24
Pressure lamp         3 per REC            3,360    1,935   1,425        24         34
Typewriters           1 per REC            1,120       645      475    200          95
Calculators           3 per REC            3,360    1,935   1,425        17         24
Slide projectors    1 per REC              1,120       645      475    332         158
Cassette recorder   1 per REC              1,120         -   1,120    100          112
Transistor radio    1 per REC              1,120       645      475      80         38
Generator             1 per REC            1,120       645      475    518         246
Megaphone             3 per REC            3,360    1,935   1,425        33         47
Mistblowers           2 per REC            2,240    1,290       950    126         120
Hand sprayers         10 per REC          11,200    6,450   4,750        30        143
Hand dusters          10 per REC          11,200    6,450   4,750        17         81
Insect nets           10 per REC          11,200    6,450   4,750        13        62
Measuring cylinder  10 per REC            11,200    6,450   4,750         8         38
Light trap            1 per REC            1,120       645      475      43         20
Scales 50 kg          1 per REC            1,120       645      475      56         27
Household scale       1 per REC            1,120       645      475      10          5
Soil auger            I per REC            1,120       645      475      66         31
Farm tool set         3 per REC            3,360    1,935   1,425        66         94
Tool kit              1 per REC            1,120       645      475      66         31
Rain gauge            1 per REC            1,120       645      475      60         29
Spring scale 25 kg  1 per PPL             15,600    8,954   6,646         2         13
Measuring tape        1 per PPL           15,600    8,954   6,646        13         86
Magnifying glass    1 per PPL             15,600    8,954   6,646         2         13
Hand counter          1 per PPL           15,600    8,954   6,646         3         20
Chart board           75% of PPL          11,700    6,718   4,982        17         85
Flip chart frame    75% of PPL            11,700    6,718   4,982        17         85
Meeting table         4 per REC            4,480    1,058   3,422        80        274
Total                                                                      2,643



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Numbers and Cost of Specialized Extension and Demonstration Packages
at Rural Extension Centers (RECs) /a
Subsector             Package           Unit cost   No. of RECs        Total cost
Rp'000
Estate crops          Rubber              690,000        156               107,640
Coffee              200,000        194                38,800
Cacao                30,000         10                   300
Sugarcane            30,000         41                 1,230
Essential oil        10,000         13                   130
148,100
Livestock             Refrigeration        84,000        150                12,600
Misc. equipment      20,000        650                13,000
Poultry dems.
(on farm)         70,000         144                10,080
35,680
Fisheries             Equipment           377,000         60                22,620
Demonstrations
(on farm)        250,000           8                 2,000
24,620
Soil conservation   Demonstrations
(on farm)         50,000         205                10,250
Total                                                              218,650
(US$350,000)
/a See Annex 2, Table 10 for detailed breakdown.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Table 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Specialized Extension and Demonstration Packages
at Rural Extension Centers
Number required    Cost per unit
per package            (Rp)
ESTATE CROPS
1. Rubber
(a)  Templates for marking panels                   10                  5,000
(b)  Bank thickness gauge                           10                 20,000
(c)  Tapping knives                                 10                 10,000
(d)  Budding (occulasi) knives                      10                 10,000
(e)  Secateins                                       10                15,000
(f)  Cup hangers, wire                              10                  1,000
(g)  Cups                                           10                  3,000
(h)  Spouts                                         10                     500
(i)  Plastic tape for budding, rolls                10                  1,000
(j)  Sharpening stone                                10                 4,000
Total                                                        69,500
Total per 10 units                                         690,500
2. Coffee
(a) Drying floor, hardcore and concrete
10 m x 10 m                                   1                200,000
3. Cacao
(a)  Tree injection instrument                        1                30,000
4. Sugarcane
(a)  Test instrument  BRIX for grid use              1                30,000
5. Essential Oil Plants
(a)  Kacip knife                                     1                 10,000



ANNEX 2
- 56                               Table 10
Page 2
Number required    Cost per unit
per package            (Rp)
LIVESTOCK
(a)  Refrigeration, kerosene (solar)                1                 84,000
(b) Miscellaneous, for PPLs in livestock
areas                                        1                 20,000
(c) Fund for poultry demonstration/training
(air gun)                                    1                70,000
FISHERIES
1.  For PPLs
(a)  Hapu net (12 m x 1 m x 1 m)                    6                  6,220
(b)  Cotton, pieces                                10                  1,866
(c)  Plastic bowl (50 cm)                          10                  1,244
(d)  Funnel (50 mm)                                10                  1,244
(e)  Casting net                                    5                  6,220
(f)  Plastic bags                                  15                    820
(g)  Oxygen tank                                    3                 10,600
(h)  Plastic rope, meter                           50                    400
(i)  Hoe                                            5                  2,050
(j)  Sickle                                         5                  4,130
(k)  Spade                                          5                  4,130
(1)  Canework containers                           10                  1,244
(m)  Portable ph meter                               1               124,600
(n)  Filter paper                                  10                  1,244
Cost of package in numbers specified                            377,000
2. Demonstrations (on farm)
(a)  Fishponds (in selected areas)                                   250,000
SOIL CONSERVATION
1. Demonstrations (on farm)
(a) Funds for demonstrations in
41 kabupaten (est. 205 RECs) unit cost    1                    50,000



- 57 -                               ANNEX 2
Table 11
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Provincial and District Extension Office Packages
Total       Units      Units       Unit         Total
units       under      under       cost         cost
required    NFCEP    NAEP II        (US$)      (US$'000)
Provincial Offices
Photocopier               26            13         13       3,055           40
Duplicator                26            13         13          797          10
Camera                    26            13         13          266           3
Cassette recorder         26            13         13          100           1
Slide projector           26            -         26           322           8
Subtotal                                                              62
District Offices
Duplicator               233/a         167         66          797          53
Camera                   233          167          66          166          11
Movie projector          233           167         66          508          34
Overhead projector       233          167          66          266          18
pH meter                 233          167          66           17           1
Moisture meter           233           167         66          166          11
Soil test kit            233          167          66           33           2
Cassette recorder        233             -       233           100          23
Subtotal                                                             153
Total                                                                215
/a The four districts in the Special District of Jakarta would be served
from the central provincial office.



- 58 -                                         ANNEX 2
Table 12
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Nonroutine Training Cost Estimates
Typical        Total         Unit cost        Total cost
Type of training                                           duration      trainees          (tSS)            (US$)
Per trainee day
A.  Inservice Training-Institutional
1.  PPL orientation training                          21 days          5,500              8            924,000
2.  PPL training in additional subsectors              21 days        17,000              8          2,856,000
3.  PPM orientation training                           15 days         1,300              8            156,000
4.  PPM training in different subsectors               21 days         3,000              8            504,000
5.  PPS orientation training                           30 days           500             16            240,000
6.  PPS subject matter training                        90 days           500             13            585,000
7.  Provincial and district staff training /a         21 days            500             16            168,000
Total                                                                                    5,433,000
Per course
B. Fellowships
1.  Short-term fellowships abroad                     6 months            75         4,50n             338,000
2. Long-term fellowships
a.  M.Sc. in Indonesia                            2 years             50         3,830             191,50n
b.  M.Sc. abroad                                  2 years             20        24,000             480,000
3.  English training                                   90 days            90          1,170            105,300
4. Short training courses for extension
workers and supervisors                         15 days            133         2,500             332,500
5. Workshops, seminars, conferences inside
and outside the country                                                                           50,000
Total                                                                                    1,609,300
GRAND TOTAL                                                                              7,042,300
/a Includes 14-day training courses for provincial and district agricultural coordinators.



ANNEX 2
- 59 -                                Table 13
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Costs of Consulting Services
Man-      Cost per
months     man-month       Total cost
------- (Us$)     
1. General Advisory Services /a
Management advisor                           8          9,000           72,000
Extension advisor                            7          9,000           63,000
Financial advisor                            7          9,000           63,000
2. Short-Term Agricultural Consultants /b
Expatriate consultants                      63         10,000          630,000
Local consultants                           27          3,000           81,000
3. Local Architecture and Engineering
Services
(at 7% of total costs Ic of construc-
tion)                                                                  945,000
Total                                                           1,854,000
/a  See para. 4.18 for description of responsibilities.
/b  See para. 4.19 for description of responsibilities, and text table 4.1 for
breakdown of inputs by field of specialization.
Ic  See Annex 2, Table 2 for summary of total construction costs.



ANNEX 2
- 60 -                               Table 14
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Extension Materials
Unit    Total
Units    cost    cost
Basis of supply            (5 yrs)   (US$)   (US$)
A. Literature
Work diaries               1 per each PPL, PPM,
& PPS per year            95,705      4    382,820
Extension handbooks          "           "             97,705      4    382,820
Standard textbooks         4/province & district/       5,260    13      68,380
year
Journal subscriptions    2/province & district/         2,630    13      34,190
year
Extension brochures        6 per PPL/year             447,810   0.8    358,250
Subtotal                                                          1,226,460
B. Film
Film production (ori-    4 films produced in 1980,
ginal instructional    6 per year thereafter             28 12800    358,400
films)
Film rental (enter-        3 films hired/province/
tainment & technical)    year /a                        351  1200    421,200
Film copies                4 films copied or pur-
chased/province/year /a    468   800    374,400
Color slide set            12 per province/year
production                6 per district/year /a    8,088        7     56,616
Color slide copies         20 x 250 RECs/year          25,000   0.8      20,000
Subtotal                                                          1,230,616
Total                                                             2,457,076
/a  Assuming 13 provinces (166 districts) served in 1980, 26 provinces (237
districts) thereafter.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Schedule of Project Expendituires /a
(US$ million)
1980                 1981                 1982                 1983                 1984            Total expenditures
Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign   Total
Civil works                            0.94      0.31       3.18       1.07      6.31      2.10       0.82      0.27       -         -          11.25      3.75    15.00
Passenger vehicles                     0.13       1.10      0.12      1.03       0.13       1.1n      0.11      0.80       0.03      0.23        0.52      4.26      4.78
Materials and equipment                0.22      0.14       0.76       1.69      0.85       1.91      0.51      0.59        0.31     0.35        2.65      4.68      7.33       1
Training and consultants               0.47      0.25        1.67     0.59       2.67      0.53        1.78     0.64        1.05      0.45       7.64      2.46    10.10         '
Incremental field staff                1.40      -          2.89      -          4.90      -          6.74      -          6.86      -         22.79      -        22.79
Base costs and physical
contingencies                      3.16      1.80       8.62      4.38      14.86      5.64       9.96      2.30       8.25      1.03      44.85    15.15    60.00
Inflation coefficients              (0.075)  (0.045)    (0.236)  (0.134)    (0.389)  (0.218)    (0.527)  (0-304)    (0.680)  (0.395)    -               -         -
Expected price increases             0.24      0.08       2.03      0.59       5.78      1.23       5.25      0.69       5.61      0.41      18.91      3.00    21.91
Total Expenditures                 3.40      1.88      10.65      4.97      20.64      6.87      15.21      2.99      13.86      1.44      63.76    18.15    81.91
/a  Estimates for all substantive expenditure categories, except incremental field staff, include 10% physical contingencies.
a 2
rDX



- 62 -                              ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Estimated    Estimated      Proposed
Category                         total cost   for. exch.   allocation  Disburse-
component                  ment
-- (US$ million) ---------
1. Civil Works                      13.5         3.4
Expected price increases       4.3         0.7
Subtotal                   17.8         4.1           17.8        100%
2.  Materials & Equipment            6.6         4.3
Expected price increases       2.0         1.0
Subtotal                    8.6         5.3            7.3         /a
3.  Training & Consultants           9.2         2.2
Expected price increases       3.7         0.6
Subtotal                   12.9         2.8           12.9        100%
4. Unallocated
Physical contingencies
on above items               3.0         1.0
Headquarters construc-
tion & associated
contingencies                0.2         -
Incremental staff costs
& associated contin-
gencies                     33.7         -
Passenger vehicles &
associated contingen-
cies                         5.7         5.0
Subtotal                   42.6         6.0            4.0
Total                      81.9        18.2           42.0
/a Disbursements would be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
materials and equipment; 95% of ex-factory costs for locally manufactured
materials and equipment; and 65% of total costs for locally procured impor-
ted materials and equipment.



- 63 -                               ANN4EX 3
Table 3
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                               disbursements
and Semester                                 (US$ million)
FY81
First                                          0.1
Second                                         0.4
FY82
First                                          2.0
Second                                         5.0
FY83
First                                          8.0
Second                                        13.0
FY84
First                                         20.0
Second                                        27.0
FY85
First                                         34.0
Second                                        39.0
FY86
First                                         42.0



ANNEX 4
-64 -                                         Table 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICUL'tURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
PPL and PPM Staff Requirements /a
(Settled Areas)
Total       Minimum                                 Number of PYMs-   Number of PPMs
farm        number       DGFCA       Additional        required           a:ailable        Additional
Pro,ince       familiesjb   of PPLs          PPLs         PPLs       (District  (REC   (District  (REC           PRIs
('000)      required/c availablejd  required    level)    level)    level)    level)  requiredte
West Java               2,650        2,330        2,200           130        40        375       40         359           16
Central Java            2,960        1,716        1,375          341         58        247       58         180           67
Jogjakarta                360          242          200            42         8         34        8          20           14
East Java               3,240        1,657        1,300          357         58        260       58         194           66
North Sumatra             900          818          600          218         22        148       22           70          78
West Sumatra              450          755          600           155        16         82       16          50           32
South Sumatra             420          890          500          390         16         80       12          40           44
South Kalimantan          280          497          450           47         18         42       18          40            2
South Sulawesi            700        1,143          825          318         42        126       42          85           41
Bali                      330          326          300           26         16         52       16          50            2
West Nusa Tenggara        300          336          260            76        12         70       12          60           10
Aceh                      380          203          180            23        16         56       16          50            6
West Kalimantan           300          437          300           13'        12         58       12          50            8
Lampung                   540          633          200          433          6        102        -          16           92
Jambi                     150          431          250          181         10         30        -           -           40
Riau                      220          221           70          151         10         46        -           -           56
aengkulu                   90          185          130            55'        6         28        -           -           34
Central Kalimantan        110          184           55          129         18         28        -           -           46
East Kalimantan            70          124           30           94          8         18        -           -           26
North Sulawesi            240          391          140          251          8         56        -           -           64
Central Sulawesi          145          264           60          204          8         38        -           -           46
Southeast Sulawesi        1}0          311          100          211          8         26        -           -           34
'Saluku                   130          229           20          209          8         36        -           -           44
East Nusa Tenggara        390          557           80          477         24         84        -           -          108
Irian Jaya                150          474          100          374         18         18        -           -           36
Jakarta                    20            52          40            12         8         18        -           -           26
Total            15.635       15,406       10,365        5,041        474      2,158      330       1,264        1,038
a  For estimation and planning purposes only, subject to change during implementation on basis of local requirements.
/b From Annex 1, Table 1.
C  Based on the system of agricultural de:elopment working areas (;JKPP).
/d Estimated number of PPLs available full-time to implement the training and visit system, by end of National Food
Crops Extension Project.
/e  PPMs are not recruited directly, but are promoted from the ranks of PPLs.  Replacement PPLs would be recruited
in numbers shown.



ATNEX 4
- 65 -                                           Table 2
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
PPS Requirements, Food Crops and Total
Final
Final       Final       complement  Total final
Available  Required   Additional  complement  complement         other      complement
food crop  food crop  food crop   food crop   transmigra-  subsector   all exten-
PPSs/a     PpSs/b        PPSs         PPSs      tion PPSs/c   PPSs/d       sion PPSs
West Java             50           49          -            50           -             28             78
Central Java          57           59          2            59           -             32             91
Jogjakarta            10           14          4            14           -              7             21
East Java             62           59          -            62           -             42            104
North Sumatra         22           24          2            24           -             28             52
West Sumatra          20           23          3            23           1             12             36
South Sumatra         15           22          7            22           2             22             46
South Kalimantan      14           22          8            22           2              8             32
South Sulawesi        52           52          -            52           2             24             78
Bali                  14           21          7            21           -              6             27
West Nusatenggara    13            19          6            19           -              9             28
Aceh                  17           21          4            21           1             15             37
West Kalimantan       14           19          5            19           1             13             33
Lampung               13           17          4            17           2             22             41
Jambi                  7           14          7            14           2/e           13             29
Riau                   9           18          9            18           1             11             30
Bengkulu              11           12          1            12           1              5             18
Central Kalimantan    4            22         18            22           1              2             25
East Kalimantan        2           17         15            17           2              4             23
North Sulawesi         2           17         15            17           1             11             29
Central Sulawesi       5           21         16            21           2             12             35
Southeast Sulawesi    2            17         15            17           2              4             23
Maluku                 -           13         13            13           -             17             30
East Nusatenggara      4           25         21            25           -             15             40
Irian Jaya             -           18         18            18           1              3             22
Jakarta                2            9          7             9           -              2             11
Total              421          624        207           628          24            367          1,01Q
/a Existing or planned by end of the National Food Crops Extension project.
/b Based on proposed DGFCA ratios of 5 PPS/province, 4/residency and 1/district. If during the
course of project implementation it becomes apparent that PPS distributions do not permit the
regular training and briefing of all PPLs by PPSs, two forms of reallocation of PPSs would be
called for: within provinces, from provincial and residency offices to district offices, and
between provinces, from the more sparsely populated to the more heavily populated provinces.
/c From Annex 4, Table 4.
/d From Annex 4, Table 3.
/e Excluding the 2 PPSs provided for under the Transmigration II Project.



INDINI','; IA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENISI(N II PROJECT
Proposed Incremental Nonfood Crop PPSs. by Province /a
(Settled Areas)
Estate crops /c                                              Soil        Total
Livestock /b                                                              Sugar/                               ronservai;-b   .'o  ii
Cattle/   Goats/                                                    Pepper/  Coffee/  tobacco/                  Freshwater       refores-       crops
buffaloes  Sheep  Swine  Poultry  Subtotal  Coconuts  Rubber  spices    cocoa               misc.   Subtotal   fisheries /d    tation le          PPSs
West Java                  2          2      -        5          9          2         -         I                    2          5             9               5           28
Central Java               4          4      -        7         15          2         -         1         -          5          8             3               6           32
Jogjakarta                 I          -      -        2          3          -         -        -          -          1          1             1               2            7
East Java                  9          3      -        6         18          2         -         I         1         11         15             3               6           42
North Sumatra              2          1      3        7         13          2          4        1         1          1          9             4               2           28
West Sumatra               2          -      -        2          4          1          1        1         -          -          3             3               2           12
South Sumatra              1          1      -        3          5          1         8         1         4          -         14             2               1           22
South Kalimantan           1          -      -        3          4          1          1        -        -                      3             -               1            8
South Sulawesi             5          1      1        6         13          2         -        1          1          3          7             2              2            24
Bali                       1          -      -        1          2          1         -        -          1          -          2             1               1            6
West Nusatenggara          2          1      -        1          4          1          -        -         -          1          2             1               2            9
Aceh                       4          1      -        4          9          1          1       1          1          1          5             -               1           15
West Kalimantan            I          -      2        2          S          2          5        -         -          -          7             -               1           13
Lampung                    1          2      -        7         10          2          -        4         4          -         10             1               1           22
Jambi                      -          -      -        1          1          1          5        3         1          -         10             1               1           13
Riau                       -          -      -        2          2          3          5        -         -          -          8             -               1           11
Bengkulu                   -          -      -        1          1          -         -         1         1          -          2             1               1            5
Central Kalimantan         -          -      -        I          1          -          1        -         -                     I             -               -            2       ,
East Kalimantan            -          -      -        2          2          -         -        -          -          1          1             -               1            4       '
North Sulawesi             1          -      -        2          3          4          -        1         -          1          6             1               1           11
Central Sulawesi           2          -      -        1          3          2          -       4          1          -          7             1               1           12
Southeast Sulawesi         -          -      -        1          1          1         -        -         -           -          I             1               1            4
Maluku                     -          -      -        1          1          4          -        8         -          2         14             -               2           17
East Nusatenggara          3          1      2        2          8          1         -        -          I          2          4             1               2           15
Irian Jaya                 -          -      1        -          1          1         -        -         -           -          1             1               -            3
Jakarta                    -          -      -        1          1          -         -        -          -          -          -             I               -            2
Total               42         17      9       71        139         37         31       29        17         32        146            38              44          367
la  Allocations by subsector and province may be changed during implementation.  In particular, breakdowns by animal group and dominant estate crop spe-
cialties are presented as guidelines only.  The existing 131 provincIal  Pi'Ts in the livestock, estate crops, and fisheries sectors would not be incor-
porated in the project but would retain their ongoing development program functions.
/b Calculation of required number of livestock PPSs roughly based on assumption of model specialized p-odtucers handling 10 cattle/htxffaloes, 20 sheep/
goats, 25 swine, or 100 poultry (Annex 1, Table 2).  Calculations proceeded assuming 1 PPS:24 PPLs, ano! 1-r,incial PPL:farmer ratios given in Annex 4,
Table 1.
/c Calculation of required number of estate crop PPSs roughly based on assumption of model specialized producers operating 3 ha of coconuts or rubber,
1.5 ha of coffee/cocoa, or 1 ha of pepper/apices, sugar/tobacco, or other commercial crops.  Calculations proceeded assuming I PPS:24 PPLs, 1 PPL:1,600
spe l.'ized producers in Java/Bali, and half that ratio in Other Islands.
/d Calculation of requtired number of freshwater fisheries PPSs roughly based on assumption of model specialized operator handling a 0.1 ha fishpond.
Calculations proceeded assuming 1 PPS:12 PPLs, 1 PPL:1,600 operators in Java/Bali, and half that ratio in Other Islands.
/e  Required number of reforestation/soil conservation PPSs based on broad assessment of extent and Impact of deforestation and erosion problems.



- 67 -                                           ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Extension Staff Requirements for Transmigration Areas /a
Minimum    Number of  Additional  Final   Number    Number of
Number of           number of PPLs PPLs avail-  PPLs          PPL      of PPrtf    P:'.;q
Province    transmigrant families        required      able /b   required complement required  required
Aceh                    2,700              5                 -       5         5          2          1
North Sumatra             616              1                 7        -        7          -          -
Riau                    3,850              8                 4       4         8          4          1
West Sumatra            5,400             11                11       -        11          4          1
Jambi /a                9,350             19                 5      14        19          8          2
Bengkulu                6,862             14                 -      14        14          6          1
South Sumatra          17,307             35                 -      35        35         10          2
Lampung                20,799             42                19      23        42         10          2
West Kalimantan         5,171             10                 -      10        10          4          1
Central Kalimantan    2,000                4                12       -        12          2          1
South Kalimantan        7,667             15                 -      15        15          6          2
East Kalimantan         7,618             15                 -      15        15          6          2
North Sulawesi          2,155              4                33       -        33          2          1
Central Sulawesi        9,633             19                 -      19        19          4          2
South Sulawesi          8,009             16                20       -        20          6          2
Southeast Sulawesi    8,641               17                16       1        17          6          2
Maluku                    536              1                 -        1         1         -          -
Irian Jaya              1,594              3                 -       3         3          2          1
Total             119,908             239              127      159       286         82         24
/a  Including all registered families in transmigration areas currently under
the jurisdiction of the Directorate General of Transmigration, and those
areas planned for initial development through 1979, excluding the Trans-
migration II project areas in Jambi.
/b  Existing PPL agricultural assistants on the payroll of the Directorate
General of Transmigration would be transferred to the project establishment
and progressively upgraded to DCFCA qualifications.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Monthly Salaries and Allowances of Typical Extension Personnel
(April 1979) (Rp)
Spouse  Children's  Position    Special   Project    Other
Basic  allowance  allowance  allowance  allowance allowance allowances   Net Salary
Status and years of service            salary    (5%)         (2%)      (20%)         (10%)                  (Avg)      (Rp)   (US$)
Head District Extension Service
15 years experience
(salary scale III/b)                 61,100    3,055    1,222          12,220   6,110        12,500    10,000   106,207  169.93   m
Subject Matter Specialist (PPS)
3 years experience
(salary scale III/a)                 37,500    1,875        750         7,500   3,750        12,000      7,500    71,375  114.20
Middle Level Extension Worker (PPM)
3 years experience
(salary scale II/b)                  26,900    1,345        538         5,380   2,690         7,500      5,000    49,353   78.96
Field Extension Worker (PPL)
3 years experience
(salary scale II/a)                  23,400    1,170        468         4,680   2,340         7,500      5,000    44,558   71.28
Hm
(D X
El .



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Staff and Personnel Cost Projections
Estimated annual sal-
ary and allowances /a
1980 and
1979      1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1979       thereafter
(IS$) ----
A. Extension Staff Bulildup (numbers
Project Headquarters Staff /b
Professional                                      15         30        50         50         50         50         50    2,040          2,210
Support                                           20         27         30        32         32         32         32       420           455
Field Staff (existing and committed)
PPLs (without project)                        8,500      9,500    10,365/c  10,365    10,365    10,365    10,365            855           927
PPMs (without project)                           940     1,340      1,594/c   1,594       1,594      1,594      1,594       948         1,026
PPSs (without project)                           380        400       421/d      421        421        421        421    1,370          1,485
Transmigration PPLs (without project)            127/e      127        127        127       127        127        127       500           927
Proposed Incremental Field Staff
PPLs (settled areas)                               -     1,000      2,000      3,500      5,041/c   5,041       5,041         -           927
PPLs (transmigration areas)                        -         30        120       159/e      159        159        159         -           927
PPMs (settled areas)                               -       250        500        900      1,038/c   1,038       1,038         -         1,026
PPMs (transmigration areas)                        -         15        60         82/e       82         82         82         -         1,026
PPSs (food crops)                                  -         50        90        112        207/d      207        207         -         1,485
PPSs (transmigration areas)                        -         16         24/e       24        24         24         24         -         1,485
PPSs (other subsectors)                            -         50        120       200        290        367/f      367         -         1,485
Administrative and Supervisory Staff /g
Provincial level:
Executives                                      26        26         26         26         26         26         26    2,400          2,600
Full professionals (PPS grade)                  61        80        100        120        150        180        204    1,370          1,485
Technicians (PPM grade)                        101        102       103        104        105        105        105       948         1,026
Support staff                                  102       102        102        102        102        102        102       420           455
District level:
Executives                                     237       237        237        237        237        237        237    2,040          2,210
Full professionals (PPS grade)                  49        55         65         75         85         90         96    1,370          1,485
Technicians (PPM grade)                        195        196       197        198        198        198        198       948         1,026
Support staff                                  115       115        115        115        115        115        115       420           455
B. Salaries and Allowances (US$'000) /a
Project headquarters staff                          39         79        124       125        125        125        125
Field staff (existing and committed)             8,743    10,894    11,987    11,987    11,987    11,987    11,987
Proposed incremental field staff                     -      1,399     2,887      4,898      6,743      6,858      6,858
Administrative and supervisory staff             1,068      1,196     1,243      1,290      1,350      1,402      1,446
Total Personnel Cost                     9,850    13,568    16,241    18,300    20,205    20,372    20,416
/a  Based on Annex 4, Table 5 for 1979 and assuming general pay increase equal to one month's salary for 1980.  For 1980 and subsequient years,
monetary amounts are expressed in early 1980 currency values.
/b See Chart 2.
/c See Annex 4, Table 1.
/d See Annex 4, Table 2.
/e  See Annex 4, Table 4.
/f  See Annex 4, Table 3.                                                                                                                                                a 
/g  Based on Preparation Report, Table 28.                                                                                                                               a >



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Total Estimated Recurrent Expenditures on Agricultural Extension
(By Project UJnit, DGFCA, and Provincial Food Crops Agricultural Ser.ices)
(US$ million) /a
1979       1980      1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
Salaries and allowances /b                             9.85      13.57      16.24      18.30      20.21      20.37      20.42
Routine training                                        0.30      0.45       0.55       0.65       0.75       0.85       0.90
Nonroutine training:
NFCEP                                                0.38       0.65       0.65       0.65       -          -          -
NAEP II                                              -          0.24       1.28       2.41       1.85       1.26       -
Ongoing                                              0.10       0.10       0.10       0.10       0.10       0.10       0.50
Field supervision (commercial travel and
subsistence)
11eadquarters level                                0.03       0.06       0.09       0.09       0.09       0.09       0.09
Provincial level                                   0.04       0.05       0.06       0.07       0.08       0.09       0.09
District level                                     0.08       0.10       0.12       0.13       0.14       0.15       0.17
Vehicles:
Operation and maintenance                            0.40       0.60       0.70       0.80       0.90       1.00       1.08
Depreciation /c                                      0.40       0.72       0.84       0.92       1.06       1.21       1.31           
Office overheads                                        0.10      0.12       0.14       0.16       0.18       0.20       0.20
Equipment depreciation                                 0.30       0.40       0.50       0.55       0.60       0.60       0.60
Extension materials                                    0.25       0.30       0.40       0.45       0.50       0.55       0.55
Special field events (farmer competitions,
field days, exhibitions, demonstration
plots)                                               0.12       0.14       0.16       0.18       0.20       0.22       0.24
Total                                  12.35      17.50      21.83      25.46      26.66      26.69      25.15
/a  1979 estimates in 1979 currency values.  For 1980 and thereafter estimates are in early 1980 currency values.
Total expenditures in 1979 are equivalent to US$13.9 million in early 1980 currency values, assuming a 25% annual
rate of inflation over a six-month period.
/b  From Annex 4, Table 6.
/c  Replacement costs used for calculating depreciation for 1979 were based on international prices for iehicles.
For 1980 and thereafter, costs of locally assembled vehicles (Annex 2, Table 6) were used.
Source:  Ilission estimates based on DGFCA project preparation report and annual reports of NFCEP.



- 71 -                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNra 5
INDONESIA                                                                            TbNeX I
Page 1
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Main Constraints to Production
and Potential for Increasing the Yields of Maior Commodities
Main constraints to                                             Present          Agronomically        Expected yield
Commodity        Main production centers          increasing smallholder               Key points for            average small-    feasible aver-    with improved
in order of importance                 production               emphasis in extension           holder yield         age yield            extension
Paddy (rice)         W.Java, E.Java, C.Java,        Pests (chiefly brown plant  Selection of varieties              Java:               Java:                Java:
(dry gabah)          S.Sulawesi, N.Sumatra,         hoppers and rats); dis-         resistant to local pests/   3.1 tons/ha             4.2 tons/ha         3.6 tons/ho
S.Suostra, W.Kalimantan,    eases; limited periods of   diseases; improved nor-
S.Kalimantan, W.Sumatra,    water supply or flooding;   sery management; timing,    Other Islands:    Other Islands:    Other Islands:
Aceh, Lampung, NTB,            inadequate usage of ferti-  rate and method of appli-   2.4 tons/ha                 3.5 tons/ha          2.9 tons/ha
Bali, Riau, Jambi, NTT         lizer/insecticide due in    cation of fertilizers and
part to recurrent delays    pesticides; correct age
by coops in delivering         of transplanting; pest
Bimas-financed inputs; lack surveillance; communal
of upland blast-resistant   rat control; water man-
varieties; poor seed qua-   agemert including drain-
lity                           age in maturity period
Maize                E.Java, C.Java, S.Sula-         Downy mildew and insuffi-   Introduce mildew-resis-            Java:               2.5 tons/ha          1.5 tons/ha
(dry seed)           wesi, NTT, N.Sulawesi,         cient good seed of mildew-  tont BYV; correct time              1.3 tons/ha
W.Java, N.Sumatra,             resistant variety; yield    of planting and pest con-
Bali, S.E.Sulawesi,            closely linked to rainfall  trol; rate, time, method of Other Islands:
Jogjakarta, C.Sulawesi,        and risk factor and sore-   application of fertilizer;  1.1 tons/ha
Lampung, NTB                   liable marketing discourage improved processing and
farmers from using cash        storage
inputs
Cassava              E.Java, C-Java, W-Java,        Poorly developed market-    Selection of high-yield-    Java:                       20 tons/ha           Java:
(fresh root)         Jogjakarta, Lampung, NTT,   ing system and low farm-    ing bacterial blight-                 8.9 tons ha                              11.1 tons/ha
S.Sulawesi                     gate price; inadequate          resistant varieties;
supply of improved             improved processing to          Other Islands:                           Other Islands:
planting material; crop        achieve better quality          9.2 tons/ha                              12.2 tons/ha
management poor due to         and price; promote use
lack of incentives and         of fertilizer; better
knowledge                      plant spacing; erosion
control measures
Groundnut            E.Java, C.Java, W-Java,        Marketing system and            Introduce inproved EYVs;    0.8 tons/ha             1.5 tons/ha          1.0 tons/ha
(shelled)            Jogjakarta, S.Sulawesi,        price fluctuation;              use of good seed rate,
N.Sumatra, NTB                 inadequate supply of            time, method of applica-
good seed of improved          tion of fertilizer; in-
varieties; rather poor         proved pest and disease
quality of product due         control and post-harvest
to lack of effective           handling; improve sowing
pest control and post-         timing and land prepara-
harvest handling               tion, lining where neces-
sary
Soybean              E.Java, C.Java, NTB,           Pod-boring insects uncon-   Introduce improved varie-   0.8 tons/ha                 1.5 tons/ha          I.0 tons
(dry seed)           Lampung, W.Java, Jogja-        trolled; indeterminate          ties; improved seed and
karta, N.Sumatra, Bali         fruiting pattern, crcos-   preparation/planting
pora rust disease; rather   techniques, pest control,
poor quality due to lack    and post-harvest handling;
of effective pest control   rhinobiun inocculation;
and low standard of man-    basal phosphatic and ii-
agement                        tial nitrogen fertilizer
application
Sweet potato         E.Java, W.Java, C.Java,        Lack of effective market-   Introduce improved plant-   7.8 tons/ha                 20 tons/ha           10 tons/ho
(fresh root)         Irian Jaya, N.Sumatra,         ing system and adequate         ing materials; improved
NTT, Bali, NTB, Maluku         improved planting mater-    rate, time, and method of
ial; limited use of nssh    application of fertilizer
inputs due to lack of          and post-harvest handling
market and price level
Coconut              C.Java, N.Sulawesi,            Poor maintenance and pro-   Suitability, amount and             625 kg/ha           1,200 kg/ha          775 kg/ha
(copra)              W.Java, E.Java, Riau,          duction techniques; in-         timing of fertilizer                                (tall varieties;
C.Sulawesi, Maluku,            sufficient replanting;          application; upkeep of                              hybrid varie-
S.Sulawesi, N.Sumatra,         poor transport, communi-    holdings including drain-                               ties much higher)
W.Kalimantan, Lampung,         cation, marketing system;   age; feasibility and
Aceh                           fluctuating price; little   methods of intercropping;
incestive to process good   identification and con-
quality copra                  trol of pests/diseases;
felling sterile palms and
replacement with selected
seed



- 72 -
ANNEX 5
Table I
Page 2
Main constraints to                                            Present         Agronomically       Expected yield
Conmodity        Main production centers          increasing smallholder             Key points for           average  snall-    feasible aver-    with improved
in order of inportance                production               emphasis in extension          holder yield         age yield           extension
Rubber               S.Su=atra, Jambi,              Little replanting with         Improved tapping sod latex  375 kg/ha              600 kg/ha           425 kg/ha
(med snall-         W.Kalimantan, .Riau,           improved clones; poor           collection and processing                          (unselected        improved
holder output    N.Sumatra, C.Kalimantan,    upkeep; injurious tapping   methods, including marking                                 seedlings; bud-   quality
of slabs,          S.Kalimantan, W.Sunatra,    methods; no fertilization;  tapping panel and avoiding                              grafted improved
ncrap, and        Aceh                           poor transport and pro-        excessive bark consumption                         clones much
nheet)                                            censing infrastructure;       and wounding; intensive                            higher)
no price incentive for         exploitation of old rubber
quality                        prior to replanting; re-
planting with inproved
clones
Coffee               Lampung, S.Sumatra,            Credit and marketing must   Harvesting at correct             430 kg/ha           1.000 kg/ha        580 kg/ha
(dry beans)         E.Java, Aceh, Hali,            be improved: farmers pick   stage of maturity; intro-                             with new plant-   improved
S.Sulawesi,B.engkulu,         beans too early in order    duce correct pruning                                   ing material       quality
C.Sulawesi, C.Java             to get cash quickly and       managexent and improved
lack knowledge of crop         planting material;
management, harvesting         improved pest and disease
and prncessing                 control; fertilizer usage
Clove                C.Sulawesi, Lampung,           Marketing, credit, small    Improved harvesting and           75 kg/ha            250 kg/ha/year    150 kg/ha
C.Java, N.Sulawesi,            farm sice  poor quality        processing techniques;         (Many young                            improved
W.Java, E.Java, Maluku,        of product at farm-gate;    correct use of fertili-           trees)                                  quality
Aceh, W.Sumatra                farmers lack knowledge of   zer; introduction of
crop management, harvest-   improved planting mater-
ing and processing tech-    ial
niques
Popper               Lampung, S.Su=atra,            Phytopthera disease; low       Disease control vital;         500-900 kg/ha/    900-1,500 kg/ha   1,000 kg/ha
E.Kali=antan, W.Kalinan-    or unbalanced fertilizer    promote use of poles in-    year                        year                improved
tan                            levels and neglect of          stead of trees to support                                             quality
=ulching                       pepper plants; use of
fertilizer; mulching
Inland fresh-       W.Java, C.Java, E.Java,         Water supply and quality    Correct pond construction    1,250 kg/ha/             2,000-3,000 kg/   1,500 kg/ha/
water fish         W.Sumatra, N.Sumatra,          and water -anagenent;          and water management,          year               ha/year             year
ponds             N.Sulawesi, Ja=bi,              tack of quality and            fertilizing and feeding
Bengkulu                       quantity of fish fry;          technique; use of chemi-
Farners lack of know-          cals for parasite control:
ledge of proper pond           and procurement/production
management techaique           and handling of fry and
fingerlings
Beof cattle and    W.Java, C.Java, E.Java,          Most cattle and buffalo        Mducate farmers to poten-   Avg. daily             -                  Avg. daily
buffalo meat       S.Sulawesi, Arch, Bali,        kept for draft purposes        tial and nethods of keep-   live weight                               live weight
production        NTB, C.Kalinantan.             and farmers not orien-          ing animals for meat          gain:                                   gain:
W.Su=atra                      ted to meat production;        production; concentrate        0.3 kg                                  0.5 kg
need breed improvement,        extension effort initial-   Avg. carcass                              Avg. carcass
better nutrition, hus-         ly on improved nutrition    weight:                                   weight:
bandry, credit, market-        and disease control,           130 kg                                  160 kg
iog and slaughter faci-        followed by pen construc-                                             lower morta-
lities and farmer educa-    tion, feed and fodder                                                    lity
tion                           production, and basic
breeding guidelines
Egg production       E.Java, W.Java, C.Java,        Lack of:  adequate in-         Fducate farmers to pa-         40 eggs/laying     80 eggs/laying      60 eggs/laying
La=pung, S.Sulawesi,          proved breeding stock;          tential commercial egg        hen/year            hen/year            hen/year
Aceh, N-Sumatra, S.Kali-    effective grading, price    production; concentrate
=antan                         and marketing system;          extension efforts ini-
knowledge of techniques        tially on improved mu-
of small-scale poultry         trition  and disease
management                     control
Milk production      E.Java, C.Java, W.Java,        Tack of:  adequate in-         Improved nutrition of          1,300 kg/lac-       -                   1,900 kg/lac-
N.Su=atra                      proved breeding stock,         dairy cattle and disease    tation/cow                                tation/cow
knowledge and skill of         control
farmers, cash; small
farm size; collection,
processing and marketing
systems must be inproved
Sources: Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
Directorate General of Estate Crops
Directorate General of Fisheries
Directorate General of Livestock.



INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION TI PROJECT
Calculation of Indicative Economic Benefits
Repre-       Potential                                        Number of    Number of                         Typical current  Typical future            Potential
Potential       sentative    incremental   Incremental           Number of    partially         marginally   Total annual           economic           economic          gross annual
incremental       holding       yield per        number of        fully par-   partici-          partici-       incremental          farmgate           farmgate           economic
yield            size         holding      PPLs actively       ticipating    pating          pating          production           price 1k            price /1          benefits
(kg/ha/year)          (ha)           (kg)         extending /f   farmers .t    farmers /h   farmers /i              (tuns)/:          (US$/ton)          (US1$/ton)       (US$ million)
Paddy /a                              500  (19%)        0.4          200            5,200             130,0000       325,000        975,000             97,500            240                   280              27.30
Maize (bagged)                        300  (25%)        0.2           60            5,200             130,000        325,000        975,000             29,250            160                   180               5.27
Soybeans                              200  (25%)        0.1           20            5,200             130,000        325,000        975,000              9,750            270                   435               4.24
Groundnuts (shelled)                  200  (25%)        0.1           20            5,200             130,000        325,000        975,000              9,750            570                   580               5.66
Cassava (fresh root)                2,600   (29%)       0.1          260            5,200             130,000        325,000        975,00n            126,750             10                    10               1.27
Rubber /b (mixed output)               50  (15%)        2.0          100            1,190              30,000         70,000        215,000             I0,800            640                   720               7.78
Coconuts /b (copra)                   150  (24%)        2.0          300            1,190              30,000         70,000        215,000             32,400            344                   370              11.99
Pond fish (mixed) /c                  250  (20%)        0.1           25              619              16,000         40,000        120,000              1,500            720                   720               1.08
Poultry (meat) /d                            20%       15 birds        1.8          2,266            500,000                -              -                900           882                   882               0.79
Poultry  (egg) /e                   6 eggs/bird        15 birds       90 eggs       2,266             500,000               -              -         45 million eggs             (.05/apiece)                     2.25
(30%)
67.63
/a  Assuming only one crop per annum, full benefits achieved over 5 years.  Representative holding assumed to produce all five major food crops.
/b  Full benefits achieved over 10 years.
/c  Full benefits achieved over 3 years.
/d  Assuming 30% slaughtered per annum, average current live weight of 2 kg1 full benefits over 5 years.
/e  Assuming following standard factors:  60% of flock female, 50% of females laying 40 usable eggs per annum, equivalent to 12 eggs per bird; full benefits over 5 years.
If  For food crops, equivalent to incremental number of PPLs to be engaged under project (Annex 4, Tables I and 4).  For other subsectors, based on the number of PPLs in the areas where those
subsectors predominate and the numbers of PPSs in those subsectors who would be made available to train and brief them.
/g  Defined as farmers following closely most extension recommendations for crop, and achieving 100% of the potential increment given in Column 1.  Estimated at 2 farmers in
each farmer group, i.e., 32 farmers per PPL in areas where I PPL handles 16 groups, and 16 in other areas.
/h  Defined as farmers following some of the recommendations and achieving 50% of the potential increment.  Estimated at 5 farmers in each farmer group, i.e., between 40 and 80 farmers per PPL.
Ti  Defined as farmers following only a few of the recommendations given, and achieving 20% of the potential increment.  Fstimated at 15 farmers in each farmer group, i.e., between 120 and 240
farmers per PPL.
/i  At full development.  For derivation see footnotes above.  It is assumed that extension work on soil conservation and reforestation contributes to the yield increases of other agricultural
activities.
/k  Estimated for 1980, in 1980 currency values.
/1  Estimated for 1990, in 1980 currency values.
SM



- 74                                 ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Indicative Economic Rate of Return
Incremental         Estimated net
Project costs /        operating costs /a    farm benefits /b
- - - - - - - - - - - 1980 US$ million - - - - - -      - - -
1980                       4.96                   0.58
1981                      13.00                   1.13                 1.28
1982                      20.50                   1.58                 3.98
1983                      12.26                   1.90                 9.17
1984                       9.28                   2.37                16.98
1985                          -                   8.30                26.01
1986                          -                   8.30                33.79
1987                          -                   8.30                40.25
1988                          -                   8.30                44.43
1989                          -                   8.30                46.72
1990                          -                   8.30                48.88
1991                          -                   8.30                50.46
1992                          -                   8.30                52.05
1993                          -                   8.30                53.31
1994-2005                     -                   8.30                54.10
Economic Rate of Return = 35%
/a  Project costs (see Annex 3, Table 1), which include physical contingencies,
also include many incremental operating costs, such as incremental field
staff salaries and allowances, non-routine training, and extension
materials. From 1985 onwards these costs are included in the incremental
operating cost column. Estimates are based on Annex 4, Tables 6-7, reduced
to account only for incremental operating costs due to this project.
/b  Based on Annex 5, Table 2, less 20% for cost of incremental farm inputs.
For each activity benefits are built up over time based on the projected
phasing of the introduction of extension for various activities.



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents in the Projezt File
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Agricultural Sector.
A.1 "Agricultural Extension, the Training and Visit System," by
Daniel Benor and James Q. Harrison; World Bank; May 1977.
A.2 World Bank, "Commodity Price Forecast," May 1979.
A.3 World Bank, "Employment and Income Distribution in Indonesia,"
Report No. 2378-IND, February 20, 1979.
A.4 World Bank, "Indonesia, Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops,"
Report No. 2374-IND, March 3, 1979.
B. Staff Appraisal Reports for Related Indonesia Projects.
B.1 The National Food Crops Extension Project, Report No. 1105a-IND,
May 7, 1976.
B.2 The Agricultural Research and Extension Project, Report No. 646a-IND,
April 8, 1975.
B.3 The Second Agricultural Training Project, Report No. 2274d-IND,
April 9, 1979.
B.4 The Transmigration II Project, Report No. 2349b-IND, May 14, 1979
B.5 The Non-Formal Education Project, Report No. 1606b-IND,
August 19, 1977.
B.6 The Nutrition Development Project, Report No. 1318-IND,
February 16, 1977.
C. Reports Relating Specifically to this Project.
C.1 "National Agricultural Extension Project, Phase II," Second Draft,
Directorate General of Food Crop Agriculture, Ministry of
Agriculture, Republic of Indonesia (Preparation Report).
C.2 "National Agricultural Extension Project on Transmigration Areas,"
First Draft, DGFCA, MOA, ROI, 1979 (Preparation Report).
C.3 "Annual Report of the National Food Crop Extension Project,
April 1, 1977-March 31, 1978," DGFCA, MOA, ROI (Progress Report).
C.4 Appraisal Working Paper: "Research and Extension for Food Crops,
Livestock, and Inland Fisheries," by W.P. Ting (Bank).
C.5 Appraisal Working Paper: "Food Crop Production Targets and
Extension Packages," by K. Sengupta (Bank).
C.6  Appraisal Working Paper:  "Estate and Industrial Crops," by
C.W. Brookson (Bank consultant).
C.7 "Final Report on Evaluation for Lampung Tani Makmur Project," The
Japanese and Indonesian Joint Evaluation Team, Jakarta, June 1977.



ANNEX 7
- 76 -                             Page I
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Study of the Proposed Strengthening and Unification
of the Agricultural Extension Service
Terms of Reference
1.        According to existing regulations, e.g. Presidential Decree No.
45/1976 and No. 47/1979 and the Decree of the Minister of Agriculture No.
190/1975, the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
(AAETE) is the agency officially responsible for agriculture extension. In
spite of this, at present, responsibility for the implementation of
agriculture extension is still divided among a number of central and
provincial agencies, including AAETE.
2.        The project unit within the DGFCA is responsible for overall
management of the NFCEP (Loan 1267-IND), while the provincial food crops
extension services are responsible for field implementation. The Bimas
Secretariat currently engages, pays, and promotes food crops extension workers
(PPSs, PPMs, PPLs). The various other line Directorates General and the
respective provincial services are also managing their own extension workers
implementing specialized commodity development programs. While the various
related extension activities are being established and expanded on the basis
of urgent needs, it is felt that the implementation of these extension
activities should be more closely coordinated leading to a unified extension
service on central, provincial, district and field levels.
3.        The Government intends to strengthen AAETE so that it can take on
the coordination of extension activities envisaged in the Presidential and
Ministerial Decrees referred to above. It is the purpose of this study to
provide a comprehensive and detailed view of the organizational implications
of and preconditions necessary to achieve this goal; the detailed steps
required to implement it in terms of reorganization, administrative procedure,
personnel management, and staffing of various units; optimal timing of pro-
posed changes bearing in mind current operational responsibilities of the
various agencies involved, their size, experience and competencies; the opera-
tional costs and benefits of various courses of action (including the status
quo) in terms of potential impact on Indonesian smallholder agriculture; and
based on the latter, a recommended plan for the organization of agricultural
extension in Indonesia and a detailed program to achieve it.
THE STUDY
Issues to be Addressed
4.        What organizational unit at each operational level (central, provin-
cial, district and Rural Extension Center) should be responsible for the



ANNEX 7
- 77~ -Page 2
recruitment, training, payment, assignment, daily supervision and evaluation,
and promotion of extension field staff (PPLs, PPMs and PPSs)? What are the
present management capabilities of these organizational units to perform the
above tasks, what steps would be required to improve those capabilities and
on what time schedule?
5.        Given the existence and expansion of specific smallholder commodity
development programs managed by various types of project management units
(e.g. coconut working centers, rubber PMUs, veterinary posts, demonstration
fish ponds), is there need for other extension field staff specialized by
commodity? What would be the effects on farmer acceptance of such diversifi-
cation? If there is such a need, how should they best be located organiza-
tionally, and managed in terms of the considerations mentioned in para. 4
above.
6.        What are the specific extension management functions (budgeting,
programming, staff planning and allocation, procurement, accounting, finance,
technical agricultural recommendations and support, preparation of extension
materials, training) which could best be performed at the central, provincial,
district and REC levels?
7.        At each level, what are the advantages and disadvantages of unified
versus subsector specific extension organizational units to accomplish the
service functions mentioned in para. 6 above?
8.        From the point of view of career development and expectations of
individual staff at various levels, what are the advantages and disadvantages
of the different organizational approaches mentioned in paras. 4 through 7
above? What measures could be taken to militate against any such disadvan-
tages?
9.        If a centralized headquarters extension management unit, extrapola-
ting from the unit implementing the two national projects, and taking into
account relevant management approaches and organizations in other countries,
is considered the most desirable organizational alternative at the central
level, what kind of support and links would it require from its home agency?
Which agency could best provide this support, what steps would be required
for this agency to provide this support, and on what timetable?
10.       Specifically, in the Indonesian context, should field extension
work continue to be largely financed by the development budget (e.g. BIMAS)
on a project basis, or should such work be financed by routine recurrent
budgets?
11.       What are appropriate civil service grade levels for various levels
of extension staff?



- 78 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 3
12.       What would be the most effective mechanism(s) to link agricultural
extension with research at each operational level, and how best should the
existing and proposed resources, both physical and human, be used in achieving
this objective? How should the information flow be improved between the
regional research stations and both the various kinds of PMUs (as referred to
in para. 5) and other extension services? What should the functional rela-
tionships be between the various kinds of PMUs and other extension services?
What should the functional relationships be between the PPSs and agricultural
research activities?
Organization
13.       The study will be implemented by a team of individually recruited
consultants consisting of the following members:
(a) Chairman/Public Administration Expert (12 months). A recognized
Indonesian academic expert in the field of public administration,
with no current affiliation with any GOI agency involved in agri-
cultural extension, but preferably with considerable experience
or expertise in national, provincial, and local public administra-
tion.
(b)  Public Administration Expert (12 months).  A recognized expert
in the field of public administration in developing countries,
with experience or expertise in Indonesia and preferably possess-
ing a working knowledge of Indonesian.
(c) Personnel Management Expert (12 months). An experienced consul-
tant in the field of personnel management in large governmental
or business organizations.
(d) Agricultural Extension Expert (12 months). A recognized expa-
triate expert in the field of agricultural extension in developing
countries, preferably with experience in Indonesia.
(e)  Research Assistants (2 assistants, 6 months each).  Two Indonesians,
possibly students at the graduate school level, one in the field
of public or business administration or law, one in agriculture
extension or an agricultural discipline, to assist in statistical,
legal, or organizational research and analyses.
14.       The study will be implemented under the jurisdiction of the Minister
of Agriculture, the Minister of State for Adminstrative Reform and the Minis-
ter of Home Affairs. The implementation of the study will be administered
by the Organization and Management Division of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The three agencies will jointly prepare short lists of candidates for the
various positions, ascertain their availability, nominate preferred candi-
dates, and following approval of nominees by the Association, engage them.
All principal consultants would commence work simultaneously.



- 79 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 4
15.       The study would require a period of 12 months.  During this period
the team would be housed in the Organization and Management Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture. The participation of counterpart staff from
various agencies would be arranged as required by the Division.
16.       The team would prepare and submit an interim report within six
months of the commencement of the study, and a final report after twelve
months.
17.       Copies of the interim report and final study shall be presented to
the Minister of Agriculture, Minister of State for Administrative Reform,
Minister of Home Affairs, Minister of Finance, BAPPENAS, and the Association.



- 80 -                                ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Organization Study
Consultant Cost Estimates
Man-      Cost per        Total
Position                            months      man-month       cost
--- (US$) -
Chairman/public administration expert                12          3,000         36,000
Public administration expert (expatriate)            12          7,000         84,000
Personnel management expert                          12          7,000         84,000
Agricultural extension expert (expatriate)            12         7,000         84,000
Research assistant (law or public/business
administration)                                     6          1,000          6,000
Research assistant (agriculture/agricultural
extension)                                          6          1,000          6,000
Total                                           60                       300,000



81 -
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION 11 PROJECT
Org4nization of Project Unit - Existing and Proposed
Present Organization of Central Project Unit
National Food Crops Extension Project
Project Director
Four Assistants                    Treasury
to the Director,                      t2\            
Responsible for                                                       Technical                                              Adrn-strat,.e
Field Supervision                                                     DOvisson                                                   D-osion
In Assigned rnoninces                                                       (1)                                                      (1
Total Staff  15 Professlonels IS Full Time)                                            Training           Extension        Programming           General            Logistics          Accounts
t1)                (1t                 t1)             Service               1))
t1)
Proposed Organization of Central Project Unit                                             Project Director
National Agricultural Extension 11 Project                                                                  Audit Section I 1 Chief. 2 Staff)
111111                                                   1 I
Sic Assistant Directors                            Division Chief                        Dwiision Chief                  Division Chief                       Treasurer
for Field Supernision                           for Transmigration                       for Technical                       for
in Assigned Provinces                              Coordination                            Support                      Administration
Training Section                             sooinio P rogrammiTng
(1                                              SerwceStaff)  Section  Section
11  Chief,        S1 Chief.
3 staff)                              3 StaffC3
Procurement                             General                                   sSection                Disburement                            Treaury
Section                               Service                                1I Chief,                    Section                             (I Chief,
ft Chief,                             Section                                3 Stuff) 11 Chief,                                                 6 Staff)
3 Staff)                             (1 Chief,                                                            3 Staff)
3 Staff)
PROFESSIONAL STAFF
1Director
10 Senior Officers
9 Section Chiefs
30 Staff
50 Professional Staff
VVorld Bank   21340






b   k k<\   teTHAILAND   Ob  112                  <   113-                V         14-    t  g      _            130-                        INDONESIA                   IBRD 14717~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 171
t < / a^r \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES0, NAT10NAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION IF PROJECT
t;t -r ~~- >, Sd a s O u   b                        C h     n   o RN73   Dsr5 bner es
wX  it  W   )  I  L Ur'  /;9                \                 ,,,          21        _Ft         r O /   c,  5, g                      /        \                                 NAM1' *    z BCRUNE 
)  j          r MALA_   ceR1.+Z'Mj                                                 ,'~               b XX    ;f    ;/                              ; S.O,>      
,"  <g   r                          X                                X                                             A                       S ff f f       _      3?N    X   z~~~~~~- --.1E-d
t S r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0E E IT0 >~RC N)POICA
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,eo nc dAF IMIN oT- Eeon                                y       X>z>
KI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            M  L OA Y S IE3  10703040 0 O 0 0    lL.eesfer tbloce elalPsBaCA
MILE~~~~~~~S 0IN 0 PORE0S0  S. m/;bonvrlw-anv sms
1009  106                 112-                            Ilb                            124-                           lloo                             136                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~"~,~ZZMAFW



i



4.  Sarolangun Bangko (Bangko)            1.  Semarang (Semarang)                 17   Lumajang (Lumajang)                     3.  Sambas (Singkawang)                          15.  Majene (Majene)
INDEX OF lE - 14717                5.  Tanjung Jabung (Kuala Tungkal)        2.   Kendal (Semarang)                   18.  Pasuruan (Pasuruan)                    4.   Ketapang (Ketapang)                         16.  Polewa  Mamasa (Polewali)
I   SPECIAL REGION OF ACEH                KOTAMADYA                            3.  Pekalongan                           19   Probol nggo (Probolinggo)              5.  Sintang (Singtang)                           17.  Tana Torala (Makate)
6.  Jambi                                 4.  Batang                              20  PFiarukan (Panarukan)                    6.   Kapuas Hulu (Putusibau)                     18.  Lume (Palapol
KABUPATEN                                                                      5.  Pemalag Pem alnng(ll                21.  Bardowosa (Bondowoso)                        KOTAMA'fA                                  lB.  Mamuua omepo)
1   Aceh Besar (Banda Aceh)               VI PROVINCE OF SOUTH SUMATRA   6.  Tegal (Tegall                                  22   Jember (Jember                          7.   Pontianak                                   20.  Enrekang (Enrekang)
2.  Aceh Barat (Meulaboh)                     KABUPATEN                             7   Bresbes Bresbes)                    23   Banyuwangi (Banyuwangi)                                                                       KOTAMADYA
3.  Aceh Selatan (Tapaktuan)             1.  Musi Banyuasin (Sekeyu)                B.  ClacaP (Cilacap)                    24   Bangkalan (Bangkalan)                                                                    21.  Pare-Pare
4.  Aceh Tengah (Takengon)               2.  Mus, Rawas (lubukhrnggau)              q.  Banvymas (Purwokerto)               25   Sampang (Sampang)                     XVII PROVINCE OF CENTRAL KALIMANTAN  22   Ujeng Pandang
5,  Aceh Timur (Langsa)                  3.  Rejang Lebong (Curup)                  J.  PUirbohnggo (Purbolinggo)           26   Pamekasan (Pamekasan)                        KABUPATEN
6j   Aceh Utara (Lhoksumawe)             4.   Belitung (Tanjung Pandang)           II.  Banlarnegara (Baniarnegara)         27   Sumrenrp (Semenep)                           KABUPATEN
7.  7idi (Sigh)                          5   Lahat (Lahatl                         12.  Kebumen (Kabumen)                   28.  Ngarjuk (Nganjuk                        1.  Barito Utara Muara                         XXII  PROVINCE OF SOUTH-EAS
KOTAMADYA                            6.  Meara En m ngMUlr Enataiml            13.  Wemanosurba  (Wemanasano)           29   Magetan (Magetan)                      3   Kotawarmgmg Timur (Sampit)                        SULAWESI KABUPATEN
8Banda Aceh  7,  Ogan Komerng Ulu (Katuagung)  14 M T Imanggn (MaTemangug )KOTAMADYA                                           4.   Kotaamringin  arat (Pangkalanbun)           1.   Kendar (Kendari)
B.   Ogan Kamering 1hr (Keyuage.ng)      1 5.  Maelaglng (Msagelang)              30.  Kediri                                  s.  Becit Selatan (Bentok)                       2.   Kolaksa (Kolaka)
(I   PROVINCE OF NORTH SUMATRA  9.  Bangkd (Pangkalpineog)                          16.  Purworeja (Pu-ma,ja                 31   Biter iBlitai.   KOTAMADYA                                                              3.  Butok  IBaeBau3
KABUPATEN                                 KOTAMADYA                            17.  Selatiga ISalatiga)                 32.  Malang                                 B.  Palangkaaya                                         un (Raa
1.  Asahan (Tanjungbalai)                10.  Pangkalp.nang                        18.  Domak (Demak)                       33.   robohnggo6
2.  Dair, (S,dikalang)                   11.  Palembang                             19.  Jepara (Jepara)                     34,  Pasuruan
3.  Ka   K (Kbanijahe)                                                             20   KuduLs Kudus)                        35.  Moayaokrt                            XVIII PROVINCE OF SOUTH KALIMANTAN    XXIII PROVINCE OF NORTH SULAWESI
4.  Lang      (Bet eBPeeper)        VII  PROVINCE OF BENGKULL                  21.  Pati (Pat)                          36.  Surubaya                                    KABUPATEN                 -KABUPATEN
5.  Labuhen Batu (RaKau PraPat)                     PATEN                         22   Rembang (Rembang)                    37   Madien
6   Simelungun (Pematang Siantar)         1 KBrngk,i lutara                        23   Grebogan (Grobogan)                         a.  Barito Kuala (Martabahan)                                                         1.  Goronalo Osunu)
7   Tapaneli Utara (Tntn)2.  Baniar (Martapura)                                                                                                                                                                           2.  Balaang Mangandom  )Ketamobaguil
B   Tapanu elata (TPretng)Sdmun  2,  BangEelu Selatan                              24   Bloar (Bloar)                       XIII PROVINCE OF BALI                        3.  Hulu Suogai Salatan (Kandangan)              3.  Mirahiasa (Tondano)
9.  Tapanuli Tg' (Sbolg                   3.  Rejeng Lelbong                       25.  Srager (Sragen                            KABUPATEN                             4.  Kotabare (Ktatbaru) 
T0Dd   erdnga (SMboag)                  KOTAMADYA                            26.  Boyalali (Boyalalil                  1   Bu1leleg (Singeraja)                   5.  Hulu Suogal Terngeh (Barabai)                4.  Mnemda
11   Nias l(Gnung Siall)                   4      n3    Sukohatro (Sukohario)                                                 3  .  brn (Tabnean)                        6   Holu Sungai Utara (Amuntai)                  5.  Gorets o
KOTAMADYA                                                                     29.  Karanganyar (Karanganyar)            4 Bdag (Denpasa                                  KOTAMADYA
12.  Sibolga                             VIII PROVINCE OF LAMPUNG                   30.  Wonogir (Wanogiri)                   5.  Ban91 (Bang1                           7.   Banjarmasin                               XXIV  PROVINCE OF MALUKU
13   Medan                                     KABUPATEN                                  KOTAMADYA                           6   GDanyar (Gianyar)                                                                            KABUPATEN
14.  Pematang Siantar                      1.  Lampung Utara (Kota Bum)             31.  Semarang                             7   Khengkung (Klungkung)                                                                   1.  Maluku Teggah rMasohi)
15   Tanjung Balae                        2.  Lampung Tengah (Metro)                32   Pekalongan                           8.  Karan1sem (Karangasem)                XIX  PROVINCE OF EAST KALIMANTAN                  2.  Maluku Tenggara (Tual)
16.  Banja,                                3.   Lampung Selatan (Teluk Betng)       33.  Tegal                                                                                KABUPATEN                                   3.  Maluku Utara (Tenate)
17.  Tebing Ti.ggi                              KOTAMADYA                           34.  Magelang                                                                        1.  Bulongan (Tanjung Selor)                          KOTAMADYA
4.  Tanjung Karang                       35.  Salatiga                            XIV  PROVINCE OF WEST                       2   Bereau (Tanjung Redep)                       4.  Ambon
III PROVINCE OF WEST SUMATRA                                                       36.  Surekarta                                NUSA-TENGGARA  KABUPATFN               3.  Kutai (Tenggarong)
KABUPATEN                            IX   PROVINCE OF WEST JAVA                                                         1.  Lombok Barat (Mataram)                 4.  Pasir (Tanahgrogot)                         XXV PROVINCE OF WEST IBIAN
1l  Pasaman ILubuksikaping)                   KABUPATEN                           XI SPECIAL REGION OF JOGJAKARTA  2   Lombok Tengah (Praya)                                 KOTAMADYA                                        KABUPATEN
2.   Lima Puluh Kota (Payakumbeh)         1.  Serang (Serangl                         KABUPATEN                              3.  Lombok Timur ISelong)                  5.  Balikpapan                                        Teuk Code
3.  Agam IBukrttliggi)                    2   Tanggerang (Taoggeregn)               1.  Sleman (Slmen)                      4.  Sumabwa (Sumabwa Besar)                                                                  2.  Jeu  enderawasrh B)ak)
54 Sawah LDnto (Ssunjung4ar) 3.   Bkamis Bkeil)                                    2   Kelon Prge (Wales)                  56   Demp  (ompl)                            XX  PROVINCE OF CENTRAL SULAWESI                 3.  Jayawijaya Timur (Wamena)
6    Padang Pariaman (Pariamani           5   Kerawang (Karawmang)                 4   GOunnug Kidul (Wonosari)                                                              KABUPATEN                                   4.  JayawijaYa Barat (Enaretahj
7   Pasisir Selatan (Pamoan)              6.  Purwelerta (Puerkarta)                    KOTAMADYA                                                                       1.  Buol Toli-Toli (Toli-Tolil                   5.   Fakfak (Fakfak)
8.  Solok (Solok)                         7.  und,am~y. ar    r a                       Yo       tXV  PROVINCE OF EAST                                                  2.  Donggala (Palu)                              6.   Manokwari (Manokwari)
KOTAMADYA 8)   lrebon (d rebon)                                               5      ogyakart                               NUSA-TENGGARA  KABUPATtN               3.  Pse (Pose                                    7.  Merauke (Merauke)
9.  Padang                                9.  Kuningan (Kuningan)                                                                                                       4.   Banggai (Luwuk                             8.   Yapen Waropen (Serue)
10.  Padang Paniang                       10   Majalengka (Majalengka)             XIl  PROVINCE OF EAST JAVA                 1.  Sumba Barat (Weikabubak)                                                               9.  Sorong (Serong)
11   Bukettrnggi                          11.  Sumedang (Sumedang)                       KABUPATEN                            2.  Semba Timer (Waingapu)                 XXI PROVINCE OF SOUTH SULAWESI
12.  Payakumbuh                           12.  Subang                               1   SurabdYa (Surabaya)                   3.  Manggarai (Ruteng)                          KABUPATEN                                XXVI SPECIAL REGION OF JAKARTA
13.  Sawdh Lunto                          13.  Bogoa (Bogor)                        2   Giesik (Gresikl                       4.  Ngada (Balawa)                         1   Pangkajene dan Kepulauan (Pangkajene)            WILAYAH
IV PROVINCEOFRI-AU  14.  Lebak (Lebak)                        3 Lamengan (Lamongan)                     5 Endeh (Engh)                              2.  Maros (Maros)                               1.  Jakarta Barat
15   Pandaigelang (Panda geldeg)         4   Tuibes (Tehan)                        6.  Sika (Memumere)                         3.  Goa (Senggumirasa)                          2.  Jakarta Pusat
KABUPATEN                           16.  Sekabemi (Sekabemi)                  5.  Majokela (Mejorto)                    7.  Flares Timur (Larantuka)                4.  Takalar (Takalar)                          3.  Jakarta Selatan
1   Bengkahis (Bengkahs)                 17   Crenjur (Cianjur)                    6   Jambang (Jombang)                    6   Aloe (Kalabahil                         5.  Jenoponto (Jeneponto)                       4.  Jakarta Timur
2   Indragiri (Rongatl).Beu(taba
3.   Kampar (lBanginaing)                1B   Bandung (Bandung)                    7   Bojonego  IBaegro                     9   BleolAambu)             f              6.  Bertaeng (Bantaeng)                         5.  Jakarta Utara
4    Kepulauan Riau (Toanung Pinang)    19   Carer (Gare,t)   k                         N9 a- (Nga-1                        11   T,m.r Tengah Utan Soe)                  7.  Bulkumba (Balakumba)                            KOTAMADYA
KOTAMADYA                ~~~20   Tesrkmalaya (T-skmaleye)            9 Madien- (Median)                       11   Timer Tongah Selaten (Soe)             B.    ,a(Sn,)6 JkrtBrt
6 PKenTArADY                              KOTAMADYA                          10   Kei ri (Kedril                       12   Kupang                                 9.  Bone (Watampone)                            7.  Jakarta Pusat
5   Pakanharu                            21   Bandung                             11   Ponorogo (p--ag.)                                                                10.  Barru (Barru)                              B.  Jakarta Selatae
Iv   PROVINCE OF JAMBI                  22   Bagor                               12.  Pacitirn (Pacitanl                    XVI PROVINCE OF WEST KALIMANTAN  11.  Soppeng (WatamsoppenB)                               9.  Jakarta Timeu
KABUPATEN                           23   Cirebon                             13.  Treri-galek ITreeggalek)                   KABUPATEN                             12.  Wajo (Singkang)                           10.  Jakarta Utara
1 &T,n,g H- (Bat~~~~~~~mq Han) ~~14   Telengag-ng (Telerigagungl                                         1   Ponrierak (Menpowath)                 13.  Sider-eng-Rappang (PangkajoeneSidenreng(
2   Bu,go Tebo (Meara Burge)              X   PROVINCE OF CENTRAL JAVA   15   Bitai (Bliter)                                 2 Sanggau (Sanqgau)                        14   Pinrang (Pinrang)
3.  Keract (S,ngai Ponuh)                      KABUPATEN                          16   Mal-eig (Malang)



