Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY  FILEC COPy
Report No. P-2719-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
February 28, 1980
This doemnt hus a restricd dIsIbuton nd my be md by reckleats oly in the pehimmnsee df
thdr  Ua du"ts. ts content. may ust oterwise be dibcoed widtut World Bnk wtborzolon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         Rupiah
US$1.00          -    Rp 625
Rp 100                US$0.160
Rp 1 million          US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)                  0 0.039 inches
1 meter (m)                   =   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (km)              =   0.62 miles
1 square meter (sq m)         -   10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (sq km)   =   0.386 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                -   2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)               -   2.2 pounds
I metric ton (ton)            -   2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AAETE   -   Agency for Agricultural Education, Training and Extension
AARD    -   Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
BIMAS   -   Bimbingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan, "Mass Guidance for
Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs" - a farm input credit program
DGFCA   -   Directorate General of Food Crops Agriculture
DGT     -   Directorate General of Transmigration
INMAS   -   Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification" - a farm
input program
MOA     -   Ministry of Agriculture
NFCEP   -   National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND)
PPL     -   Penyuluh Pertanian Lapangan - field extension worker
PPM     -   Penyuluh Pertanian Madia - field extension supervisor
PPS     -   Penyuluh Pertanian Spesialis - extension subject matter
specialist
REC     -   Rural extension center
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           $42 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Proiect          The project's objective would be to raise the agricultural
Description:   productivity of a large proportion of Indonesia's nearly 16
million smallholder farming families, through systematic
transmission of improved techniques, plant varieties, and
inputs, by means of expanded and well-organized extension
services. The project would provide for: (a) strengthening
of the headquarters project management unit; (b) an increase
in the numbers of field extension workers and supervisors
and of subject matter specialists; (c) completion of a
national network of rural extension centers; construction of
staff housing and expansion of project headquarters facili-
ties; (d) procurement of vehicles, equipment and furniture;
(e) production of extension materials; (f) overseas and
local training courses; and (g) provision of consultants'
services.
It is expected that a minimum of 2.8 million farm families
would avail themselves of improved extension services to be
provided under the project, resulting in an increased pro-
duction of a wide variety of food and tree crops, livestock
and pond fish. Production benefits have been calculated on
the basis of projected increases in production of nearly
100,000 tons of rice, 30,000 tons of maize, 11,000 tons of
rubber, 32,000 tons of copra, and smaller increases in
several secondary food crops and poultry products. Experi-
ence to date with the National Food Crops Extension Project
(Loan 1267-IND) shows no evidence of particular technical
or economic risks; any possible risks of organizational
difficulties would be extremely unlikely to reduce the
economic rate of return to an unacceptable level.
This document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: The table below summarizes the estimated cost of the
project:
Local    Foreign    Total
-------($ million)-------
Civil works                      10.2        3.4        13.6
Passenger vehicles                0.5        3.9         4.4
Materials and equipment           2.4        4.3         6.7
Training and consultants          7.0        2.2         9.2
Subtotal                     20.1       13.8        33.9
Incremental operating costs    22.8           -         22.8
Base cost                    42.9       13.8        56.7
Physical contingencies            2.0        1.3         3.3
Price contingencies              18.9        3.0        21.9
Total project cost           63.8       18.1        81.9
Financing Plan:                  Local    Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
IDA             28.9       13.2      42.0
Government      34.9        5.0/1    39.9
Total         63.8       18.2      81.9
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY              1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual               0.4    4.6    8.0   14.0   12.0    3.0
Cumulative           0.4    5.0   13.0   27.0   39.0   42.0
Rate of Return: 33%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2711-IND dated February 14,1980.
/1 Vehicles provided by the Government under reserved procurement.



REPORT AND RECOliMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION II PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $42 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance the National Agricultural Exten-
sion II Project.
PART I - THE ECONCMY /1
2.        An economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Progress
and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
mission recently visited Indonesia and a Country Economic Memorandum is
being prepared.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of 2 million sq km. W4ith
over 135 million people, it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The
population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km in Java, where 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country. About 82% of the population live in rural areas and although
agriculture only accounts for slightly over 30% of GDP, about 62% of total
employment is still found in the agricultural sector. GNP per capita is
estimated at $360./2
4.        Over the last thirteen years, Indonesia's economic, social and
institutional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated
poor countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertability of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74) a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% per annum was achieved. During
Repelita II, (1974/75 to 1978/79) economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Rubber Development Project, (No.P-2696-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R80-21, dated January 30, 1980 and approved by the Executive
Directors on February 19, 1980.
/2 1978 figures. World Bank Atlas, 1979.



-2-
$4.0 billion /1 in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to
increase by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate.
Not all sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the performance
of non-extractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and palm
oil, has been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated
since 1971, and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of
sustained growth. In addition, there has been little evidence, despite
increased foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the
economy has been assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial
sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the
economy - an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been
impressive, views diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in
this increased income. The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976
indicate that while overall income disparities almost certainly widened
between those two dates, there was nevertheless a considerable improvement
in the consumption of all income groups, with real consumption expenditure
of the bottom 40% of the population probably increasing at between 3.5% and
5.5% annually. Growth in per capita income was generally higher in Java
than in the Other Islands and higher in urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employ-
ment during this period was absorbed in non-agricultural activities,
resulting from a decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to
62%. Within the non-agricultural sector, employment increases largely
resulted in proliferating small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and
service sectors, where productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



Planning, 45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and Water Supply, resulting
in the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by
1977; between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and
primary school enrollment is expected to reach 85% in 1979, up from 60% in
1974. Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second
Development Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning
Program, established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate
to below 2%. Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali,
where almost 30% of married women in the reproductive age group are
practicing modern methods of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty
problem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public
services remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over
one third of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at
1976 prices and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was
seriously underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the
continued prevalence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem
directly from nutritional deficiencies and unsanitary living conditions,
results in extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality
rate. Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent
estimate) compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in
Malaysia. For the same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively
126, 65 and 35 per thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000
infants less than one year old die. These statistics reflect both low
incomes and the-underlying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100
million Indonesians remain without access to safe water or sanitary excreta
disposal; there are only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the
population; and almost 40% of the adult population are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Non-oil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has also
recognized this in Repelita III. Three primary goals have been specified: a
more equitable distribution of the benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and
national stability. A high priority must now be given to the industrial
sector since neither agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the
large projected increases in the labor force (1.4 million per annum up to the
year 2,000) and simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.        The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from Rp
415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978.  Its purpose was to reverse



- 4 -
some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had occurred
earlier in the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources away from the
non-traded goods sector towards labor-intensive import substitution and export
industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III and the devaluation, the
Government has also simplified the investment licencing process and exporting
procedures and introduced a system of export certificates - tax rebates to
encourage exporters. A new corporation tax law was promulgated in March 1979
providing greater incentives to entreprenuers, particularly those in
smaller-scale ventures and those using the services of a public accountant.
On the monetary side a start has been made in making the commercial banking
system more responsive to the needs of small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvments have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable but it is unlikely that
the external sector will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been
enjoyed by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term it is
more likely that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large
domestic market. However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced
in order to provide appropriate market signals and to encourage those
sectors in which a genuine comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff
structure is probably less significant than the high administrative costs
and delays associated with importing. The important improvements made in
exporting procedures over the last year have demonstrated that rapid changes
can be made in this area. Similar advances on the import side would improve
resource allocation by reducing the proliferation of domestic industries
that have little prospect of ever attaining international competitiveness.
In many countries devaluation has been accompanied by a rationalization of
the tariff structure. Although this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the
recent increases in oil revenues have, by substantially increasing foreign
exchange reserves, provided an additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the non-oil terms of trade, and the oil



price rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance
of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to the
devaluation .-nan to favorable developments in the world prices of primary
commodities./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus of over
$700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the increase in
the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980. This is
expected to generate additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1 billion in
1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since
over half of the Government's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange,
an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary
revenues in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases, budget
revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79
to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private indus-
trial enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and
monetary stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example, in
the measures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary effects
of the devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under control,
sometimes tended to counteract the desired effects of the devaluation.
Notable here was the tight control exerted over private sector credit crea-
tion which may have limited investment in those expert sectors that the
devaluation was designed to encourage. In addition, the increased foreign
exchange revenue presents potentially difficult problems of monetary manage-
ment. The manner in which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb imports
effectively will be a primary determinant of Indonesia's future growth pros-
pects.
Domestic Resource Mlobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both increase in export revenues
and the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long
run, however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how
quickly Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and
because projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It
is therefore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic
financial resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated
by its stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To
/1 The non-oil terms of trade improved by almost 42% between October 1978
and February 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
this end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average
of about 40% in April and May 1979, although the budget savings have since
been nullified by increases in international prices. There is considerable
scope for improving the non-oil tax base, which account for less than 45%
of total revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes
amount to only 3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding
the tax base, eliminating loopholes, and improving administration are the
obvious means of securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The
mobilization of private sector financial resource is hindered at present by
the absence of attractive long-term financial instruments, but the
Government's encouragement of the fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will
hopefully result in an important source of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the princi-
pal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. Total ODA (bilateral and multilateral) commitments in
1977/78 (including grants) amounted to about $1.4 billion; the IGGI (including
the Bank Group and Asian Development Bank) accounted for over 90% of this.
The Bank's most recent economic report on Indonesia recommends that total ODA
reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979/80, of which at least 70% should be on
concessional and semi-concessional terms. At the meeting of the IGGI in April
1979 the indications of probable commitments in 1979/80 made by bilateral and
multilateral IGGI members amounted to about this level; the meeting therefore
concluded that the Bank's recommendations would be approximately met.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
16.       As of December 31, 1979, Indonesia had received 44 IDA credits
totalling $769.8 million, and 45 Bank loans amounting to $2,575.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977
was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 8.3% and 3%,
respectively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of December 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the
rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities,
meeting the critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance
needed for pre-investment studies and project execution. As the focus of the
Government's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive
capacity in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as
improvement in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust
of Bank Group lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Rubber Development Project, (No.P-2696-IND), circulated under cover of
IDA/R80-21, dated January 30, 1980 and approved by the Executive Directors
on February 19, 1980.



-7 -
critical importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment,
food security and exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects has
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production
and distribution, transportation, education, urban development, water supply,
rural development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small industry development), power, telecommunications, population and
technical assistance.
18.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. While the Govern-
ment's agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment
opportunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is
primarily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent
labor-intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank
plans to expand significantly its hitherto modest involvement in this
sector. As part of this initiative, an operation designed to support
several industrial DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank
Indonesia) is at an advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support
export processing zones and wood processing, and further to expand Bank
assistance to small-scale enterprise are at various stages of identification
and preparation. A comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial
sector is being initiated to provide the necessary understandings and backup
for this expanded operation.
19.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank Group
lending are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation
will continue to absorb a substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural
lending; however, the Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote
secondary food crops (para. 26 below). For example, the proposed Second
Agriculture Extension, and future Second Agriculture Research and Second Seeds
projects would give greater emphasis to these crops. Continued support for
the provision of basic services (population, education, health, nutrition,
urban development and water supply) as well as the traditional sectors (power
and transport) is also anticipated. Since it is clear that the achievement of
the Government's employment and equity objectives will become increasingly
dependent on the development of appropriate sectoral policy packages and
strategies, institutions, and staff development, it is expected that the focus
of the above operations will gradually broaden to a subsector and sector
approach. The proposed sectoral approach is designed to enable Bank Group
assistance to be responsive to these demands, and to continue its
institution-building efforts in a broader context than has been done hitherto.
20.       Although Indonesia's project implementation performance is
generally in line with the overall average for the Bank, both the Bank and



- 8 -
the Government have become increasingly concerned about the level of
disbursements, which has shown a declining trend in the past three years.
While some of this decline is accounted for by a shift in several sectors
towards "newer" type poverty-oriented projects, many of the problems appear
to be related to the Government's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and
payment procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of
letters of credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe
shortages of both managerial and technical manpower.  A number of steps have
been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recomnendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project specific problems and work out
corrective measures.  The first of these reviews was held in early March 1979
and a second, more comprehensive one, in June. In addition, a procurement
seminar (planned to be the first of a series) was held in Jakarta in September
1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past few months
the Government announced several measures to streamline the more complex
budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally
to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are
now being presented for Board approval at a later stage in the project cycle.
It is still too early to assess the effect of these steps on project
implementation, but improvements are expected.
21.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of Bank Group subsequent lending has been
through IBRD loans.  Although Indonesia's foreign exchange earnings are
expected to increase further as a result of the recent oil price rise, a
portion of Bank Group lending will still be on IDA terms, primarily on the
ground of poverty - per capita GNP ($360 in 1978) is well below the IDA cutoff
of $625. Given the uncertainty of the effect of the recent oil price
increases on Indonesia's resource constraints, the issue of IDA lending beyond
the current fiscal year will be kept under regular review. In the past,
because of domestic resource constraints, the Bank has financed local costs,
particularly in high priority projects in the rural sector. However, because
of the increased availability of finance following the recent oil price
increases, financing of local costs will be progressively reduced and will
only be limited to occasions where it will make a significant contribution to
the project.
22.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy
discussed above, constitutes the sixth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year, and would bring total lending to date in
FY80 to $359.0 million. Projects for agricultural research, nucleus estates
and smallholders, and power are expected to be ready for presentation in the
next few months.



- 9 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
23.       The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to : (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increases domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder tree
crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land, water
and other natural resources.
24.       Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of agricultural production
since 1968, the contribution of the agricultural sector to GDP has declined
from 40% to 30% over that period. Agriculture's relative share in total
exports has simultaneously declined from 45% to 33%, a result mainly of the
marked increase in importance of oil exports. Nevertheless, the agricultural
and rural sector remains of overwhelming importance to the great majority of
Indonesians in terms of food production, income, and employment. Nearly 80%
of the population lives in rural areas, agriculture employs over 60% of the
total labor force, and about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of
urban households rely on agriculture as their major source of income.
25.       The share of the total labor force employed in the agricultural
sector has apparently decreased over the past 15 years, although estimation is
difficult due to shifting definitions and seasonal timing of surveys. In
spite of its declining share, agriculture has remained by far the largest
single source of new employment, accounting for 46% of incremental employment
during the period 1971-76. Furthermore, while the articulation and implemen-
tation of a coherent industrial strategy are critical to Indonesia's long-term
development, the results of the Government's agricultural policies could have
a much greater influence on employment in the immediate future. Outside Java,
future employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising, given the
employment potential for sustained increases in smallholder areas, land and
irrigation development and publicly sponsored and spontaneous transmigration.
Rehabilitation of irrigation systems on Java was responsible for the
generation of significant employment opportunities in the last decade, and
similar projects could provide additional construction and farm employment.
In the short and medium term, the Government rural works program is also
being used to generate employment in the rural sector.
26.       Food Crops.  Given the limited manpower and financial resources
available, the Government's agricultural strategy over the past decade has
concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the preferred staple food
of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production increased rapidly
(4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to an expanded program of
irrigation rehabilitation and to providing irrigated rice producers with high-
yielding variety seed, fertilizer, and short-term production credit. The
growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% over 1974-77, in the wake of restrictions
on private sector participation in the fertilizer trade and subsequent severe



- 10 -
declines in fertilizer usage, successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and
unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases, principally, the brown plant
hopper and associated viruses. In 1978, a record rice harvest was achieved,
with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and a
successful effort to distribute pest-resistant rice varieties throughout the
country. Over the same decade output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava,
soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at a combined annual
rate of 1.6%, composed of a 1.1% average decline in area (much of this land
shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% increase in yield.
27.       These gains in food output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4% p.a.
increase in demand, created by increases in population and by rising incomes.
Over the decade, Indonesia has become the largest rice importer in the world,
with record imports of 2.3 million tons in the poor harvest year of 1977,
declining to about 1.3 million tons in 1978. Wheat imports rose to 1.4
million tons in 1978. A recent Bank study /1 concluded that Indonesia would
continue to face a basic food deficit up to at least 1990, when the rice
deficit alone could be between 2 million and 3 million tons, even assuming
expanded government programs in the food crop sector (e.g., irrigation),
improved technology, more efficient credit and marketing systems, improved
extension, and a consequent 3.5% annual growth rate of food production. Thus
the general food security prospect is not encouraging.
28.       Tree Crops.  Tree crop products have for decades been an important
source of export income for Indonesia, and still generate about two-thirds of
total non-oil export revenues. Tree crops occupyimore than a third of total
cropped land, with coconuts and rubber accounting for 80% of tree crop stands.
Eighty percent of the area under rubber is owned by smallholders, the
remainder by Government and private estates. Coconuts, coffee, cloves and
pepper are almost entirely smallholder crops, while tea and oil palm are
chiefly cultivated on estates. Although Indonesia has profited from recent
world price trends for its tree crops, production of rubber and coffee stag-
nated between 1969 and 1976. For example, some 95% of smallholder rubber
consists of unselected clones with yields half those of smallholder rubber in
neighboring Malaysia. Deteriorating transport infrastructure and shipping in
the Other Islands since the 1950's, and inadequate tree crop research,
extension, and particularly replanting programs for smallholders have
contributed to the stagnation in smallholder tree crop production. Only oil
palm has shown sustained significant increases in production due to large
investment programs by Government and private estates.
29.       One new approach to revitalizing the tree crop sector, which is
being supported by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
(NES) projects (Loans 1499-, 1604- and 1751-IND), is that Government-owned
estates plant and maintain rubber and oil palm on previously undeveloped
/1 Report No. 2374-IND, "Indonesia - Supply Prospects for Major Food
Crops," of March 3, 1979.



- 11 -
land for three years, using farmers selected to be settlers as employees,
and thereafter supply the settlers with inputs, extension, and processing
facilities. Wihile the NES approach has been mainly for new settlers, the
Government has also initiated national programs to assist geographically
concentrated groups of existing smallholders to replant rubber or coconuts
themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project Management Units
(PMUs). Attention is now also starting to be given to the potentials for a
low-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on management.
Given the good market prospects and employment potential for these crops,
and the Other Islands' land availability and natural comparative advantage
in them, the rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops, using all suitable
approaches, is a high priority.
30.       Area Development and Transmigration.  The existence of critically
poor areas of Java and availability of productive areas for settlement and
development on the Other Islands have provided the foci of rural programs to
meet basic needs and to generate employment, productivity and income. Culti-
vable land in Java is almost fully utilized, and in some areas, particularly
in the higher watersheds of its silt-laden rivers, agricultural land use
already exceeds ecologically safe limits. This is contributing to increasing-
ly severe problems of erosion, flooding, and siltation. The Government is
preparing programs for rural improvement and watershed development designed to
address these problems. Meanwhile, the transmigration program is likely to be
the primary vehicle for new area development in the Other Islands, and would
provide employment and settlement nuclei for Javanese and Balinese migrants.
The program has been hampered by overly ambitious targets and poor coordina-
tion and implementation. Under the Government's recent extensive reorganiza-
tion of the program's management, responsibilities for project implementation
were transferred to the line agencies normally responsible for each sector.
The reorganization is an important step, but will require support by continued
attention to technical and policy issues including: appropriate farm models
for food and tree crop production; appropriate target incomes; the extent of
government support to settlers; the provision of adequate support services and
marketing mechanisms; and the potential role of spontaneous migration. The
second transmigration project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND, approved on
lIay 29, 1979), financed by the Bank Group, explicitly addresses these issues.
31.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  There is general agreement between
the Bank and the Government on the overall objectives and strategies pro-
posed for the rural sector.  While views sometimes differ on the relative
emphasis to be given to different investments and on the technical design of
some projects, such differences are not impeding Bank operations generally
and can usually be resolved by further analysis and dialogue. Since the
first of 13 irrigation projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group has
rapidly expanded its agricultural lending. In 1978, a Sector Operations
Review entitled "The Agricultural Program in Indonesia" (Report No. 2166,
dated August 9, 1978) concluded that despite deficiencies in some projects,
the Bank's portfolio in Indonesian agriculture was "of overall good quality
and likely to contribute substantially to increased production." To further
that aim within the context of the Government's overall agricultural strategy,
future Bank Group agricultural lending is expected to focus on four issues:
(a) The production of secondary crops. To develop the considerable agronomic



- 12 -
potential of these crops in Indonesia, the Bank Group has embarked on a
major effort designed to encourage the Government in giving high priority to
this subsector. This will be reflected in the Bank Group's economic and
sector work program and the lending program in particular, through the pro-
posed second phase projects for agricultural research, extension and seeds;
(b) A diversified irrigation program to intensify rice cropping on Java and
to extend water management to the Other Islands. In this subsector the Bank
Group will pay special attention to institutional improvements to increase
the Government's capacity to undertake a greater variety and volume of work
and to engage in meaningful sectoral planning; (c) Smallholder tree crop
planting programs. Here the Bank Group plans to provide substantial tech-
nical support through future nucleus estates and smallholders (NES) projects,
to strengthen Government institutions so that eventually a subsector lending
approach for NES may become feasible. In view of the established smallholder
tree crop production (80-90% of total area under tree crops), the Bank group
is actively pursuing ways to develop coherent support programs for these
traditional producers. In addition to the Smallholder Rubber Development
Project, recently approved by the Executive Directors, even lower cost
approaches are being explored; (d) Area development and transmigration. The
focus of Bank Group efforts here will be, first, to support and closely
monitor these complex projects, and, second, eventually to shift the focus
of transmigration away from fairly narrow resettlement schemes and to place
it in the broader context of development of the Other Islands. Bank group's
assistance to agriculture projects has been and will continue to be comple-
mented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income distri-
bution, irrigation, agriculture support services and food crop production
have been completed, and reviews of the rubber subsector, transmigration
program, secondary food crops, land tenure systems and supply and demand for
technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are now under way.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.       Formulation and preparation of the proposed project grew directly
from experience gained in implementing the National Food Crops Extension
Project (NFCEP, Loan 1267-IND). Preparation reports have been produced by the
NFCEP project unit with the assistance of consultants, engaged under Loan
1267-IND, and a Bank preappraisal mission in November 1978. The project was
appraised in March 1979. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2711-IND dated
February 14, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington from
January 21 to February 1, 1980 with an Indonesian delegation led by
Mr. Wardojo, the Director General of Food Crop Agriculture, Ministry of
Agriculture.
33.       The NFCEP was approved by the Executive Directors on May 25, 1976.
Since its inception, the project has reorganized, expanded and equipped
provincial food crops agricultural departments in 13 provinces, and has intro-
duced the training and visit system as the guiding organizational principle of
field agricultural extension for food crops in Indonesia. The basic prin-
ciples of this system include the organization of the farmer population into



- 13 -
farmer groups, the instruction of those groups by extension field workers on
a regularly scheduled basis, the biweekly training and briefing of the field
workers in technical agricultural recommendations by subject matter special-
ists, and the training of subject matter specialists in recent research
results pertinent to their fields of concentration. The incremental staff
required to implement this system has largely been recruited on schedule, and
the field workers and supervisors have in general been well managed by the
provincial departments under active supervision by the headquarters project
unit. The vehicles procured under the project, including motorcycles,
bicycles, and four-wheel drive vehicles, has provided the essential mobility
required by the various levels of staff to fulfill their responsibilities
within the system. In addition, the project provided for the construcion and
equipping of a network of small rural extension centers in major food crop
production areas within the project provinces, overseas and domestic training
programs, and consultant assistance in administrative and technical functions.
These components have progressed less rapidly than the organization and imple-
mentation of fieldwork, but recently they too have accelerated. Organiza-
tional aspects which require further strengthening are the staffing levels and
division of functions within the headquarters project unit to facilitate
improved administration of service functions (training, budgeting, procure-
ment, and coordination with other programs), and better management of the
subject matter specialists in the provinces to upgrade the routine briefing
of extension field workers.
34.       The objective of the proposed project would be to raise the
agricultural productivity of the maximum possible proportion of Indonesia's
nearly 16 million smallholder farming families, through the systematic trans-
mission of improved techniques, and to a lesser extent, through improved plant
varieties and inputs, by means of expanded and well organized extension
services. The proposed project would follow up the achievements to date of
the NFCEP, utilizing the basic organizational structure and extension method-
ology established under that project to:
(a) complete the establishment of a basic food crops extension
service in 13 Provinces not covered by the NFCEP;
(b) establish an integrated extension service for transmigration areas
including those schemes still in the establishment phase and those
currently under active preparation; and
(c) incorporate extension activity for smailholder estate (commercial)
crops, animal husbandry and inland fish culture, and soil conser-
vation and reafforestation into the basic extension program and
delivery system heretofore utilized exclusively for food crops.
35.       At present, the new extension service is operating rather well
at field level in the 13 NFCEP provinces. Although problems exist, they can
be corrected over time, and with the experience gained thus far, expanding the
basic food crops extension system to the remaining provinces will not be
unduly difficult. The time has thus arrived to introduce, selectively and in
phases, extension of information for non-food crops and smallholder livestocks
and fisheries, in areas where those activities provide major components of



- 14 -
farmers' incomes. This step is important both to utilize more effectively the
information delivery system already developed, and to generate more farmer
interest in the extension process itself, which should also improve the
effectiveness of food crops extension. Limited to food crops, the present
system does not attract the desirable level of farmer participation in areas
where most farmers receive most of their cash incomes from rubber, coconuts,
cloves, tobacco, cattle raising and fishponds.  Expanding the scope of the
extension effort to the non-food subsectors is the major technical objective
of the proposed National Agricultural Extension II Project.
Project Description
36.       The proposed project would cover the 26 provinces of Indonesia and
would provide for:
(a) strengthening of the headquarters project management unit to
enable efficient administration and programming of the expanded
extension program and improved provision of support services
to provincial extension staff;
(b) an increase in extension staff of about 5,200 field extension
workers, 1,120 field extension supervisors, and 600 subject matter
specialists, including those required for transmigration scheme
areas;
(c) completion of a national network of about 1,120 rural extension
centers, construction of a limited amount of staff housing in
remote areas, and expansion of project headquarters facilities;
(d) procurement of equipment, and furniture and provision of vehicles;
(e) production and procurement of extension materials;
(f) training of various levels of extension staff in technical and
methodological matters, through a limited number of overseas
courses and fellowships, and a large number of local training
courses; and
(g) consultant assistance in formulation of agricultural extension
recommendations, engineering and supervision of construction,
management, and execution of an organizational study.
While all the foregoing aspects of the extension program would be completed
during the five-year project period (1980-84), the refinement and enrichment
of extension content and methodology is an ongoing process which would proceed
beyond formal project completion.
Extension Methodology
37.       Under the proposed project, the numbers of field workers would be
increased to reduce the ratio of workers to farmers to an average of 1:1,000.



- 15 -
Coverage of the non-food crop subsectors would be achieved through the
recruitment of nearly 400 subject matter specialists in the fields of estate
(commercial) crops, livestock, inland fisheries, and reforestation and soil
conservation, who would be assigned to train and brief field workers in
detailed agricultural recommendations to be delivered to their farmer groups.
The project would also provide another 200 food crops subject matter special-
ists to areas not covered by the NFCEP, and would provide a full complement
of agricultural extension staff to serve a minimum of 120,000 settler families
in ongoing and planned transmigration schemes in 18 provinces. Special train-
ing courses in various aspects of extension methodology would be provided
to all new field staff, while field extension workers would be given basic
technical courses in the new subsector fields during the year prior to the
initiation of field extension for those activities in their districts.
Organization and Management
38.       The proposed project would be managed at the national level by the
NFCEP project unit, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Directorate
General of Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA) in the Ministry of Agriculture.
The project unit would remain within DGFCA pending:
(i)  submission to the Association, no later than 3 months after
its completion, of the final report of an organizational
study, recommending steps to unify agricultural extension
services under the coordination of the Agency for Agricultural
Education, Training, and Extension (AAETE);
(ii)  discussions between the Government and the Association on the
recommendations of the above mentioned study and agreement on
steps to strengthen AAETE's capabilities; and
(iii)  agreement between the Government and Association on
reallocation of project implementation responsibilities
(Section 3.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).
This unit would be expanded to cope with the increased management, service,
technical, and coordination requirements of the proposed project, primarily
through the addition of six senior level staff to supplement the four Assist-
ant Directors responsible for supervision of field extension activities in
the NFCEP provinces. Two of the new managers would be assigned to field
supervision, one to developing the extension program in transmigration areas,
and three would assume responsibility for developing and managing the head-
quarters functional divisions responsible for technical support, adminis-
tration, and finance. Assurances have been obtained that a total of 50
professional and 32 support staff positions in the headquarters project
unit, including those of the project director, 6 assistant directors, 4
division chiefs, and staff of 9 functional sections would be created and the



- 16 -
Government would use its best efforts to fill them filled on a full-time
basis by July 1, 1980 (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Actual field implementation of the extension program, including
the recruitment of field extension workers and supervisors, would be the
responsibility of the respective provincial food crops agricultural
departments, as under the NFCEP.
Technical Assistance
39.       Consultant technical assistance in direct support of project
implementation would fall into three categories: general advisory services
to project management (three expatriate advisors for a total of 22 man-
months); short-term technical assistance in reviewing and revising extension
recommendations for the entire range of smallholder agricultural activities
to be covered by the extension system (23 local and expatriate consultants
for a total of 90 man-months); and architecture and design of project civil
works, to be executed by local engineering firms. With regard to the second
category of technical assistance, due to the magnitude of the organizational
task involved and the importance of obtaining the services of highly
qualified individuals, assurances have been obtained that a consultant
organization with experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association
would be engaged to assist in the selection, recruitment, and supply of
services of technical agricultural consultants.  In addition individual
consultants would be employed to undertake a one-year study to develop
recommendations for strengthening and improving the organization and manage-
ment of agricultural extension services in Indonesia, with particular refer-
ence to strengthening the role of AAETE (paras. 36 and 38) (Section 3.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
40.       The total project cost is estimated at $81.9 million, of which
$18.2 million (22%) is foreign exchange. The cost estimates include physical
contingencies of 10% for all cost items except incremental field staff.
Expected price increases amount to 37% of base costs (in early 1980 prices)
plus physical contingencies. Consultants costs, including allowance for
overhead, housing, and travel would range from $10,000 per man-month for
short-term expatriate consultants, to $9,000 for long-term expatriate
management advisers, $7,000 for expatriate assistance for the organizational
study, and $3,000 per man-month for local experts. Costs of local
engineering firm services are estimated at 7% of the value of civil works.
41.       The proposed IDA credit of $42 million would finance $13.5 million
in foreign costs or, 100% of the foreign exchange cost of the project,
excepting the foreign exchange cost of passenger vehicles, which would be
provided by the Govermnent, and $28.9 million in local costs. The Government
would provide the remaining $39.9 million from its annual budget allocations.



- 17 -
Recurrent Costs
42.       An assessment has been made of the impact of the project and related
build-ups of staff, facilities, equipment, and levels of activity on budgets
for agricultural extension activities during and beyond the project period.
Estimated recurrent expenditures on extension by the NFCEP Project Unit, the
DGFCA, and che provincial food crops agricultural departments were $12.4
million in 1979 in current prices, of which $9.9 million (80%) was for
salaries and allowances. Recurrent costs are expected to stabilize at about
$26.2 million (in early 1980 currency values) in 1985, after project comple-
tion, of which $20.4 million (78%) would consist of salaries and allowances.
This level of spending is both within the fiscal capability of the Government
and, at $1.50 per smallholder family per annum, quite modest in cost for
such a basic service.
Procurement /1
43.       Civil Works.  Nearly all project civil works (totalling $13.5
million) would consist of the construction or upgrading of small rural
installations or houses, representing an expenditure of no more than $15,000
at any location. Even when grouped in provincial construction packages,
contracts would average less than $500,000 in value, in no case exceeding
$1.5 million, and would thus be unsuitable for ICB. All civil works would
thus be carried out following competitive bidding advertised locally. Local
contracting procedures have been reviewed by the Association and, with the
following assurances, are acceptable to the Association: (a) the project
unit would prepare, by July 1, 1980, standard civil works tender and contract
documents which, after approval by the Association, would be used for all
project civil works; (b) bids would be evaluated in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines; and (c) for contracts estimated to cost $1 million or
more, documents would be submitted to the Association for review before
tender and award (paras. C.1 and D.1 of Schedule 3 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
44.       Vehicles, Equipment and Materials.  Passenger vehicles, specific-
ally including four-wheel vehicles and related trailers ($2.3 million),
motorcycles ($1.8 million), and bicycles ($200,000), would be procured
locally and financed entirely by the Government due to the Government's
policy prohibiting most vehicle imports; as this is "reserved procurement,"
these vehicles would not be eligible for Bank Group financing or disburse-
ment under the proposed project in accordance with Bank Group policy.
Office and technical equipment and mobile extension units worth a total of
$2.5 million would be procured under ICB in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines, and would be grouped in large enough contract packages to
attract international competition. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f.
price of imported goods, or the level of customs duty, whichever is lower,
would be extended to qualified local manufacturers of such items in the
evaluation of bids. Extension materials ($2.0 million), boats and horses
($0.5 million), and simple agricultural tools, extension and office
/1 All contract values presented in this section are expressed in base costs
in beginning 1980 currency values.



- 18 -
equipment, and furniture not suited for international competitive bidding
($1.2 million) would be procured after competitive bidding advertised locally.
Certain proprietary extension material items, such as standard textbooks,
journal subscriptions and rental films (worth a total of about $500,000) would
be procured directly from either domestic or international authorized
suppliers where only one source is available, or on the basis of competitive
quotations where this option exists, after prior approval by the Association.
All contracts for supplies, equipment and materials estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more would be submitted to the Association for
review before bidding and award.
Disbursements
45.       Disbursements of the proposed credit would cover 100% of total costs
for civil works, consultants' services, training, courses and fellowships;
100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported materials and equipment;
95% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured materials and equipment;
65% of total costs of imported equipment and materials procured locally.
Disbursements for nonroutine in-service training would be made on the basis of
certified summaries of training courses implemented, which would include (a)
the topic, location, and duration of each course, (b) the service grades and
numbers of trainees completing the course, (c) a certification of these data
by the project unit's chief training coordinator and the Project Director, and
(d) a computation of reimbursable costs derived from the total number of
trainee-days for each course and an agreed reimbursable cost per trainee-day.
For calendar 1980, such reimbursable unit costs have been agreed with the
Government. For each subsequent year, the unit costs would be updated based
on analysis of current actual costs by the project unit and supervision
missions, and the Association would inform the Government of revisions in
those reimbursable costs to prevail during the subsequent year. Records of
training courses signed by each trainee upon completion would be maintained at
provincial or local levels for inspection by project management staff.
Disbursements would not be made against the salaries of incremental field
staff ($33.7 million), which are included in the total project cost.
46.       The DGFCA will maintain a consolidated project account and be
responsible for submitting all reimbursement applications to the Association.
Assurances were obtained that auditors acceptable to the Association would
audit the project account and that the audited financial statements, together
with the auditor's comments would be submitted to the Association no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
47.       It is expected that a minimum of 2.8 million farm families would
avail themselves of improved extension services to be provided under the proj-
ect, resulting in an increased production of a wide variety of food and tree
crops, livestock and pond fish. Production benefits have been calculated on
the basis of projected increases in production of nearly 100,000 tons of rice,
30,000 tons of maize, 11,000 tons of rubber, 32,000 tons of copra, and smaller



- 19 -
increases in several secondary food crops and poultry products.  The assess-
ment of the potential impact of the project was narrowed to the estimation of
yield increases for certain major commodities produced widely throughout
Indonesia, which would be readily amenable to production increases through
improved extension, and for which some micro-level data are available. These
include the major food crops (rice, maize, groundnuts, soybeans and cassava),
rubber and coconuts among the tree crops, freshwater pond fish, and poultry
for meat and eggs. For the selected representative crops, a potential
incremental yield was estimated based on the projected impact of extension
alone, assuming only relatively simple improvements in cultivation practices
and a minimum of additional purchased inputs, and without major on-farm
investments. These assumed yield increments are far below the genetic
potential of existing varieties and below increases attainable with more
intensive specialized programs. Farmer participation in the project was
projected on a model of the actual implementation of extension at field level,
where success or failure depends on the field worker's ability to organize a
group and a visiting schedule, to build close rapport with at least a minimum
number of enthusiastic leading farmers, and to improve their practices and by
demonstration, their neighbors' practices. Based on this model, three
categories of farmers were defined:
(a) fully participating farmers following most of the field worker's
recommendations and achieving 100% of the potential yield increment
discussed above. It is estimated that 2 farmers in each farmer
group (totalling between 50 and 100 farmers) would fall into this
category, equivalent to 32 farmers per field worker in cases where
the field worker handles 16 farmer groups;
(b) partially participating farmers, who follow many of the recommenda-
tions of the field worker and achieve 50% of the potential yield
increment. It is estimated that 5 farmers in each group (up to 80
per field worker) would fall into this category; and
(c) marginally participating farmers, who in general do not
attend meetings and learn new practices from following their
neighbors' examples. About 15 farmers in each group (up to
240 per field worker) would fall into this category, and
would attain about 20% of the potential yield increment.
On the basis of these assumptions, calculation of project benefits is based
on yield increases by about one-third of the farmers served by the project.
Project M4onitoring
48.       The Management and extension advisors (para. 39) would assist the
project unit in refining the monitoring and evaluation program developed and
implemented under the NFCEP with the assistance of local university
faculties, which has already produced conclusions of use in the training and
management of extension field staff.



- 20 -
49.       Rate of Return and Risks.  The indicative project economic rate of
return based on the foregoing set of conservative assumptions is 35%. As the
project assumes no varietal improvements, negligible increases in input usage,
and yield increases far below the genetic potential of existing varieties by
a small proportion of the farmers served, there is little risk that technical
factors would prevent this return from being achieved. Farmer participation
is subject to some risk, due either to resistance by farmers to such an
intensive system of extension or to problems in organizing the extension
system (beyond those faced already under the NFCEP) in sparsely populated
regions and across the entire range of agricultural subsectors.  On the
basis of this assessment, sensitivity analysis of the economic impact of the
project concentrated on evaluating the impact of reductions in the farmer
participation rates given above (para. 47). Based on a worst-case scenario
of only one fully participating farmer, two participating farmers, and five
marginally participating farmers per farmer group, representing a total
impact on only about 12% of the farmers in the target population,/1 the
project would still yield an economic rate of return of 13%. To account for
the possibility that the multi-sectoral approach, utilizing subject matter
specialists to train and brief general field extension workers, would
encounter serious operational difficulties, a calculation was made based on
projected benefits from food crops extension alone. The resultant rate of
return would still be very high (29%), due to the comparatively rapid
response of yields of annual food crops to improvements in technique.
Finally, a rate of return of 15% would be achieved even if project benefits
were limited to improvements in rice yields alone, due to the importance of
this single crop in Indonesian smallholder agriculture. In each case
substantial potential economic benefits would be lost, but there appears to
be little risk that the project would not justify itself in economic terms.
50.       Distribution of Benefits.  In each farmer group, one farmer  is
designated by the field worker as a "contact farmer," and approximately 10
farmers are designated "progressive farmers". As the contact farmer is
expected to be the field worker's prime supporter in the village community,
to ease his entry and work with him to engender attendance at meetings and
general farmer participation,/2 the field worker quite naturally often
selects a prominent member of the local community (the village headman, or a
member of an aristocratic or leading family) as the contact farmer. Some of
the progressive farmers are also of this class, and the upper classes of
village society would thus tend to constitute a sizeable proportion of the
categories of fully and partially participating farmers postulated in the
economic analysis above. On the other hand, observation of a large number
of group meetings throughout the NFCEP provinces has also confirmed the
enthusiastic participation of numerous poorer landowners as progressive
farmers, and particularly outside Java, as contact farmers. They also would
/1 This scenario is equivalent to reducing expected gross benefits by 60%.
/2 Including the organization of the farmers to build the small group
meeting shelters with their own labor and materials on their own land.



- 21 -
form the vast bulk of the marginally participating farmers. This, and the
members of the village elite in Java often live on incomes below the estimated
absolute poverty level,/1 yields an estimate that 65% of the benefits of the
project would accrue to farmers in the poverty group. The remainder would
accrue to larger farmers, a majority of whom would still earn less than the
national average per capita income ($360).
Environmental Effects
51.       The only foreseeable significant environmental impact of the project
would be a positive one: the introduction of extension recommendations in the
field of soil conservation and reforestation in districts where erosion due to
agricultural practices is a major problem.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Indonesia and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for under Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
53.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMIMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 28, 1980
Wiashington, D.C.
/1 Equivalent to $120 per capita per annum in 1979 prices.



- 22 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
Xs0NR3  - SOCIAL ILDICAIR  DATA S5L
D2UZA                      uRmcz 506l0S (ADJUSTUD AIPGU
LUMD ARA (0SAND 510S. KM.)                                                  -  MT R1CIT ESTfATEZ)
TOTAL           2027.L                                                  SAM          SAKI     11 MiGM
AOEICOLTIRAL     292.9                                MM  RUICNT    GCOIIIXC    130032           LICOS
1960  /b    1970 a/ ETIATE Lk        UCXON       GROUP .1    GROP /j
Gr PEr CAPIUT  M0                     60.0       140.0     360.0            528.9      209.6       467.5
510? C016032T1   PUr CAPrTA
(WLOGRW  OF COAL gQJVALM)          129.0       L20.0     216.0           371.1       83.9       262.1
POPSATIOH        4  s SS
POPULATION, K-TR   (.LI0RS)         94.7       117.6     135.9
MU"  POPnoTIOS c s sor TSOTL) 14.6              17.1      18.4            27.4        16.2        24.6
POIMA!XOII P20JTICOU6
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 0N=10I0RU)                     207.0
STATIOAY  POPULATOS (XIONS)                            357.0
SA  STATIONUST POPLATON IS RsCD                       2145
PO1LATI  DENSITY
PU SQ. IN.                        47.0        56.0      66.0           154.6       49.4        45.3
FR  SQ. DI. ACUCMUML LUD    337.0            419.0    456.0            564.7      252.0       149.0
POPLAION ACI STROCTUR  (PtUCUT)
0-14 n15.                         40.S        4.0       41.0            41.3       43.1        45.2
15-44 1i5.                         56.1        33.5      56.0            54.9       53.2        51.9
65 ns. AND 8o0n                     3.1         2.5       3.0             3.3        3.0         2.8
POpULATION CY01II UITZ (PGUT:r)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.2       2.0             2.4        2.4         2.7
3Am..                                          3.7       3.3             4.3        4.6         4.3
CRIUD  61311 RATE (YU DROUSAUD)     47.0        43.0      37.0            30.2       42.4        39.4
CUDDE DEATH RATE (PU TLOUSAUD)      23.0        16.0      16.0             6.3       15.9         11.7
GROSS IUPODUCTIOR lATt               2.8         3.2       2.4             2.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANING
A5QPTOIS. ANAL (THOUSANDS)          ..       11.1    2213.0
USECS (PUnCT o0 MALU7D    )W)    ..          -0.2       19.0            34.1       12.2        13.2
7O0D AND NUTRITION
INDax orp FOOD isonucion
PM CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.5       100.0     105.0           106.2       96.2        99.6
PtR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORlS (PFCENT or
HQIUITS)                        69.0        91.0      96.0           104.1       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (CRAMS Pn DAY)           43.0        43.0      43.8            57.4       52.1        54.3
o0 WIMCH ANAL AMD PULSE         15.0/S      14.0      16.6            16.9       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MOTALI-T RATE      31.0        22.0      19.0             4.8       18.5        11.4
LIFE  EX PtAC  Al 3ILT  (TIAS)    41.0          46.0      48.0            61.1       49.3        54.7
INFANT .11TALITT  ATZ  (PE
10051AmN)                             ..       126.0        ..            46.6      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER A1CUCT OF
POPULATION)
TOTL                               ..         3.0      12.0            21.9       26.3        34.4
CR51                                . .       10.0      35.0            46.2       58.5        57.9
RURAL                               ..         1.0       6.0            12.8       L5.8        :1. '
ACCESS TO 1PrTA DISPOSAL (PERCEST
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        12.0      15.0            2S.4       16.0        40.8
21JAN                               ..        50.0      60.0            65.0       65.1        71.3
RURL                                ..         4.0       5.0            14.7        3.5        27.7
POFULATION ?ER PH?SICIA          41000.0L&   26830.0   16430.0          3790.5    11396.4      5799.4
POPULATION ?P  SURSING PERSON         ..      8010.0    4670.0          1107.4     5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER OSP1.AL 3SD
MOTAL                           1370.0      1670.0    1560.0           613.3     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                               ..      1130.0        ..           203.6      197.3       272.7
RURAL                               *-      1890.0        ..          1110.3     2445.9      1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 1E            ..          ..      22..            23.9       24.a        27.5
HOUSING
AFERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
mUAL                               4.4         4.8         .             5.2        5.3         5.
'MAN                               4.9         5.3         .              ..        4.9         5.1
RURAL                              4.3          .,        ..              ..        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NIeEJL OF ?ESONS PER SOON
TOTAL                               ..         1.5        ..
3 RSAN                              ..        !. 6        ..              .          ..
RUPIAL                              ..         '.o        .                .         .
ACCESS EO E-ERCTRI   PERCEKT
IF DWELL:NGS;
<-A-L                               ......                                          o. 5       -S.
'-RAN                               ..          .         ..              ..       17.8        45.1
RURAL                                **                                                          9



-23-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
LnDomLA - SOCtAL  ODlICJAXS DATA SUT
3[FEMCZ GROUPS          ,5  ,
s- NOST &EC-T    alc
sAmE        5818     NEXT 81cmn
!T  RIC=        CC1OGAMC    LCOMZ           uicomE
1960 _/b    1970 /lb  STIT  /lb       TGON /C   GbOUP id    GROUP /a
2DUCATlION
An.SZD ENROLL.'W   RATIOS
PRMARY:      TOM                   67 a.        73.       82. o            97.9       63.3         82. 7
MALK                  79.0        90.0       86.0            96.7        79.1        87.3
1D11Z                55.0         70.0       77.0            97.4        48.4        75.3
SECC sDART2   ST1L                  6.0         15.0      10.0             42.2       16.7         Z.4 4
XALZ                  10.0        20.0       25.0            46.7        22.1        33.0
PImaZ                  3.0        11.0       15.0            40.9        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL EMLOL. (SOF SZMMART)  20.0             22.0      21.0             12.5        5.6          9.a
PUPIi-TZh- RATIO
PRIMART                            39.0        29.0       30.0             32.5       41.0         34.1
S9C01a0                            14.0         13.0     L1.3              25.8       21.7         23.4
ADLT LITZJACT 1ItA   (PUST)          39.0         57.0      62.0             84.1       31.2         54.0
CONSOMPTION
?ASSEN!CU CARS PM TSAND
POPULATIOJ                          1.0         2.0        3.2              6.1        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECZIVERS PE    T10U81
POPUio.fl-                          7.0           ..      37.0            84.4        27.2         76.9
TV ZCEIVRS PF S31J05YD
POPUTON                              ..         0.7        2.0            22.4         2.4         13.5
MKWSPAI  C0A3LZT GhZRAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION PUf
TWUSA1D POATION                        ..           ..      16.0             24.2        5.3         18.3
C 7M   ANNUAL ATZDA     P   C A    ..               ..       0.9              3.6         1.1         2.3
LABOR FORCE
L   LAACII FORCE (58W13S)    34027.0          42209.0   51000.0
FEMALE (P191011)                   27.9        31.0       30.5            36.7        24.8        29.2
ACIECDLMTV   (PEUSZNT)             74.8         66.3      60.1             54.6       69.4         62.7
NOUSTLY (P7CEX3)                    8.4         9.7       12.0             16.3       10.0         11.9
PARTIC:PATION 1AT! (P1901)
TOTAL                                36.7         35.3      34.6             40.7       36.9         37.1
AL1                                  54.2         49.5      48.6             49.9       52.4         48.8
-c*LZ                                20.0         21.6      20.8             31.0       18.0         20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENPDENCT RATIO              1.2          1.3       I1.              1.1        1.2          1.4
INC0ME DISTRI3BUION
PERCE.YT OF 'FIVAIT S NCM
RICSIVED BY
IGUSrr 5 PFRCUT oF S10sa5S0          ..        33.7/h       ..             14.9         ..         15.2
HIGEZST .0 P7UCET 0 HOUSEHOLDS    ..           52.0/i      ..             46.8         ..        48.2
LOWEST ZO P1ECENT 0F  OUSE0DS        ..          6.37w      ..              6.2         ..          6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT 01 EOUSOLDS        ..         17.37S      ..             16.8         ..         16.3
POVERTA TMFT GROUPS
ESTLMATED A3SOLUT  P0VOST INCOMN
LEVEL (USS PM CAPITA)
711AN                                ..           ..     221.0            193.1       99.2       241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..     130.0           128.7        78.9       136.6
EST-lATED RELATIVE POTcI I1NCMZ
LEVEL (USS PEL CAP=A)
URBAN                                *'           *'     145.0           196.8        91.9       179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..      98.0             96.8        54.3       103.7
ES=TATED POPLTION 3EL0W A6SOLOT
POVERTY 'NCOCa LVEL (PERC2!T)
'R3AN                                ..           ..      59.0            22.0        ".1
RURAL                                ..          ..       65.0            52.5        53.9        37.5
.    ot available
'4ut aol)licable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of cou=tries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  for 1970, betveen 1969 and 1971;
and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1980. Poverty levels are estimated 1980 levels at 1980 prices.
/c    East Asia & Pacific; /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976); /e Lover Middle Income C$281-550 per capita.
1976); /f 1961-63; /a 1962; /h Income recipients.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita and population is for 1978.
December 31, 19 9



- 24-                                                                     ANn  i
Page 3 of 5 pages
0DEYT?CONP OF SOCIAL ~I2CATCPi
Not..:  Although the data so  doac  gr ou ... gnerLly JudAgd th. nst a.thoritati-e -An  -elbs  'It should aso be ooted thft they my tot belOse
tio.ally -coa l.rl  bec-    of the lack of st.ndrdlod defioltioe sd  -eopte used by differet vntie. 1- vletiog the date. Th. dat. r,tntee.
useful to des-ibe orders of sagoitd., Ltdicat  trend, end chreteri,e .rt&i. Major differe-e  b.t-ee  co-trie..
Th. p4.jronv            amir for esb i.di-at-  -r  Ppo1nAtioa-seigbt.d geomerio aens, exclding the entree  -I... of the indicatr and the acet populated
Moutryoet vo7I6 to 1.0  of data, grcp aveage  of all indic-tors for Captal S-rplus Oil Eporters end of todicator.  f Acoe.. to Wter end  oE-t.
Disposl,  ouiog, Ion  "i Srlbultio  nod Port  foe o'tber =o ,ty gcpeseoulto-esighte  ge-t,o  -nn  nithout ecluioo of the ectren  -e,l.. sad
the nst poulate  vosory.  1000 te covrege  f oo'ntrie  sg te indcator  depeds onaoeliOiliti oft dtao en  is nt unIorm   ouI.-.    coatl-   execise
.inrltiog .versse  of one  ndic-tor to soother.  The. .ergea.    ns],- -ul-npenstin    f-"xetdvlue  ehnO  -osprl   the .b    ofon
indi-tt- at a ties a-n  the  -uts? sod rferenc  gfroup..
) ~  (thosoed sq.k..)                                                               AcWes  t   bere. depe I       pecet of`Msitin  - o al  re.nde-s-
~I&lure   -  hst  ecen  esie.t  ofege-xolora  see  used tmrseWily            p-tcencege  of their repeetive poPulatixs. beret. dtspnx.1 my tnlude
or prmeentl  fo  crpe,peue,erevn  kitoibe  gsen  xc 'to                           the odIection   W disposal,  ith or .ithosat t-tait, of  ea  norrts
lie fllxe.                                                                             sbynseeae   is cts-born   Y.t-n  or the  -s  of pit prfi.ie  sad  -,ells
2q~ ~~ITA        -GE per  .pta e tlete  at curret Mrkt P50C                          onainpr~iin-Poplatine dirided by n-Dde  of practicing physicien
cacLtdby F     enasi ethod se Sor-U D5.6 Atlas (1976-787bsisi);                       flT-b7-I cho  at university I.-I.
1960  1970, sOd 1978 date..                                                            PepaiaOx   Mrn DAssimpase  - Poplation diridad by  .. ber of p-stioto  eel.
PU  CAIZA    Anxae.i o--stics of o,eiai  -eay                     -ds f.*L. geashst.       ..ree  pratical enes,ad asietentnues
arWT E     qui~ Lt-fl 7 troIia: ca1t=ral gs  endibyero-, eeces, sd gee-                 p .. lAtica  Mr R.   tlBd- oa    eba,.0rrl-  ouain(to tal  urben
theemal electricity) in kilogse  of coal equle-2et per caita; 1960)                      s           "drurl) divddb  hi   epcieeobe   fhsia   esaalsi
1970, sad 1976 dat..                                                                     polio end private genral and spcialixed htpital and rhbaiiit.tion  -eni-re
Nospital.s see  satlibo~t. peeatly  tsffed by at least one physicien
E2;Nj!F%ffl    VrTAL STATISTICS                                     I.~~~~~8tablis-ets p""si dieg principally  -utodia  tar  ar  tot inclded.  ur.al
Thl PmItl... hod-fear ~4p-) - A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, and                        hospitls,          ,include health a-d -adival oetir  cot peemnntly staffed
by 5 phys  ici   (but by a medca   eisient, case  edoife, etc.)  hicb offer
iteba Poulaton (er_et oftotal) - tRti. of urban to tots3 pepaltien;                 in-patient ...cdatita  she proide a lidited reng. of endi.al facilitie..
diffesen  definiions ofurban aeas  effet c~sirtiiity   f dana                                - Total aeber of sdnlei... to or dischares. fro
s-g  oo,stri.9, 1960, 1970, sod 1975 data                                              h6.pfI[   Il  n .r of bed..
Powlti-  . __20M- Cur-eat popuation p"e-oetios  -r  based o              ~
19 to         ato   y  g   ndsaen  bir neeclity and fertility                   AvrgGiso   eueidprssprboehd-tta.ne.edcr]-
rates. projectionipactere for ntllty, r.tss csW-in   of thes                         A hshld  M         Meeso      ru   fidiial   h   hr   i'c  quartes..n
i-seelo     l so Ig lfe sopecteey  ~t birth io en  nith eonentheir enda enal.  A hoeder or iodger                                  or     anW t he icluded in the
pee oeita inco   level, sod fesa.le if. expecteny etbilinieg at                      h-usehld for statistical purposes.
77.5 years   The pareet.rt for fertility rt. also be.  three level                Avraesabe   f pesn               on- oa,ubnAsdrrl- terge ounbr
-senig deline In fertilitysordin  to inc    leve  Ae past                            o~peen   e   oni             re    n   ua   cuied o eti... l d-ellingo,
fenily oLsslg perfoemso. bob cantry is then assigd .-a of these                      repectively.  Desiiag. eoId.d non-pecanet  it-ture  sad  -occpied par-.
sine .c*imtion  of ec-rtlity sad frtility t-d. for projection                     Alcl-, to  _Zstricij  Spr-en  If den    -e    otl            1s odrrl-Co
i-             t-   aastationery p-opatio  there Is so pooch                         total, urbsa  sd rura  deekiogs r-spetiosly.
et:it  Vb. birt  rate is equal to'the dath rat, end alec the Sg.
strutur   vis    ntant, This is anbievd only efte  ferili ty rates              EE   9!i
deciiae to the repia et level of omit net reprodtito rate, e.                               bo ziollent Paio
each gnertio  of ann  e _ae  itself neetly.  The sttine y pp-                        Ni.hcJ4II                   eed female - Gross total, sale e   femle enrol-
latin 'ice on  eti.ted cc the bda  of the projected ohrceitc                            ato   l  gsa  h   rnr   ee  0pretgsOf reepetion Prisnr
of toe ppulation in tbe year 20D0, and the rate of decine. of fOrtulity                sOhool-Wg  pop-ultions; Otr-Ilp includes childre  aped 6-li year  bt
rate to rnplaenet lei.                                                                 adjusted for differeet lengths of prin.y ed_otito; or-  -cotries  ith
Pear  tatoey  cat_`F     io  -.rehed - The year  hs  stationer  population              uivra  edactixo ear1-het es  nursd iO perceot  tto- som  pupils
eieha  been. rechdi                                                                 are 1e  -r shoe  the offitlal school ape.
70p96459j)9nsily                                         leexedery sohool - total, sale sad ~~f=e. - C-poted.nl.e         -eouavy
Pk'7h.Ad.year population per squar   i-ter (100 hectare) of                      euainrquie   atlatfu   er   f approved prisary it-t-uti-;
'7 i   rs                                                                               pru-id.. genra  otetiocul, or technr trs]eingia         rcib   fir puPils
Per so. . soitrl ed - Computed as shov  for egrioultu-l land                             usually of 12 to 17 peas of ape; -rr.epondeoo  ccr_o  r  ooealy
only.                                                            ecolu~~~~~~~~~-ded.
poslt nAte St trucisee(.Peree) - Children (0-iA  years), -okieg-egs                Vooational enolet'ecn   f ;c-dorY) - Vocational ioetitoti...i-ciude
years, nedr  rted 5year  end Over) as peecetege  of mid-yea                          t"Mhicalin sti,          orothr   ropn  oich operate lodepedetlyora
popolattoc; 1I0,1970, end 1977 data.                                                     depar_tent  of secondry inetitutloo.
Poenlation Oroth Pat  'perc...t) - total   A ..on. xr00th rates of total nid-            Punil-teecke- ratio    rieno   ao      %Icndr  - Thtal students c-11id to
year poplAtion.o..      5-S   97-0   od17-7                                              pri-imr   n eory     y  evl  dividd by ca-bero of teacters in th, cr--
Poosiaton  rcet  oae,,gerent)- uban  "' P00. grortso   ra                         poding level..
popultioMN frI950-0, 1970-70,. so  1970-75.                                            Adut literary  neprct- ilterse  duits  sOleto rednd c-it.) a
Crde lirt  Pte  ea  t1nsn)     nna  l     birth. per thoused of aid-                       a _ pretae of tot.1]  duat p.pulatioc aped 15yerndoc.
Ird   echdtt       t hroxead) - Annual dAfths per thousand of  id-year           La    mlOf
at            and~~~~I 197daa                                            paeee  Care (prthued ep                o      Passeger car  c-pr iec  "cccnr
:Rate -Ace,Irege nuber of.daghters. ane    ll bear                     eating less thea ei,Ot prson t no- des                   h.-.e.ce .bare  sd elitary
i.hercr.    .c       tiveu  priod if ehe eari-ne  psesent ape-                        siI.
specific f.rtility rat.; usuall  fivey-ea   asrp    ning In 1960,                    p5db  peocitv-  (per thuad poultion) - ALl types  1  of  Iecerer  for r-dt
1970, and 19T5.                                                                        bracat  to gnrl;uloprtos    of population; eoc lodes,oite
s-a fyPl %ix     dcetft Aeea )to-a.Pds) _An-l  .anhr of                            rciesin coutries end to year   .e r-giotrtion of  -sic s-to cooh
arceptoe of brth-conrol deices uder  anpie  of national fsaiy                 effet; data for re...ct year  say oct be conparle sitv   ac-t   utrs
pienniap props.                                                                        bholshed licening.
panly lenif-dns ereto   are A nme) -Pretgof saried                                     TV PeveivrI (peLr.thosse-       platioc)-11  - -t rcirer  for Ir...d_st t,  eet
csnof  bbl-ero   p   1-kyss   h   s    rith--ntrol device...i   e  to r  pultion; eldes unlicensd TV r-vi--r i,v   --cti-
to al eeri.d  -oc  In san  ap  group.                                                  end itea y-   h.. registration of TV -ets  aieffect.
FOC   l  UTRrrTCIi                                                                         ofdal   eea  itrs   eeae                    W-efcd aapeiodical publicntios
Indexof roS fr~t tio  perc.Pit. (12697-100li) . Inde  of per capit               deoted prisarly to recrdig general n-e.   t                             becniee   ch   'daily
snosi  soaotin o  aS].food  -o itiss   Prdcio        ldes seed and              if it appears  t least fou  times n eck.
fee       is cn calendar pear basis.  C..dities  neve   si..7 god                   Cin. P-..aI Atteodence prdCapita or dear-  BO,ted    the cuor  fciit
(e.g. cprg ae instead of suar  eich ar  edible and  -onOLe nutrients                  soddrn   h   er  nldo    dicost   rc-occms d soble
(e.g. coffee end te  are . elded).  Aggregte  rduto  of eah couty                        it
ix laned on nationa   vcp   rdxe   rc   ngt'
Per   y spitasaly o   uoie    oet  frtlrnns - Competed fron                      IA, lP fORC
Per d.y.  A-aIlble supplies  -oprise do-esti  prodwntion, iMprts less                forEs edFunempoyhd but noCludlag houscei-e, studect.  etc, Dlfi.itti-,
exot,sd chang.  in  t-ko.  set supplies  _IcloS  enie.] feed,..seds.            In  -ui-c  -ttries ar  cot comarble.
quetlittcn used in food procesin, and lose  i dl.tributica. Reqire-                F.I    P .t  - Fe-I.lb-16c  fo-e  aspretp               f total 1bxhr force,
neotI Iev  etisated by FAI bsed 00 phsilogical oeeda for oemal                     dg45            r j!ost) - labor forc  10 famIn, forestry, hunting50
ectivity sad halth considering  -ir-e.ena  temperature, body  ights,                  ilaaxpercen.tgp  of total lnbcr force,
ape nod scdintribotiono of popua.tin, nod .1oeing ii pereot for-Pp,f,lE5    lbor forc  to mining, cotructico.' -nustoi sd
ast t houehld 1-tel                                                          elcrct,otr -d gaepercetage of total labor Iorce.
eroOisupyof prteIn (ursa  pr da') - Prttein .cten  of Pe                   Patcptic   at  (percent) - total. Mal.. nd 'ane -  rticipatiocor
..pit. cet suVpl  of fecd Per day. Pet supplyo   odi   eie  an                       a tict  rae     Wrtcnsd -s total, nae o   eal  ao                Iot  as per-
above,  oq.ireet. for elI  -xuttrie  establihe  by  -S  peid. for a                  -etage  of total, sale sad fc.le. populatIo ofnlatrsptie
alden alloesno  of h0 grsa  of total protein per day end 20 gra- of                  1960. 1970, nod 1975 data.  These ar  !li's perlo~ pation ratesrelct
nioie. sd pulse protein, of shioh 10 gm   hould he anSe1 protein                        ... ag-e  structure of the popuatico.  nd long tIne tet.d.  A fee e-titen
These.standards ar  lope  then those of 75 joan- of tetal protei. end                are fca nationl  cros
27 ges   of -,-sL proteio s- so  e-ge for the ened, Propose d by TAO               E"11i  -  Patio of popula.tios  uer It sa  t5 nod .... to
toteTird Wcrld Food Survey                                                        babgggroup  of 1-5-64 year..
Per celi  rotein splfrom soeled pulse . Protein supply of food
derived from   oiarsdnd pules itDraS nc3day
Child 'noes I-h)Wrtj     t  Paeprthuad             -     Idue deaths per.thoused       PI-onIr    om  (both it .0  en d kind) - Peceerd by richcet
1apgrou  1-_- years, to ohildoc-  10 this ape grop; for nest devel                 5 pecet  rio.s  20 yeroett, poorest20Percet, so  P-ret 40 Per-ee
piog coutries date derived fri. life tables.f  usbc.x
life  Ioetsc t Pirth  yer)                     -bcae  uhr of year  of life             teino    bslt   oety bIucoec lev           l   PI, e  -apit.) - urban nod rura
renaningat brth;19h.  10,ad1977. data.                                           Absooe  oetybn   lvlisttt itoca  i-c  hein ublOt a slotel
Iofonri Mortalt  sate                                                                     -rtip,r (per thouead) -   nA-I deaths of infants unerxuriinal  adequate diet Plu e.s....toi1 to-food r"quren- t  tO 0-.
yaofaepeth.ousad live births,                                                 afcr. i
Ac-e-  to dade WUter (p--et of wcol.tin                     H oa,ubn  and rura  -      itinated Relative-     vrt   0c  leve  'iPS  per -ota)  -uban an .rra
-uber of rooplettlurn,ndralebreonbeacstooaleaiv  povrt  Icoe lceth                                                               O-third of orpepr capt..t
saf  satc supl  inclua   toated suface s_tesc   nraedbs                                 eona   atn    the coutry. Urbno le_lis dert-d fe-o  the  -ra  Iroet
uo-ctsmloated none  -uh a  that fro  protected bereholes,  prnseith adjustast for higher 00t of licing to ur-    rC-
sx  snitsv7 vIls-) asPercetage  of tonic rePective PoPulatosI    stimte   oplc o  Dlo  bolt  Pvrt   ooeLee  loret                                              rto aou
no b-it. arc  a pub    foteusl  or  tandptst locte  to   eotarrl-Pret of                                  tplat  ioeoca  sorrl1oo  r    sslte poor
neoof tha   os.    "Inrra  area  reasonble ft"..s nold iply
th.t the hronlf  o  ndrs of toe hsuxhold do to  hove to sped a                                                                 cE-.c sod Social Date  tottr
d-iproPorilota- part of the d.Y 10 fetohiog the fanilys cte . t- ed                                                     io-st  osay.o sd  reton taron
Auut 1979



-  25 -                            ANMEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTR (%. constant prices)
USS Mln    %          1960-65           1965-70           1971-78
GNP at Market Prices            47,461  100.0          1-9                4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Investment    10,022   21.1             3.3               11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving            9,233   19.5          5.8                5.1              12.0
Currant Account Balance         -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           10,278   21.7          1.5                7.8               8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,144   19.3          0.2               10.9              17.9
OUJTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
USS Mln    %          Min                   u USS $
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -          3.0      5.3
total/Average                37.339  100.0       56.4   100.0           662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINA2TCE
CENTRAL GOVERNENT
(Rp Billion)                              2 of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                          1977    1978
Current Receipts                  3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure               2.149      2.744                         11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                   1,386      1,522                          7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures              2,157      2.556                         11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)           738        987                          3.9      4.5
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    695      987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to public Sector             129      153      209     990   1,051       883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector            524     932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Ouasi Money as % of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 - 100)         106      139      196     234      280      311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector           65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
'Tote:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 - USSI up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 - USS1, thereafter.
,'b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not apolicable
East Asia & acific roerams
Januar" 30, 1990



- 26 -
AXNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAY!(ENTS                                                                        XERCRLWISE EXPORTS
1976       1977        1978              (Average 1976-78)
US$ Ml a
-.  Exports:                                     6,573       7,952       7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)                    3,710       4,445      4,010              Oil and LNG (net)               4,055       54.1
(b)  Nonoil                               2,863       3,507      3,979              Timber                             986      13.1
2.  Inports (incl. net NFS)                     -6,657    -7,777    -84129                 Rubber                             653       8. 7
(a)  Imports                             -6,167      -7,241     -7,543              Coffee                             488       6. 5
(b)  NTFS (net)                            -490        -336         586             Palm Oil                           190       2.5
Resource balance                               -84         175       -140             Tin                                 253       3.4
Factor services                               -718       -865      -1,015             Manufactures                        261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a               -314        -436        -499             All others                         619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                           -404        -429       -516
.  Balance on current account                     -802        -690     -L,155                    Total                      7 505     100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment                       287        285         271
7.  Capital grants                                  100        100         100
8.  Public M & LT loan La
(a)  Disbursement                         2,334       1,955      1,627              RATE OF BCHANGE
(b)  Amortization                          -457        -825        -969
(c)  Net disbursements                    1,897       1,130         558               August 1971 throunh November 14.  1978
9.  Other capital (net)                           -481        -174         834
1O.  Change in reserves                                                                         TUS$1.00  -  Rp 415
(- increase)                             -1,001        -651       -708                  Rp 1,000 -  US$2.41
11.  Net official reserves                        1,557       2,208       2,916
Sinc-e November 15. 1978
Reser,es tn -nonths of imports + NPS                 2.8         3.4        5 3
Public debt service as 2 of exports                 11.7       15.9        18.4                  USS1.00  -  Rp 625
Rp 1,000 -  US$1.60
EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31. 1978
Disbursed Undisbursed Total
-USS million --
Total External Public Debt                        12,983      5,794      18,777
!BPR,D:'A LENDING (December 31. 1979) (USS million)
IBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                            760.09    515.16
Cndisbursed                                     1,815.91      254.64
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                   2,575.00      769.80
/a  Based on IBRD external debt data.                                                                       East Asia and Pacific Programs
February 15, 1980



-27 -                      ANNEX II
Page 1 of 24 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of December 31, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One Loan and twenty-two Credits fully disbursed            50.00  300.60         -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.42
289     1972   Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.50        0.08
300     1972   Populat-ion                                         13.20        2.15
318     1972   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                    8.50        0.46
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                              3.60        0.06
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                             46.00        3.05
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        5.61
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.00        0.54
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.71
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.40
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        9.27
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        1.47
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       19.29
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       26.73
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       29.76
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00       48.73
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00       10.00
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       12.00
1005     1974   Railway                                    48.00                 0.46
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                  25.00                 1.78
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 5.11
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.00                 0.08
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                41.85
1127     1975   Fourth Power                               41.00                 2.29
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                    68.00                 0.92
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                16.19
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 7.45
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                89.56



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                29.50
1250    1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                38.65
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.00                 8.77
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                44.75
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                11.96
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                18.68
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                    19.64
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                17.09
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                21.18
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.00                 6.49
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00                64.51
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00                11.88
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00                16.64
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00                56.46
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00                27.32
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                    15.43
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50                21.41
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00                12.67
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders 1         65.00                55.95
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00               106.31
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                   10.00                 4.78
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00               135.24
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00                27.39
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                    64.86
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00                74.59
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00                54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00                50.00
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00                41.78
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00               130.00
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00               175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply /a                     36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                        99.00               99.00
/a Not yet effective.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                        2.575.00  769.80   2,058.31
of which has been repaid                      32.34    0.41
Total now outstanding                        2,542.66  769.39
Amount sold                                      28.24    0.00
of which has been repaid                       9.99
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a            2,524.41  769.39
Total undisbursed                            1,815.91  254.64   2,058.31
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4 of 24 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -       11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. M4onsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -        0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -       0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1        1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.3         -       0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.4       0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -        0.9
Total                                               51.7      10.5       62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                  33.4      2.1       35.5
Total held by IFC                                    18.3       8.4      26.7
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)         _           -          -



- 31 -                          ANNEX II
Page 5 of 24 pages
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (Cr. 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                      6-7
1579, 1645 and 1691)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                  8-10
405, 480,
Ln. 1318, 1499, 1604, 1707                10-11
and 1751)
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                           11-12
Rural Development (Cr. 946)                                                 12
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                    12
Education (Cr. 387, 869, Ln. 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                      13-14
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708)                            15-16
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   16
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                17
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1363, 1437 and 1703)                     17
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                       18
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                           18
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                        19
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451, 898 and Ln. 1197)                             19-20
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          20
Highways (Ln. 1236 and 1696)                                               20-21
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     21
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            22
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             22
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653)                                   23
Water Supply (Ln. 1049 and 1709 /2)                                           24
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 32 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation rxtension: TUSS30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the first
construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the project
schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977 and
contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over
the appraisal estimate and the project is currently expected to be completed
by December 1982, about three years behind the original completion date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  USS65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but con-
struction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable major changes
in the design of the Sampean Baru dam and unit price increases in other
components. These will be verified as bids are received for the maJor
contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  US$33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  USSS63 Mfillion Loan of June 6, 1q77;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: Mfarch 31, 1Q83.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 33 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 24 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16. 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29. 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  US$51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16. 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory.



-34                            ANNEX II
Page 8 of 24 pages
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24. 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Eourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30. 1981.
The planting program was completed in 1976 at 6,924 ha of rubber
and 5,052 ha of oil palm. By 1981 all areas should be mature and construction
completed at the Bekri Mill, Panjang bulk installation and Way Berulu crumb
rubber factory. Rubber production for 1978 was 10,986 tons (3% above target)
and oil palm was 29,159 tons (35% below target). The drought of 1976/77 and
a severe caterpillar attack in 1977 contributed to this drop. Production
targets for 1979 for both crops are expected to be achieved.
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
JanuarY 31. 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30. 1980.
The Bina Mulya Ternak corporation (BMT) is now managed by Tndonesian
staff with satisfactory capability. Development of ranch infrastructure and
fencing has practically been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi ranches
remain understocked. It is expected that accelerated purchases of domestic
stock in 1979 will enable BMT to utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. A three-year pasture and grazing research program with
Australian bilateral assistance has started. Sufficient funds were available
to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1979 and up to Project
completion about mid-1980.



- 35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 9 of 24 pages
Credit No. 358  North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  TJS$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date:  August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: USS7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice tihrough a Project Management IJnit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons. The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry. The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.
Credit No. 405  Sugar Industry Pehabilitation:  IJS$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1480
The two rehabilitated factories and the one newly constructed are
operating satisfactorily, except for problems with instru-mentation and
shortage of spares, which are being tackled. Cane areas have been expanded,
but field development to increase yield and sugar content, particularly on
factory rented cane land, has not received sufficient attention. Although
cane farmers' yields come close to appraisal forecasts, further improvements
are possible. Largely due to uneven supply and poor quality of cane, finan-
cial results of PTP XV and PTP XXI/XXII are poor, though the latter is
improving. The solution is to improve cane productivity and quality and total
factory cane supply and to implement a cost reduction program, including
amalgamation of uneconomic units.  The Government is encouraging a switch to
farmers' cane on a nuch greater scale than foreseen at appraisal, with
consequent dislocation of cane supply. Sugar is a favorable smallholder crop
in rainfed and less well irrigated land, especially in East Java, but inten-
sive research on rainfed cane varieties, intercropping and upland soil



- 36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 10 of 24 pages
fertility is needed to encourage farmer interest and maintain cane supply.
The Pasuruan Sugar Experiment Station has been slow to carry out this
research.
Credit No. 480 Fisheries Credit: USS6.5 M1illion Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The overall project is about 18 months behind schedule.
Construction of shore facilities at Arbon is completed and operating
satisfactorily. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is
on site ready for installation. W4hile the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action taken by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  TTSS30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind
appraisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effec-
tiveness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfully growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate
fertilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are sub-
stantially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence
of the relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous
settlers have already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled
area at Way Abung, there has been little improvement in incomes because
fertilizers are not available on site and delayed road construction limits
marketing of cash crops. Experience to date highlights the need for
improving project management and ensuring that agricultural support services
and input supply systems are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  US$65 Mtillion Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 2, 1978;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.



37                         ANNEX II
Page 11 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented. The preparation of work programs and budgets
for 1980 should be ready on time, in order to avoid delays in budgeting and
releasing of Government funds.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  US$99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979: Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project became effective in November 1979.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  US$157 Million Loan and Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Some project sites previously identified have been found only par-
tially suitable, and are now being resurveyed. However, final design for
all the project sites are expected to be available by mid-1980 and contracts
let before the end of the year.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19. 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and
conditions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers,
the project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation esti-
mates. At the present projected pace of implementation all components,
except fellowships, should be completed by the Closing Date.



- 38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 12 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: US$12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
This project became effective in December 1979.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785  Small Enterprise Development:  US$40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule, as is sublending
to small enterprises.
Credit No. 827  Rural Credit:  US$30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
a year behind schedule.



- 39 -                ~~~~ANNEX II
Page 13 of 24 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29. 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nationwide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the project
less effective than it could be. The training program, although on schedule
and making good progress, is out of phase with book production, which is
almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement. Textbooks
and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization and illus-
trations, and their content is limited by the national curricula. In response
to Association proposals, the Government has started a major review of the
project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook programs
and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: US$49 Million Credit of December 29. 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new
system (polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by estab-
lishing a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java
and Sumatra, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four Accountancy Development Centers in existing universities. The project
implementation unit has been established and staffed, and implementation of
the technician components (84% of project cost) is proceeding on schedule:
contracts for architectural and technical assistance services have been
signed; sites have been acquired; and sketch plans have been completed.
Implementation of the accountancy components (16% of project cost) of the
project is six months behind schedule primarily due to inadequate coordination
and control among the several agencies involved in implementation.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  US$37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17. 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered a ten-month delay due to late signing of the-
Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical



AN1NEX II
- 40 -                        Page 14 of 24 pages
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further
delays have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts
for the Manpower and LAN components.  Overall, the project is about 1-1/2
years behind schedule. About 80% of civil works, 50% of furniture, and
100% of technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the
technical assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT
Agreements. Overall, the Miinistry of Education and LAN components are going
well, but the Ministry of Manpower has had difficulty in managing its
diverse program of establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation
may require postponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  USS19 Mlillion Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training. -The implementation of the project closely follows the
appraisal schedule, with ninor delays. The 40 key educators have returned
from a five-month overseas fellowship program and the training of a further
110 educators has been completed. The team has now started training of 7,ono
teachers, the development of learning materials and curricula revisions.
Phase I of a three-phase civil works program is 70% completed and Phase II
will begin shortly. Minor problems with book and furniture procurement, site
acquisition, and disbursements for civil works are being resolved.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  ITSS15 Million Loan of
September 14. 1977; Effective Date: Novenber 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces. Overall progress in
project implementation is good. All positions in the project unit are filled
and key staff of the provincial centers have been appointed. Total delays in
civil works and equipment procurement is now about 10 months. Staff
training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  TTSS42 Million Loan of Mav 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Covernment's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower through construction, provision of furniture and eauipment for
agricultural development schools and in-service training centers, and



- 41 -                      ANNEX II
Page 15 of 24 pages
technical assistance for improvement of curricula, educational planning, and
evaluation. Implementation is generally on schedule, and no major problems
have been encountered to date.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  West Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
thereafter progressed smoothly. Both 100 MW generating units have been
synchronized with the grid and are now operating satisfactorily. Consultants
are expected to issue final acceptance of the plant shortly to enable dis-
bursements to be completed before the closing date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  US$41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
.June 30, 1980
The third 100 MW unit at Muara Karang was commissioned in August
1979 meeting the appraisal target. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted by mid 1980 as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate. By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete. However, construction work lags behind schedule. While
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule. This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 100 MW steam
generating units at Muara Karang has been retarded, inter-alia, due to a
misalignment in the center line and consequent delays by the consultant in
finding appropirate solutions. Currently, a delay of about four months is
estimated in the commissioning date for Unit 4 and about 2 months for Unit
5.



- 42 -                        ANNEX II
Page 16 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  US$109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30. 1978: Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly competitive costs. A reduction in foreign costs of
about US$30 million is expected. Delays in award of contracts for civil
works caused by introduction of new procedures for contract awards by Gov-
ernment have resulted in a four-month delay in the tight construction
program. It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating set corres-
pondingly.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  US$175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979: Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is on schedule so far. Bids for turbine
generator and auxiliary equipment were evaluated and a letter of intent for
the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled. Bids for steam gener-
ator and auxiliary equipment are under evaluation.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975: Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976: Effective Date: August 15, 1976: Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in-
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.



- 43                         ANNEX II
Page 17 of 24 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: Novemb_r 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31. 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
amploymertt estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976), BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached an understanding with BAPINDO and
the Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy
BAPINDO's weaknesses and achieve further improvements. BAPINDO has effec-
tively implemented the Program and achieved satisfactory progress.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  US$50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.



- 44 -                       ANNEX II
Page 18 of 24 pages
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal 'Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10 Million Loan of M1ay 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
has improved markedly. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily,
except for delays in the completion of the three buildings still under
construction. The delays are attributable to contractual problems
associated with increases in the prices of building materials and oil.
Contractors consider the recent Government increases on contract costs to be
unacceptable because the revised costs are insufficient to offset losses on
existing contracts. The buildings, which were scheduled to be completed in
September 1979, will now be completed in April 1980.  The Government's
proposals for utilization of savings under the project have already been
agreed upon by both the Association and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities and implementation of the activities is expected to
start shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24-5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date:  August 4, 1977;  Closing Date:  April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. Despite the slowdown in construction associated with
increases in the prices of building materials and gasoline, project buildings
are expected to be completed on schedule.  Population education and training
components are also making steady progress. Procurement of furniture and
equipment is underway. However, the contraceptive raw materials study and



- 45 -                        ANNEX II
Page 19 of 24 pages
the community incentive scheme are behind schedule. The combined effect of
delays in construction and in starting the two research studies has been a
slackening of disbursements. By June 30, 1979, the total cumulative dis-
bursement was $1,761,000 compared with the appraisal estimate of $9,824,000.
The rate of disbursement is, however, likely to accelerate as buildings
currently under construction are completed and withdrawal applications made.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development: US$13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977: Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project
start. Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February
1979. The Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and
the Center for Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While
monitoring and evaluation units for each component have been operational for
six months the central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project
Secretariat is just starting to be staffed. A mission is currently in the
field preparing the Mid-Term Evaluation Report. The Executive Directors will
soon be informed of the results.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2. 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: US$10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979: Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31. 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.



- 46 -                         ANNEX II
Page 20 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra and
a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives, has
accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
-              TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of July 10.
1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due
to some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be
used for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been increased
because of delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear
customs on inter-island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved.
These matters were taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13. 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of



- 47 -                     ANNEX II
Page 21 of 24 pages
1,200 km are under way and a last retendered contract of 45 km is about to
start. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for contracts
started in 1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to rupiah construction
contracts had to be and still are being made. While remedial measures taken
in 1978/79 (and others planned) have improved the rate of physical progress
and disbursements, project completion is still forecast at 15-18 months
beyond the loan's present closing date. Project costs in US$ are likely to
be within appraisal estimates but rupiah costs are up significantly due to
devaluation.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan became effective in August; the initial implementation
has been slow.
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million Credit of
June 28. 1972; Effective Date: October 19, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated. The Credit has been entirely committed, and has been closed.
A completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the -



- 48 -                       ANNEX II
Page 22 of 24 pages
December 31, 1980 closing date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 50% devaluation of the
rupiah in November 1978; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the
reluctance of the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in
enforcing its safety and ship classification regulations. It is anticipated that
the scope of the loan will be broadened to include other than general cargo inter-
island ships and that an extension of the present closing date will be requested.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tan ung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
first construction contract for Basin III back up facilities is progressing
slowly due to the impact of the rupiah devaluation. The regional berths
component has likewise been affected although a contract for the new works
had been awarded since December 1977. These delays will probably postpone
overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to
estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has
been extended by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14. 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is scheduled
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13%1' in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is, however, expected to start in
1980 for completion by mid-1983.



- 49 -                       ANNEX II
Page 23 of 24 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete. Of the total,
6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been occupied.
The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available by March 1980, at which
time the project would be substantially completed.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Clbsing Date: March 31, 1980
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities. The project progress is generally according to schedule. Upgrading
costs for the first two-year program have been within the appraisal estimates.
However, the costs for the third-year program was affected to some degree
by the rupiah devaluation on November 15, 1978. About 3,435 ha of kampungs
in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the kampungs. Land acquisition problems still continue to cause
some delays in completing the requisite number of health facilities.
However, these difficulties are generally being overcome.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha),
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs.



- 50 -                       ATNEX II
Page 24 of 24 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Wlater Supply:  USS14.5 Million Loan
of October 31. 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1q80
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. All equipment supply and all major civil
works contracts, with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed
because of slow procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun
of about 30Z, caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and
devaluation, is expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering has been completed, and the establishment and development of
local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements
are expected to accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and
supplies are being delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  US$36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 51 -                               ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 1 year
(b) Project preparation coordinated by: NFCEP Project unit, with
consultant assistance
(c) First presented to IDA: July 1978
(d) First mission to consider project: July 1978
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: March 1979
(f) Completion of negotiations: February 1, 1980
(g) Planned credit effectiveness: June 1980
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government would create, and fill on a full-time basis, all
additional positions in the expanded NFCEP project unit, by July 1, 1980
(para. 38).
The Government would furnish the Association with the final
report of the organizational study no later than three months after its
completion; reallocation of project implementation responsibilities would be
as agreed between the Government and the Association (para. 38).






re - 0 . = t .... / ~~PAPUA  NEW~  GUINEA ............. ,S
AiU $  :0t              rt X   .         .....    
><    0,         o $ n     
- <- -0 mG,)-tt.1-S$
urL Si                            t  
i   :   t   S   0  0  If-> t < J'g V K = CX 0 Ni!
i '> < g ; a ~~~~4 '5  
->.  \  0       b O   -  g    0   t  0   0  0  0 S U  0    b  V:;  '   0 0soli
.A   :       t   ;S'    .0=f ''rl /;t   <          a
i      h  '   5        A             0   '     t  e 
T)69 
1:             =               ,,    S 
X, .- r X 
X 4' is TTiL f'S't;?f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
: x,MG  '  -f'S A    s 0f 
o~ '           00 \X 'g              ?       C
:<Z   4 .;             N       ,       0 f%'z    0
2                         NvEge-5  :



