Di CER:        CREDIT NUMBER 996 IND
Development Credit Agreement
(Second National Agricultural Extension Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 996 IND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3 , 1980, between the REPUBLIC OF
INDONESIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Project" means the project described in Schedule
2 to the Loan Agreement (National Food Crops Extension Project)
between the Borrower and the Bank, dated June 4, 1976, as such
Schedule was amended on May 3, 1979;
(b) "DGFCA" means the Directorate General of Food Crops
Agriculture in the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(c) "AAETE" means the Agency for Agricultural Education,
Training and Extension of the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(d) "BIMAS Program" means the Borrower's program (Bimbingan
Masal) administered through the BIMAS Secretariat for raising
food crop production and farm income by supplying credit and cash
inputs at subsidized prices, established pursuant to Presidential
Decree No. 95/1969 of the Borrower;
(e) "BIMAS Secretariat" means the executive body of the
BIMAS Program at the National Level; and


﻿-2-
(f) "Project Management Unit" means the unit established
in DGFCA under the First Project and consisting of the Project
Director and such staff as is referred to in SecLon 3.03 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty-two million dollars ($42,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 1
and September 1 commencing September 1, 1990, and ending March 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable


﻿-3-
on March 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, agricultural, engineering, financial,
training and extension practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Project shall be carried out by DGFCA on behalf
of AAETE while AAETE shall continue to coordinate agricultural
extension activities.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in Project
management, field extension methods, financial planning and
accounting, and in carrying out Part G of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association.   In order to provide the Bor-
rower with specialized assistance in formulating extension recom-
mendations with respect to various commodities, the Borrower shall
obtain the services of about 23 specialists by employing (i) an
organization which shall be responsible for providing the services
of not less than 15 specialists for the said purpose; and (ii)
individually employed specialists. The qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment of the said consultants and
organization shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation. The Borrower shall employ the said consultants and
organization not later than July 1, 1980, or such other date as
the Borrower and the Association shall agree.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not later than July 1,
1980, or such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree, establish such new positions in the Project Management Unit
as shall be required to bring the number of authorized positions


﻿-4-
in the said Unit to 50 professional staff, including: one Project
Director, 6 Assistant Directors, 4 chiefs of divisions and staff
of 9 functional sections in the said divisions and shall use its
best efforts to fill the said positions on a full time basis by
the said date.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Asso-
ciation the interim and final reports of the consultants employed
to carry out the study forming Part G of the Project not later
than three months after the completion of the said reports; (ii)
exchange views with the Association on the findings and recommen-
dations of the said reports as well as on the proposed phasing of
the implementation of the recommendations of the said study. Any
change in the arrangements for carrying out the Project set forth
in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement shall be made
as mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the


﻿-5-
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire not later than
six months before the construction is scheduled to start at any
location all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project at that location and shall upon the
Association's request, furnish to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project;
provided, however, that the Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire and make available to the Project,
the site of the headquarters of the Project not later than
April 1, 1980, or such other date as the Borrower and the Associ-
ation shall agree and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition and assignment, evidence satisfactory to
the Association that such land is available for purposes of
constructing the Project headquarters building.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for


﻿-6-
carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting all
expenditures described in Category (3) of the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts of DGFCA and
of the BIMAS Secretariat in respect of the Project (statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by the said auditors in respect
of the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of expen-
ditures have been used for the purpose for which they were pro-
vided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of DGFCA and the
BIMAS Secretariat and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
certificates of expenditure and shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times cause all
physical facilities and equipment provided under the Project to
be operated and maintained, and from time to time, promptly as
needed, all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, all
in accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
Sect-*on 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times ensure the
provision of adequate funds, facilities and other resources to
maintain in the Project Provinces the expanded level of extension
services to be provided following the completion of the Project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that Presidential Decree No. 45
of 1974, or Presidential Decree No. 95 of 1969, or Decree No.
190/Kpts/Org/V/1975 of the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the carrying
out of the Project, or the efficient management or operation of
DGFCA.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, the event specified in
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date July 3 , 1980, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obl.gations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provision of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Director General for International
Monetary Affairs
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 4
Jakarta
Indonesia
Cable address:                    Telex:
MINISTRY FINANCE                 DJMLN   JKT 45799
Jakarta                          DITJMON JKT 46415
DEPKEU JKT 44319
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  17,800,000        100%
(2) Materials and                 7,300,000
equipment
(a) imported                                  100% of foreign
expenditures
(b) locally                                   95% of local
manufactured                             expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) imported goods
locally procured                         65%
(3) Consultants' ser-            12,900,000        100%
vices, training,
short courses and
fellowships
(4) Unallocated                   4,000,000
TOTAL        42,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for


﻿- 10 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of parF.graph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Asb,u-4ation are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot filly meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the


﻿- 11 -
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which extends to 26 provinces of Indonesia,
is designed to expand food crop extension services to the thirteen
provinces not covered by the First Project, to introduce a
unified extension service for transmigration areas and to intro-
duce extension of technical recommendations covering small-
holder estate (commercial) crops, livestock, inland fisheries and
soil conservation activities into the extension programs developed
heretofore for food crops. The Project consists of the following
Parts:
Part A:
The strengthening of the headquarters Project management
unit through its internal reorganization and staff increases as
set forth in Section 3.03 of the Credit Agreement.
Part B:
A staffing program to increase provincial extension staff by
about 5,200 field extension workers (PPL), 1,120 field extension
supervisors (PPM) and 600 extension subject matter specialists
(PPS) whose main function shall be to train, brief, and provide
technical support to the PPLs. The said numbers include the staff
required for the transmigration areas.
Part C:
Completion of a program for construction or upgrading of
about 1,120 rural extension centers, construction of a limited
amount of staff housing in remote areas, the expansion of the
Project's headquarter's facilities, procurement of equipment
and furniture and provision of vehicles as agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
Part D:
Procurement or production of extension materials.
Part E:
Training of agricultural extension staff through local
training courses and a limited number of overseas short courses
and fellowships.


﻿- 13 -
Part F:
The utilization of services of consultants as described
in Section 3.02 of the Credit Agreement.
Part G:
A study to develop recommendations for strengthening and
improving the organization and management of agricultural exten-
sion services in Indonesia with particular reference to streng-
thening the role of AAETE.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1985.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Indonesia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 15 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Indonesia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Indonesia equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further-
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 16 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with the
Borrower's procedures for such contracts, provided, however,
that:
(a) all such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of
standard tender and contract documents furnished to the Asso-
ciation not later than July 1, 1980 and with respect to which
the Association shall have notified the Borrower that it has no
objections; and
(b) paragraphs 3.1 through 3.8, and 3.10 and 3.11 of Part
A of the Guidelines shall apply to bid opening and evaluation
and to the award of the contracts.
2.   Contracts for extension materials, boats, horses, simple
agricultural tools, extension and office equipment and furniture
may be awarded after competitive bidding advertised locally
in accordance with the Borrower's procedures for such contracts.
3.   Proprietory items of extension materials may be procured
directly from the suppliers of such equipment, provided, however,
that the Association's concurrence is obtained prior to procure-
ment of any such item or group of items.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more and contracts for equip-
ment, materials and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 17 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver.
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract,
or issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases
of extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract
by more than 15% of the original price, the Porrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  3         day of         ,
198 O0.
FOR SECRETARY


