Report No. PID9869
Project Name                     Brazil-Programmatic Fiscal Reform
Structural Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and de Caribbean
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       BRPE60575
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agencies            Ministerio da Fazenda Nacional: Esplanada
dos Ministerios, Bloco P 70048-900
Brasilia D.F. Brazil. Dr. Marcos
Caramuru de Paiva Tel: 55-61-322-3065
Ministerio do Planejamento, OrOamento e
Gestao: Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco
K 70040-906, Brasilia D.F. Brazil. Dr.
Jose Guilherme Almeida dos Reis;
Tel: 55-61- 429-4022
Date PID Prepared                January 16, 2001
Appraisal Date                   December 4, 2000
Board Date                       January 18, 2001
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.     Recent Macro Economic and Fiscal Performance. Since the early 1990s,
Brazil has been engaged in a major reform of its economy, moving away from
import substitution and state-owned enterprises towards greater emphasis on
private initiative, competition and international integration. Considerable
progress has been made in controlling inflation and creating an improved
economic environment for private enterprise, fiscal adjustment and reform of
the public sector. From 1992 to 1997 Brazil experienced a very successful
growth performance. Annual growth averaged 4.2w, a major improvement over the
average for the previous five-year period (0.0%). Factors contributing to
this positive outcome include a trade liberalization during the early 1990s
and a well-designed and implemented economic stabilization program initiated
in mid-1994 (the Real Plan), together with a favorable international economic
environment. By contrast, the two and a half years from mid-1997 to end-1999
saw a much more volatile international economic environment with a series of
crises in international markets. These crises adversely affected growth in
Latin America and Brazil was no exception. The average rate of growth during
1998-99 was only 0.3%. However, by the end of 1999, recovery, led by the
industrial sector (particularly consumer durables and capital goods), was
firmly established. GDP growth rates between the last quarter of 1998 and the
last quarter of 1999 and between each of the first two quarters of 1999 and
the first two quarters of 2000 averaged 3.9%, close to the 4.0% consensus
estimate of Brazil's likely average growth over the next several years.
2.     As a result of the stabilization plan introduced in 1994, annual
inflation declined from over 2000% in 1993 to less than 2% in 1998. Even the
large currency depreciation of January 1999 had a fairly limited small pass-
through impact on inflation. Inflation in 1999 was contained to about 20% on
broad price indices and around 8% on consumer price indices. This was the
result of sluggish aggregate demand and continued monetary tightness.



Following the change in the exchange rate regime in 1999, from a crawling
band to a floating rate, Brazil introduced a sophisticated inflation
targeting framework. Targets were set at 8%, 6%, 4% and 4% respectively for
the IPCA index duringl999-2002, with a margin on each side of two percentage
points. Inflation in 1999 was 8.9%. Inflation during the 12-month period
through November, 2000 was 6%, which is exactly the mid-point of the
governments 2000 target. In its September 2000 inflation report, BCB expected
an inflation below 4% for 2001 (somewhat lower than the market's median
expectation in September of 4.3% for 2001). With an improved fiscal framework
and assuming an absence of external shocks, the inflation targets for 2001-02
remain realistic. These targets provide the anchor for the Government's
monetary policy.
3.     Fiscal policy performance has also improved considerably. As early as
1995, the Government attempted to address the structural fiscal deficit
unmasked by price stability. However, lack of legislative consensus meant
that fiscal adjustment lagged behind other parts of the economic reform
program. As a result, Brazil has been dependent on large capital inflows.
This dependence coupled with the prevailing exchange rate regime implied
vulnerability to sentiments in international markets. The Government
responded competently and effectively to the loss of market confidence in
late-1998 and early-1999 with a combination of tightened monetary policy and
fast-acting fiscal adjustment measures coupled with a new drive for
structural fiscal reforms. Throughout 1999 and 2000, fiscal adjustment has
been carried out with tremendous effort and remarkable discipline and is
achieving the ambitious targets that were set. These measures, taken together
with the shift to a floating exchange rate in January 1999 have been
successful in preserving economic stability and regaining market confidence.
Provided the external environment remains benign, Brazil is now approaching
steady, non-inflationary growth. Brazil's remaining economic vulnerability
results from its continuing, though declining, fiscal and current account
deficits. As fiscal deficits are closely correlated with current account
deficits, fiscal adjustment at both national and sub-national levels are
critical for continuing to reduce vulnerability and restore growth.
4.     The Government's   Fiscal Reform Program. Following the Fiscal and
Administrative Reform Loan approved last March, the operation proposed here
is being designed to support a deepening of Brazil's fiscal reforms. These
reforms are aimed at improving economic efficiency through macroeconomic
stability, restructuring of taxes and expenditures, and better choices of
risks and return in assets and liabilities. Brazil's present fiscal reform
efforts can be classified in four closely related areas, as discussed below.
Fiscal Balance
5.     The Fiscal Stability Program for 1999-01, introduced by the Federal
Government in October 1998 and strengthened in March 1999, responded to the
considerable financial turbulence that Brazil experienced in 1998, as a
result of the adverse international financial environment and Brazil's
expansionary fiscal policy through 1998. The program originally called for
public sector primary surpluses of 3.1%, 3.25%, and 3.35% of GDP respectively
for 1999, 2000, and 2001. The target for 1999 was met (3.13%) and the target
for 2000 (revised to 3.4% of GDP due to revised GDP) is likely to be met as
well (the primary surplus through October was 4% of GDP). The target for 2001
has been revised to 3.0% and the target for 2002 was set at 2.7%. By October
2000, the Government had reduced the debt/GDP ratio to 49.0%    of GDP (from
53.4% in January 1999, its highest point after the floating of the exchange
rate) of GDP. The debt/GDP ratio by the end of 2000 is likely to be within
49%-50%. The Government now expects that the Debt/GDP ratio will fall within
- 2 -



46W-48t by end-2001.
6.     The Fiscal Stability Program discussed above introduced a consistent
framework for fiscal sustainability. The key issue with aggregate fiscal
planning in Brazil has been the weakness of the link between expenditure and
revenue flows, on the one hand, and net public debt levels, on the other.
That is, expenditure levels more often than not were set without adequate
consideration of the implications of those levels on debt, the burden of
which falls on subsequent administrations. As a result, the burden of
interest costs increased the stock of debt.
7.     In May of this year, Congress approved a new fiscal code (Complementary
Law 101, 2000 - known as Law of Fiscal Responsibility (Lei de
Responsabilidade Fiscal), or LFR. This Law firmly establishes fiscal
sustainability planning and implementation to governments at all levels, as
introduced by the Federal Government through its Fiscal Stability Program,
described above. The new law, based on Article 163 of Brazil's Constitution
(requiring the regulation of public finances), covers (i) fiscal targets;
(ii) mechanisms to correct deviations from fiscal targets; (iii) a mechanism
to encourage accurate revenue projections; (iv) limits on permanent
expenditure increases, personnel expenditures, net debt, gross bonded federal
debt, and borrowing; (v) prohibition of intergovernmental lending, except
through guarantees or by public financial institutions; (vi) transparency
(disclosure of fiscal laws, accounts and reports); and (vii) federal
consolidation of overall public sector accounts and a federal registry of
public sector debt. Enactment of the Law represents a major breakthrough in
terms of addressing Brazil's structural fiscal problems: it will allow Brazil
to complete the transition from a past where a disregard for the impact of
expenditures on debt led to an unsustainable fiscal stance, to a new
environment in which sustainability comes to the forefront in determining
aggregate expenditures and indebtedness.
8.     Furthermore, Congress approved a Fiscal Crimes Law, which includes
dismissal (with possible reparation payments), prison, and fines as possible
penalties to those responsible for various fiscal crimes. The new law (Law
No. 10.028 of October 19, 2000), added non-compliance with key LFR provisions
to Brazil's Penal Code (Decree-Law 2848 of 1940), to Law 1079 of 1950
(covering misconduct by federal and state authorities, including the
president, the attorney general (procurador geral), ministers, governors, and
state secretaries), and to Decree-Law 201 of 1967 (covering misconduct of
municipal elected officials).
Structure, Assignment And Earmarking Of Taxes
9.     Four key issues have been raised by Brazil's tax system. First, the tax
burden varies widely across economic activities because value added tax rates
vary widely and because the burden of the cascading taxes, on which the tax
system relies extensively, varies widely across economic activities. Second,
assignment of an origin-based value added tax to states is believed to
encourage an inefficient location of economic activity, as states extend tax
subsidies to attract industrial investments. A related problem is that the
origin based tax tends to concentrate revenues in the large producing states
and against exporting states. While this is partly corrected by applying a
lower tax rate on interstate trade, the resulting distribution of the valued
added tax remains inequitable across states. Third, earmarking of revenues
has introduced considerable rigidity to fiscal policy, as the earmarking in
effect puts a floor on certain expenditures, possibly limiting efficient
choices in fiscal adjustment and in budget programming. Constitutionally
mandated earmarking of revenues occurs chiefly through the federal social
security budget, which earmarks about a third of public sector taxes to
-3 -



social expenditures (education, health, retirement and severance benefits).
Constitutional mandates earmark about half of total public sector taxes to
public expenditures in the social sector. While these earmarking provisions
may improve the stability of financing of some areas of expenditures, they
have also proved to be a constraint on budget management. As a result of this
constraint, Brazil established the Fiscal Stabilization Fund (now the DRU
Desvincula6ao das Receitas da Uniao ), which "taxes" 20t of the earmarked
proceeds to improve the flexibility of the budget. Nevertheless, remaining
earmarking and expenditure rigidities have continued to make it difficult to
contain expenditures when fiscal considerations require it. Fourth, sharing
of federal revenues has possibly inhibited tax collection effort at the state
and local levels. States received 20t of its revenues from federal
constitutional transfers in 1998, but spent 25t on transfers to
municipalities. At the state level, transfers in the form of debt forgiveness
have been the main factor discouraging efforts at better collection of their
value added tax. Municipalities received 71- of their revenues as transfers
from the federal government and the states; this may explain weak efforts to
collect the taxes assigned to them (chiefly the services tax and the urban
real estate tax).
10.    A reform to simplify the complexity of the tax system and improve tax
assignment has been extensively discussed in Congress, although consensus
with the executive has not been achieved yet. The most recent tax proposal
submitted by the Government would (i) establish national legislation for the
value added tax (in lieu of independent state-level legislation); (ii) shift
the value added tax from an origin-based tax to a destination based tax over
a seven-year transition period; (iii) and replace the existing cascading
federal taxes by non-cascading taxes over a period of three years. This
reform has not been included among the actions to be supported by the
Programmatic Sector Adjustment operation. The reason is that, despite strong
interest on all sides, the reform remains controversial and the proposal will
require two rounds of votes, with qualified majority, in each house of
Congress. Therefore, given the political cycle, with a change in
administration in 2003, there is a significant likelihood that approval of
the reform will not take place within the 2000-02 horizon envisaged by the
proposed operation
Allocation and Technical Efficiency of Expenditures
11.    In Brazil's budget, the four-year plan (the Plano Pluriannual, or PPA)
is the fundamental document that aims to establish public sector priorities.
A major fiscal reform underway is comprised by the actions to make the PPA
relevant, operational, and effective. The Government began development of a
new PPA framework with the previous PPA (1996-1999; Brasil en AOao), a
program that identified a number of key regional investments within a new
planning framework. The distinguishing characteristics of the new PPA
approach, as implemented thus far, are as follows:
12.    The new 2000-03 PPA, entitled AvanQa Brasil, is based partially on an
earlier diagnostic study (Estudo dos Eixos Nacionais de Integra6ao e
Desenvolvimento, or Study of National Axes for Integration and Development)
that, based on the geographic and economic characteristics of each of
Brazil's region, identified priority investments of R$317 billion to be
undertaken by the public and private sector over eight years.
13.    The PPA is also based on other fiscal reforms, including setting a
multi-year spending framework, and introducing program and performance
budgeting. Specifically, in Avan6a Brasil, all Federal Government
expenditures are grouped in 388 Programs, each with a performance indicator
and clear 2003 target (e.g., infant mortality levels). Each program is
- 4 -



comprised of set of activities or actions deemed relevant for achieving the
target. A program manager was appointed for each of the 388 programs, and is
responsible for coordinating the actions to achieve the PPA objective. The
2001 Budget was submitted on a program basis. In budget formulation,
resources (calculated by the Planning Ministry, not by the line ministries)
are allocated by program and objectives, rather than to administrative units
(Ministries). Avan6a Brasil also integrates capital and current expenditures
under the same Program categories, thus reinforcing the objective-based
programmatic approach to public expenditure management.
14.    The PPA also has strategic aspects. Of the 388 programs, 87 have been
designated as strategic programs of the Government, meaning these program
objectives are top Government priorities with a preference in budget
execution over other discretionary programs. Further, the PPA explicitly
acknowledges the means of program implementation, or ways the goals would be
attained. Specifically, the federal PPA is more aware and explicit of the
partnerships with sub-national governments and with the private sector in the
implementation of PPA goals. For example, in the delivery of health outcomes,
a strong interface between federal transfers and sub-national implementation
is critical for success. In infrastructure investment with a public interest,
strong private sector ownership, financing, and/or management are also
necessary for attaining the goals. In this regard, the Government is
establishing the Brazilian Network of Investment Promotion (Invest in
Brazil), which will disseminate investment opportunities with the expectation
of attracting investors to the infrastructure and social projects envisaged
in the PPA.
15.    A manager for each program has been appointed, with a view to promote
better results through management and accountability. In terms of management,
appointed managers are presently responsible for monitoring programs to
identify problems in implementation and for promoting coordination among
relevant actors to exploit potential synergy from related activities. In
terms of accountability, there is a program performance monitoring system in
place (the SIG) and outcomes are reported to the Ministry of Planning, where
a team of 40 professionals is using an evaluation framework developed by the
Government to assess each of the 388 PPA programs and report to the
President by the end of March 2001. The assessment is to be used to adjust
PPA implementation and determine proposed priorities under the next draft LDO
to be submitted to Congress on April 30 2001. The Government also plans to
review its general program evaluation framework during 2001 with Bank
cooperation under the possible technical assistance loan. To further promote
transparency and accountability, the SIG is available on the internet, with
the name and phone number of each manager included, in addition to budget
execution and performance data.
16.    A fundamental requirement to achieve fiscal efficiency is that the
budget reflect strategic priorities and expenditures be made and tracked
accordingly. Asset and liability management is also an important component
for the achievement of fiscal efficiency. Effective monitoring and evaluation
of expenditures, assets and liabilities, are key components of efficient
fiscal policies and operations. The planning and management of government
programs on a multiyear basis, discussed above, further supports the
achievement of targeted budgetary outputs and outcomes. An Integrated
Financial Management System (IFMS) facilitates the administration of the
relevant information flows, tracking revenues and expenses, and providing
managers with comprehensive information on the financial and physical
execution of the budget required for planning, decision making and
evaluation.
-5-



17.    In 1987, Brazil's federal government established an IFMS, known as
SIAFI. The system was placed under the responsibility of the Natural
Treasury Secretariat (STN) at the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Through an
extensive telecommunications network, SIAFI outreaches to approximately 4,650
spending units under the federal government's and the social security
budgets. It is also used for the consolidation of the financial statements
of the federal, state and municipal governments, to produce the consolidated
financial statements of the Union. Through SIAFI, the SNT performs the
financial planning of the federal budget; centrally processes and records all
budgetary and financial transactions of spending units, thus effectively
controlling the execution of the budget and automatically making the
accounting postings thereon, producing the federal government's financial
statements and financial reports required at the various government
management levels; and, concentrates all federal government cash revenues in
the treasury's unified account (Conta Unica do Tesouro) held at the Central
Bank, and centralizes payments made on behalf of spending units during budget
execution. SIAFI offers government managers consultation and reporting
facilities, providing access to current and past fiscal year data bases, and
permits the importation of data to other management applications.
18.    While SIAFI remains a sound operating IT system, it is in urgent need
of technological upgrading after 13 years in operation. It was originally
developed using programming methodologies and languages that have been
largely surpassed and its internal architecture permits user access only by
way of terminals, disallowing the use of Windows and other graphic
environment facilities. Its data base technology has also been overcome not
having the flexibility and agility offered by a new generation of graphic
environment data base versions for the expedient customization SIAFI's
functionality pursuant changes in financial management legislation,
policies and processes. This is particularly important in terms of new
functional requirements related to the PPA and the LRF.
19.    To address these and other relevant technological and functional
issues, the government has designed the SIAFI 21st Century project, aiming at
replacing the current SIAFI with a new system using the latest technological
advances, improving its current budget, cash management and accounting
capabilities, and accommodating its functionality to the new fiscal
management framework defined by the PPA, the LRF and emphasis on
asset/liability management. The project calls for important enhancements in
the system's architecture, establishing a three-layer structure (data/
applications/user interface) which will greatly facilitate the future
adaptation of the system to technological and functional changes, and that
will offer user-friendly environments and data retrieval and analysis tools
so that the systems becomes a real managerial system, rather than remain
mainly an operations and financial recording facility.
20.    The new system will be structured in four basic subsystems.    The
budget, financial and patrimonial subsystem would perform most budgetary and
cash management functions of the current SIAFI, with enhanced financial
planning capabilities and with added functionality serving the information
requirements of the PPA and the LRF.    A second subsystem will focus on
asset/liability administration, with capability to handle the information
flows and the management requirements of an assets portfolio amounting to
approximately US$185 billion, and a liabilities portfolio, including internal
and external debt obligations, amounting to approximately US$335 billion. A
new and third subsystem will serve the monitoring requirements established by
the LRF for the federal and particularly for the state and municipal
governments, including the management of constitutional and voluntary
- 6 -



transfers made by the federal level to local governments. A fourth subsystem
is intended to modernize the internal management of the STN, implementing
work flow and other technological systems to improve operational efficiency
and controls.
Debt Management Institutions
21.    Debt management is a fundamental determinant of macroeconomic
vulnerability and of fiscal performance. Interest payments on the public debt
turned Brazil's primary surplus of 4.3% of GDP into a nominal deficit of
3.49 of GDP, thereby accounting for 7.7% of GDP from January to September of
2000. While a primary surplus can offset the burden of interest payments to
generate a sustainable debt path, efficient debt management can reduce the
primary effort required through a choice of a debt portfolio structure that
mitigates the risk component of interest rates faced by the public sector.
22.    Growth of Government Debt. Brazil's net public sector debt grew very
rapidly from 28.5 percent of GDP in 1995 to 53.4 percent in January 1999,
raising doubts about the sustainability of economic policy and on the
country's capacity for proper debt management. These concerns were
compounded by the short maturity of the domestic public debt, and a rapidly
changing operating environment characterized by increased reliance on market
sources for financing, greater exposure to financial risks resulting from
financial liberalization, and larger international capital flows. The urgency
of the situation was indicated by the international attention paid to
Brazil's debt structure as a source of vulnerability in late 1998, and by the
decision to shift from exchange rate targeting to inflation targeting in the
first half of 1999. Moreover, the period since March 1999 has been
characterized by a rapid evolution in debt policies to take advantage of the
new monetary policy environment.
23.    Composition of Domestic Debt. As of September 2000,    the net public
sector debt of R$ 548 billion (or 48.5% of GDP was comprised of federal net
debt (29.4% of GDP), sub-national net debt (16.7%, mostly state governments),
and the debt of state-owned enterprises (2.49, mostly state enterprises). Net
internal debt constituted 39.0% of GDP, while net external debt was 9.5%.
Over time, the share of net public sector domestic debt relative to net
external debt has increased. Domestic debt comprised 66 percent of total
debt in January 1997, but increased to 78 percent in December 1998. Despite
the devaluation in January 1999, the relative shares, as of June 2000, have
remained at this level. Gross federal securities outstanding in the domestic
market in June 2000, excluding Treasury securities held by the Central Bank,
amounted to R$511.9 billion or 45.3 percent of GDP. The total stock of
federal securities has increased substantially since 1993, reflecting
increased financing costs due to higher interest rates, recognition of debts,
and recapitalization of state-owned banks.
24.    The Government is presently undertaking a reform of its debt management
institutions. The reform comprises actions to increase governance and
capacity for debt management. The changes will allow the Government to better
address debt management challenges, including a desirable move towards a more
even distribution of maturities and increasing the use of fixed-rate
instruments. A good balance in the use of available instruments should allow
Brazil to minimize the volatility of the real interest rate paid on the debt,
the parameter which, together with the primary deficit, directly affects debt
dynamics.
25.     The Government has already undertaken actions to improve the governance
and capacity of debt management institutions, including the decision to
centralize debt management at the treasury (through a formal agreement
between the Federal Government and the Central Bank); the creation of an
- 7 -



analytical middle office, a unified back office and a unit to assess and
quantify contingent liabilities; the introduction of a risk management
framework (Asset Liability Management), with preliminary debt risk analysis
completed and initial balance sheet produced; and several actions to improve
primary and secondary markets of government securities.
26.    Under its program, the Government will further improve debt management
institutions through actions in the targeted areas as follows:
? Governance: (i) establish a debt management committee responsible for
policy guidelines(minister level); (ii) implement centralization, as per
agreement between the Federal Government and the Central Bank; (iii)
prepare assessment report on the benefit of centralizing the different
back offices of the project-related debt operations in Treasury; (iv)
introduce code of conduct for treasury officials; (v) establish written
debt management guidelines and operational procedures, with clear
responsibilities for back, middle and front offices;.
? Capacity: (i) bring middle office capacity closer to best practice
through upgrade of human resources(training program and new hires) and
purchase and development of analytical tools. (ii) Diagnose IT needs and
produce action plan; (iii) recognition of liabilities which has begun
through the obligation (under the LFR) to indicate fiscal risks in an
Annex to the LDO.
? Legal and organizational framework: Selected key issues with regard to the
legal framework are (i) clearer definition of debt management objectives;
(ii) centralization of authority to issue new debt complemented by
mechanisms which prevent the potential over-issuance of debt; (iii)
regulations concerning trading of options and derivatives in the domestic
market. the key requirement regard to the organizational framework is to
ensure that it be clearly specified, that there be coordination and
sharing of information, and that the mandates of the respective players be
clear.
? Benchmark and Annual borrowing plan: issue borrowing plan and submit
initial debt portfolio strategic benchmark and medium term funding
strategy for internal review by senior authorities. Disclosure of annual
borrowing plan is expected to occur following approval of the 2001 budget,
which is in the final stages in Congress. This plan will provide some
signal regarding an initial benchmark and medium term debt strategy.
THE LOAN
PROGRAM OBJECTIVE
27.    Given the background discussed in the previous chapter,    the operation
described below would support a program with the following objective: to
improve Brazil's aggregate fiscal performance, and the quality of public
expenditures (better allocational and technical efficiency and better
delivery of public services), including the quality of debt service
expenditures. This objective falls within the CAS objectives of development
and implementation of structural reforms and fiscal improvement. Pursuit of
these objectives continues to be urgent to sustain the gains that Brazil has
achieved by reducing inflation and implementing the Government's rigorous
fiscal adjustment program during 1999-2000.
PROGRAM DESCRIPTION
28.    The Program consists of policy actions to improve fiscal performance,
public sector expenditure management, and debt management chiefly through
continued implementation of the Government's primary surplus and debt targets
(the Fiscal Stability Program), deepening of Fiscal Discipline (through the
new Fiscal Responsibility Law), a better design of the public expenditure
- 8 -



planning and implementation process (through the new PPA and improved
monitoring of expenditures); and more professional debt management (through
better debt management institutions). They are classified into three of the
four areas discussed in the previous chapter (fiscal, expenditure, and debt
management. Tax reform is excluded because it is not expected to materialize
within the PFRSAL horizon (2000-02). If passed, it could be included as part
of a future operation under the program.
DESCRIPTION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
29.    The Bank's financial assistance in support of the program would be
comprised of two or three one tranche loans with a possible total amount of
$1.2-1.5 billion. The amount of this proposed first loan, $757.58 million
(including the amount of the front-end fee), would disburse soon after
effectiveness, in support of the policy actions that have been completed.
These include chiefly the issuance of the Fiscal Responsibility Law and the
Fiscal Crimes Law, the introduction of the new multi-annual budgeting
framework (the PPA), the early design of an upgraded financial management
system, and initial actions to improved debt management governance and
capacity (para. 25). Future policy actions, including compliance with fiscal
planning and transparency provisions of the LFR, improved budget evaluation
and integration of planning and evaluation to budgeting, implementation of
the SIAFI 21st Century Project, regulation of administrative reform, and
follow up actions to improve debt management governance and capacity (para.
26) would be supported by one or two additional loans depending on the timing
of the actions. A second loan of $757.58 million could disburse between June
and December of 2001, if all of the expected future actions materialize and
is approved by the Board.
30.    The Bank's financial assistance will help Brazil meet its external
financing requirements, while the proposed reform program supports medium-
term fiscal adjustment. During the year 2001, Brazil's current account
deficit balance is expected to amount to about $24.8 billion, of which $5.0
billion are expected to come from multilateral institutions. Moreover, the
loan will also help meet the federal government's financing requirement of
about R$15 billion in 2001, and will also help lengthen the term structure of
the public sector's debt, which would reduce vulnerability to financial
shocks.
31.    The financial assistance provided by the proposed PFRSAL will be
complemented by a TA project that would include four components: (i)
assistance in the implementation of the LFR (e.g., in governments' various
obligations under the LFR); (ii) assistance in the implementation of the PPA
(e.g., in methods of program evaluation) (iii) assistance in the proposed
development of the SIAFI 21st century program; and (iv) assistance in the
improvement of debt management institutions.
PROGRAM BENEFITS
32.    The overall benefits of the program would be to improve Brazil's
performance on growth, poverty reduction and public service delivery to its
citizens. Direct benefits of the program components include: (i) continued
aggregate fiscal balance; (ii) improved fiscal planning, transparency, and
performance incentives, including stronger incentives for sub-national
creditworthiness; (iii) an improved federal financial management system, (iv)
improved incentives for civil service performance; (v) a long term
expenditure framework (the PPA), closely linked to the budget, and (vi)
quality of debt management raised to international best practice for large
open economies. These direct benefits translate into the more fundamental
aims of fiscal sustainability, allocative and technical efficiency of public
expenditures, and better public services to Brazil's citizens. These are aims
-9-



that ultimately have a bearing on economic welfare. Fiscal sustainability
implies an eventual reduction in debt levels that will help reduce real
interest rates, increase economic growth and reduce poverty. Increased
allocative and technical efficiency of public services has a direct bearing
on economic welfare of the population. Also, given the importance of
education and health in public expenditures, these services play a direct
role in poverty reduction.
33.    Poverty Category: No. Poverty focus does not apply.
Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mauricio Carrizosa
InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Assessment of fiscal risks is being done in the context of the Law of Fiscal
Responsibility, which requires governments to undertake an assessment of fiscal risks
and indicate the measures to address them, should they materialize.
- 10 -



