                                                                                         87576
                                                                                       CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                         EDS2001-0233
                                                                                             May 23,2001
                                                                                             02:14:38 PM



Statement by Abdu1rahman Almofadhi
Date of Meeting: May 24, 2001

                Brazil: Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report; First
             Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan; and Fiscal and
                    Financial Management Technical Assistance Project


       The recovery from the 1998/99 crisis has been impressive. GDP grew by an estimated
4.5 percent in 2000, compared to less than one percent growth in 1999, and is expected to grow
at between 3.5-4.5 percent this year. The fiscal targets for 1999 and 2000 have been met, and the
Government is expected to meet the revised target of primary surplus to GDP ratio of 3 percent
for 2001. Exports, which have declined by 6.5 percent in 1999, grew by 14 percent in 2000. and
are expected to show a similar growth this year. Inflation has been tamed and was only 6 percent
in 2000. These are by no means small achievements. The Government is to be commended.

      The CAS Progress Report is very rich reflecting, among other things. the World Bank
Group's long and extensive partnership with the country. The issues discussed in the report are
many. But, I will make the following selective comments:

        First, as stated in the progress report, the economy remains vulnerable to external shocks.
especially to interest-rate and capital-flow shocks. Notwithstanding the progress achieved to
stabilize the level of Brazil's public sector debt, the size and composition of this debt means that
increases in interest rates would require further increase in the primary fiscal surplus. Given that
the Government is already running primary fiscal surpluses of about 3 percent of GDP, further
adjustments could prove challenging. In addition, such adjustments would have a dampening
effect on growth. However, recent experience shows that the Government is capable of taking
effective measures to offset the effect of such external shocks to the economy.

        Second, to sustain and possibly exceed the projected growth rates for the medium term.
the Government needs to accelerate the implementation of ongoing micro and structural reforms
with the aim of reducing inefficiencies and increasing competitiveness and productivity. This
would include reforming the tax, social security and pension systems; and the regulatory and
financial sector reform. In this context, the proposed Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan would contribute to lowering interest rates and increasing productivity, thereby enabling the
economy achieve higher long-term growth.
                                                                   2



         Third, I agree with staff that the current CAS objectives of poverty reduction, fiscal
reforn1s, renewed growth, governance and environmental management remain valid, and I
welcome the progress made in achieving these objectives. I also agree with and support the shift
to structure the Bank's assistance into sub-programs of lending and non-lending tasks, and to
prioritize states for direct state-level assistance. This would improve selectivity and increase the
effectiveness of the Bank's assistance to Brazil.

        Fourth, I am pleased to note the strong partnership between the Bank and IDB, and the
close collaboration between the Bank and the IMF. I am also pleased to note that internal
partnership among the World Bank Group is well coordinated and is becoming increasingly
effective. This is clearly demonstrated in the Coordination between the IBRD, IFC and MIGA in
implementing the Private Sector Strategy.

        Fifth, the Bank's portfolio in Brazil continues to perform well and to achieve or exceed
the Base-Case triggers, in spite of major pressures from fiscal adjustment. Nonetheless, I have
two points to make on portfolio implementation. The first point concerns the large number of
project closing date extensions. I believe that such extensions mean that a significant amount of
Bank resources would continue to be allocated for supervision, which would have otherwise been
allocated for project preparation or ESW. It would be helpful to know from staff how many
projects are expected to be extended, what are the reasons for the delay in implementation, and
what approximately would this entail in terms of allocations for supervision resources.

        My second point on the portfolio concerns the Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural
Adjustment, which the Board approved on January 18. I have noted from Table Annex B8 on
page 40, that the $757 million in support of the operation have not been disbursed as of April II
of this year. I believe the project has not been approved (ratified) by Congress, and therefore has
not become effective. If this is the case, I find this surprising given that the conditions for Board
approval have already been implemented, and that these were agreed with the Government based
on a broad consultation in the country. In any case, I hope that this project becomes effective
soon so that the country can benefit from the much needed financial support.

       Finally on the CAS Progress Report, I can support the proposed level and composition of
lending and the supporting ESW.

       Turning now to the two accompanying operations, I can support them. Regarding the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, I have the following three comments to make:

       The first point concerns the programmatic approach, which I believe is appropriate. The
envisaged constitutional amendments needed to allow fundamental financial sector legislation as
well as restructuring the federal banks are politically difficult. The programmatic approach
allows for unforeseen implementation delays and more time to develop consensus and
agreement.

       The second point concerns the cost of intermediation in Brazil, which is one of the
highest in the world. This is a major constraint to the development of the financial sector and the


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                   3



growth of the private sector. By lowering intennediation cost, the proposed operation would
significantly contribute to economic development of the country.

        The third point concerns the soundness of Brazil's banking system. Paragraph 42 states
that currently, "risks to systemic stability in the Brazilian banking sector are considered low".
This came to me as a welcome surprise.

       In conclusion, I want to commend the staff on the quality of the three documents and on
the high quality of assistance to the Brazilian authorities. I wish the authorities every success in
meeting the challenges of their reform agenda.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
