                                                                                             87577
                                                                                         CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                           EDS200 1-0234

                                                                                              May 23,2001
                                                                                              06:07:57PM




Statement by Eugene Miagkov
Date ofMeeting: May 24, 2001

                 Brazil: Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, First
                Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, Fiscal and
                     Financial Management Technical Assistance Project

We would like to commend staff on this CAS Progress Report for Brazil. The document
submitted is clear, concise and provides useful insights into progress ofBrazil's reforms. We
were pleased that Brazil maintains excellent prospects for sustainable poverty reduction and is
advancing contribution to the International Development Goals. At the same time there is a need
to continue vigorously with targeted poverty reduction to reverse impact of the 1998/99 crisis on
the poor and resolve remaining poverty challenges. We found the data provided in the CAS
Progress Report on recent poverty reduction trends very useful. While in 1999 national poverty
rate rose 1.3 percent from 1998 level, a poverty measure based on labor income in six
metropolitan areas (PME) in 1999-2000 shows a drop by more than one percentage point. This is
very encouraging. We look forward to receiving more most recent poverty reduction trends in
future CAS documents.

Overall, the current situation in Brazil is characterized by stability, high potential for successful
implementation of the objectives set out in the 2000-2002 CAS, and strong government
commitment and capacity for continuing reform. A decline in vulnerability to external shocks
and a high capacity for tight fiscal management have earned Brazil's access to international
capital markets. However, risks remain and have to be managed appropriately to preserve the
right balance between poverty reduction goals and fiscal discipline. We would like to underscore
the need to sustain firm debt/GDP and primary fiscal targets. The unexpected drop in growth of
GDP deflator and a revision of the primary fiscal surplus target for 2001 from 3.35 to 3.0 percent
points to the fact that external risks can pose a certain threat to adjustment process. The external
factors can also represent a risk for poverty reduction that's why the Bank should be fully
engaged in order to sustain positive achievements in the social area.
-
In this regard it is important to underscore the role of Projeto Alvorada for targeted social
policies which was introduced after the last CAS. It is impressive in its scope and we welcome
the strong medium-term focus on factors underlying poverty reduction. The project will improve
coordination between different social programs and help substantially advance education
policies. At the same time we find that funding of $1.1 bn by World Bank and IDB (World Bank
funding is not precisely indicated) is not quite adequate for the total program spending of
                                                                  2



$13.8bn. Would staffplease explain?

We were pleased to note that the Bank lending and non-lending operations are proceeding well
and even slightly exceeding targets on targeted poverty reduction and fiscal reforms. With regard
to portfolio quality we noticed that the portfolio performance and management indicators have
somewhat deteriorated from 2000 to 2001 with the percent of problem projects by amount going
up to 14.2. This is very close to the 15% trigger indicated in the CAS. The document does not
offer direct explanation for the decline in quality. It might be useful to have an account of this
from the staffs perspective.

At the conclusion, we would like to support the extension of the current CAS to cover FY03 as
outlined in the CAS schedule.

First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan,

We believe the First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan is in line with the
objectives set out in the CAS. We urge the staff to closely monitor its implementation, and look
forward to discussing the application of this programmatic approach in the context of other
middle income countries.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
