Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2902 JO
                 (Shidiya Phosphate Mine Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                 JORDAN PHOSPHATE MINES CO., LTD.
                      Dated February 10, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2902 JO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and JORDAN PHOSPHATE
MINES CO., LTD. (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS (A) the Hashemite  Kingdom  of Jordan (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
and
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Articles of Association"  means  the  Articles of Asso-
ciation of the Borrower  dated  March  8,  1949, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
     (b)  "By-laws"  means  the  By-laws  of  the  Borrower  dated
April 29, 1987, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (c)  "Mine" means the Shidiya  phosphate  mine in the Shidiya
phosphate deposit, located in the south of Jordan approximately 50
kilometers south-east of  the  city  of  Ma'an  and 120 kilometers
north-east of the port of Aqaba; and
     (d)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to thirty-
one million dollars ($31,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open  and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  in  a  bank
acceptable to the Bank,  on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and  payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
Page  3
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section and Section 2.08:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the Guarantor a
guarantee fee annually on September  15  on the amount of the Loan
withdrawn and outstanding from time  to  time  at a rate per annum
for each Interest Period  equal  to  ten  percent of the amount of
interest payable in accordance with Section 2.05.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry out the Project, (except
Parts B (1) and B  (2)  thereof) with due diligence and efficiency
and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative, financial,
engineering and mining practices,  and  shall provide, promptly as
needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other  resources
required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Bank  and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower  shall  carry out the Implementation
Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, engineering and mining  practices under the supervision
of qualified  and  experienced  management  assisted  by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its facilities (including the Mine), machinery, equipment
and other property, and  from  time  to  time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary  repairs  and  renewals  thereof, all in accor-
dance: (a) with sound engineering, financial and mining practices;
and (b) with environmental and  safety standards acceptable to the
Bank.
Page  4
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
     Section 4.04.  The  Borrower  shall  at  all  times  take all
measures necessary to maintain  its  corporate existence, to carry
on its operations  and  to  acquire,  maintain  and renew all such
rights, powers, privileges, franchises  and  interests in land and
water as shall be necessary  or  useful  for its operations or the
carrying out of the Project.
     Section 4.05. Except in  the  normal  course of its business,
the Borrower shall not,  without  the Bank's consent, sell, lease,
transfer or otherwise dispose  of  any  of  its property or assets
required for the efficient conduct of its business or the carrying
out of the Project.
     Section 4.06. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall ensure that: (i)  at  the  end of fiscal year 1988,
the value of its  inventory  of  spare  parts  will not exceed the
value of spare parts  consumed  during  a  ten month period of the
previous fiscal year; (ii)  at  the  end  of fiscal year 1989, the
Borrower shall ensure that  the  value  of  its inventory of spare
parts will not exceed the value  of spare parts consumed during an
eight month period  of  the  previous  fiscal  year; and (iii) for
successive fiscal years, the Borrower  shall ensure that the value
of its inventory for  spare  parts  will  not  exceed the value of
spare parts consumed during  a  six  month  period of the previous
fiscal year.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain separate  records,  accounts and financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
               and expenses and related statements) for its Mining
               and Fertilizer Units;
         (ii)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  such  year,  (A)   certified  copies  of  its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
         (iv)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any  debt after December 31, 1987, unless
the net revenues of the  Borrower  for the fiscal year immediately
preceding the date of such  incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to  the  date  of such incurrence, whichever is
the greater, shall be  at  least  1.5  times the estimated maximum
debt service  requirements  of  the  Borrower  for  any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt of  the Borrower, including the debt to be
incurred.
     (b)  Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not incur any  debt  after  December  31, 1987, if after the
incurrence of such  debt  the  ratio  of  debt  to equity shall be
greater than 60 to 40.
     (c)  Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not enter  into  any  loan,  contract  or agreement or other
instrument providing  for  the  incurrence  of  debt  in an amount
greater than one  million  five  hundred thousand Jordanian Dinars
(JD 1,500,000).
     (d) For purposes of this Section and Section 5.05:
          (i)  The  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations adjusted to  take account of the
                    Borrower's prices in effect at the time of the
                    incurrence of debt  even  though they were not
                    in effect  during  the  twelve-month period to
                    which  such  revenues   relate  and  net  non-
                    operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including   administration,   adequate   main-
Page  6
                    tenance, taxes and payments  in lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The  term  "equity"  means  the  sum  of  the total
               unimpaired paid-up  capital,  retained earnings and
               reserves of  the  Borrower  not  allocated to cover
               specific liabilities.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall maintain,  for  each  of its fiscal years after
its fiscal year ending  on  December  31,  1987,  a ratio of total
working expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 0.8.
     (b)  Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower
shall, on the  basis  of  forecasts  prepared  by the Borrower and
satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  review  whether  it  would  meet the
requirements set forth in  paragraph  (a)  in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year,  and shall furnish to the Bank
the results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such  review  shows  that  the Borrower would not
meet  the  requirements  set  forth   in  paragraph  (a)  for  the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly  take  all  necessary  measures  in  order  to  meet such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "total   working   expenses"  means  all
               expenses   related    to    operations,   including
               administration, adequate  maintenance,  taxes other
               than income taxes (if any), but excluding interest,
               other charges on debt, and depreciation.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
     Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than June 30,
1988, prepare, as  part  of  its  financial planning procedures, a
five  year  financing  and  investment  plan  taking  into account
alternative financing  sources  and  associated  costs.  Such plan
shall include a study of the impact of such planned investments on
the Borrower's finances and,  if  necessary, recommend measures to
ensure a continued and improving trend in the Borrower's financial
performance.
Page  7
     (b)  The  Borrower  shall  update   the  said  financing  and
investment plan each fiscal year and  provide the Bank with a copy
of the plan  and  each  update  together  with  a  complete set of
financial projections for the  Bank's  review and comment at least
six (6) months before the commencement of each fiscal year.
     Section 5.05. The Borrower shall  take all action required to
effect, not later  than  December  31,  1988,  an  increase in its
capital stock in the amount necessary  to ensure that the value of
its equity is equal  to  or  greater than eighty million Jordanian
Dinars (JD 80,000,000).
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The Articles of  Association  or  the By-laws shall have
been amended,  suspended,  abrogated,  repealed  or  waived  as to
affect  materially  and  adversely  the  operations  or  financial
condition of the Borrower or its  ability to carry out the Project
or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     (b)  Any part of  the  principal  amount  of  any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have  become due and payable in advance
of maturity as  provided  in  the contractual instruments relative
thereto, or any  security  for  any  such  loan  shall have become
enforceable.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (b) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effectiveness; Termination
     Section  7.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that evidence  satisfactory  to  the  Bank shall have been
provided that the Borrower has  acquired  all such land and rights
in respect of land and water  as  are required for carrying out of
the Project, and that such land  and rights in respect of land and
water are available for purposes related to the Project.
     Section 7.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  8.01.  The  Managing  Director  of  the  Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
Page  8
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
     Jordan Phosphate Mines Co., Ltd.
     P. O. Box 30
     Amman
     The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               PHOSPHATE                         21223, 22475
               AMMAN                             FOSFAT JO
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                    JORDAN PHOSPHATE MINES CO., LTD.
                    By /s/ Mohamad Kamal
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment,                 26,800,000      100% of foreign
     vehicles and                               expenditures
     machinery for
     Parts A and
     B of the
     Project
(2)  Consultants'                  800,000      100% of foreign
     services,                                  expenditures
Page  9
     engineering
     services and
     training
(3)  Unallocated                 3,400,000
                                __________
     TOTAL                      31,000,000
2.   For  the  purposes  of   this  Schedule,  the  term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures  in  the  currency of any country
other than that of  the  Guarantor  for goods or services supplied
from  the  territory  of  any  country  other  than  that  of  the
Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) developing the phosphate resources  of the Mine; (b) improving
the technology and  increasing  the  output  and efficiency of its
phosphate production facilities; (c) modernizing pollution control
measures in the production,  handling  and transport of phosphate;
and (d) strengthening  the  organization and planning capabilities
of the Borrower.
     The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Production
(1)  Expanding  the  capacity  of  the  Borrower's  phosphate  ore
production through development of the Mine.
(2)  Expanding  the  capacity  of  the  Borrower's  phosphate rock
production  through   construction   of   a  beneficiation  plant,
consisting  of  a  vibrating  screening  plant,  a  truck  loading
terminal, and open storage facility.
(3)  Introducing measures  to  reduce  the  generation of airborne
phosphate dust at the Mine and at the Port of Aqaba.
Part B:   Infrastructure
(1)  Construction of a mine access road  from the Mine area to the
Ma'an-Saudi Arabia highway.
(2)  Installation of an electricity transmission line, electricity
substations, and internal power distribution facilities.
(3)  Supply of water from  production  wells to storage reservoir,
to the Mine and to the mine townsite.
(4)  Construction of  a  mine  townsite  with housing, recreation,
health and religious facilities.
Part C:   Consultants' Services and Training
(1)  Provision of consultants' services  to improve the Borrower's
operational and planning capabilities.
(2)  Provision of an in-service and fellowship training program to
upgrade the technical skills of the Borrower's work force.
(3)  Provision of consultants' services  to improve technology for
the future development of the Borrower's operations.
Page  10
                        *        *       *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning September 15, 1992
     through September 15, 2004                       1,190,000
On March 15, 2005                                     1,250,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.18
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
Page  11
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured in Jordan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for equipment, vehicles  and machinery estimated to
cost  the  equivalent  of  $350,000  each,  or  less,  and  in the
aggregate do  not  exceed  the  equivalent  of  $2,500,000, may be
awarded  in   accordance   with   limited   international  bidding
procedures on  the  basis  of  evaluation  and  comparison of bids
invited from a list of  at  least four qualified suppliers from at
least three different countries  eligible under the Guidelines and
in accordance with the procedures  set  forth in Sections I and II
of the Guidelines (excluding  paragraphs  2.8,  2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With  respect  to  each   contract   to  be  awarded  in
accordance with Part A and the first three contracts to be awarded
in accordance with Part  C  of  this  Schedule, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the  Bank pursuant to  said  paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
contracts not governed by the  preceding  paragraph are to be made
out of the Special Account,  such  procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with
the  other  information  required  to  be  furnished  to  the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph  3  shall  be  furnished to the Bank as
part of the evidence to  be  furnished  pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In  order  to  assist  the   Borrower  in  the  provision  of
engineering services for design and supervision of construction of
the  beneficiation  plant   and   for   supervision  of  equipment
installation and  in  carrying  out  Part  C  of  the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions  of  employment  shall be satisfactory to
the Bank. Such consultants  shall  be  selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank  as  Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
Page  12
                      Implementation Program
1.   The  Borrower  shall  establish  an  Internal  Audit  Unit by
June 30, 1988, with  such  responsibilities  and  powers as may be
necessary  to  ensure  that  each  of  the  Borrower's Departments
operates in compliance with  written  guidelines to be established
for each Department.
2.   The Borrower shall establish a  Planning Unit by December 31,
1988, consisting  of  duly  qualified  and  experienced  staff, to
provide technical planning for the  Mining and Fertilizer Units of
the Borrower and to provide overall corporate planning.
3.  The Borrower  shall  unify  the administration of personnel in
its Mining and Fertilizer Units by December 31, 1988.
4.  The Borrower  shall  integrate  its  accounting systems in its
Mining and  Fertilizer  Units  for  financial  and cost accounting
purposes by December 31, 1988.
5.  The Borrower shall  establish a specialized unit for financial
analysis in  its  Directorate  of  Finance  by  December 31, 1988,
consisting of duly qualified and experienced staff.
6.  The Borrower  shall  provide  to  the  Bank for its review and
comments, by December 31,  1988,  a plan for technical assistance,
including planned overseas visits  and  seminars, and shall ensure
that individuals with  qualifications  and experience satisfactory
to the Bank shall be  appointed on terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank commencing June 30, 1989.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized  Allocation"  means an amount equi-
valent to $2,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account  shall  be  made  exclusively  for eligible expen-
ditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Page  13
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
