Page  1
                                           LOAN NUMBER 2902 JO
                 (Shidiya Phosphate Mine Project)
                              between
                    HASHEMITE KINDGOM OF JORDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                Dated                        , 1988
                        GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1988, between HASHEMITE KINGDOM
OF   JORDAN   (the   Guarantor)   and   INTERNATIONAL   BANK   FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and the Jordan Phosphate Mines Co.,
Ltd. (the Borrower), having  been  satisfied as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project  described  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, have requested the Bank  to  assist in the financing of
the Project; and
     (B)  by the Loan Agreement of  even date herewith between the
Bank and the  Borrower,  the  Bank  has  agreed  to  extend to the
Borrower a loan  in  various  currencies  equivalent to thirty-one
million dollars ($31,000,000),  on  the  terms  and conditions set
forth in  the  Loan  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee  the  obligations  of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Guarantor, in  consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined   in   the   General   Conditions  and  in
Section 1.02 of the  Loan  Agreement  have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                             Guarantee
     Section 2.01. The  Guarantor  declares  its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this  end,  without  limitation or restriction
upon any of its  other  obligations under the Guarantee Agreement,
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as  primary  obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and  punctual  payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges  on,  the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the  Loan,  all as set forth in the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.02. (a) Without  limitation or restriction upon the
provisions  of  Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement,  the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, that if by December 31, 1988 the value of
the Borrower's equity  is  not  equal  to  or  greater than eighty
million Jordanian  Dinars  (JD  80,000,000),  the  Guarantor shall
promptly subscribe to a new issue of capital stock of the Borrower
in order to increase the Borrower's equity to such amount.
     (b)  For purposes of  this  Section,  the term "equity" means
the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings
and reserves  of  the  Borrower  not  allocated  to cover specific
liabilities.
     Section 2.03.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor shall:
     (a)  promptly take or cause  to  be  taken all such action as
shall be necessary to transfer to JPMC all such land and rights in
respect of land and water as shall be required for carrying out of
the Project;
     (b)  cause the Ministry  of  Public  Works  to carry out Part
B (1) of the Project by  December  31, 1988 with due diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial, and engineering practices; and
     (c)  cause Jordan Electricity Authority to (i) carry out Part
B (2) of the Project by  December  31, 1988 with due diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices,  and (ii) provide one-half of
the costs required therefor.
     Section 2.04. The Guarantor shall charge and collect from the
Borrower the guarantee fee referred to in Section 2.08 of the Loan
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
            Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
     Section 3.01. The Minister  of  Planning  of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the  Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 3.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  3
     For the Guarantor:
          Minister of Planning
          P.O. Box 555
          Amman
          Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               Ministry of Planning            21319 JO
               Amman
     For the Bank
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                     HASHEMITE KINDGOM OF JORDAN
                     By /s/ Mohamad Kamal
                                         Authorized Representative
                     INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                     By /s/ A. Stoutjesdijk
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
