Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 19610-SE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.7 MILLION
(US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FORA
QUALITY EDUCATION FOR ALL PROGRAM
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
TEN-YEAR EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM (PDEF)
MARCH 20, 2000
Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of February 10, 2000)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CFAF 650= US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 650
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       African Development Bank                         EFI       'Ecole de Formation des Instituteurs
A4:FD    fAgence Fran:aise de Developpement                ENS       Ecole Normale Superieure
AGETIP   Agence d'Execution des Travaux dInteret Public    FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
gCIDA     Canadian International Development Agency         FDS       Fonds de Developpement Scolaire
CMA       Construction Management Agency                   HiPC      Highly Indebted Poor Countries
CNCS      Comite National de Coordination et du Suiv       IA iI spection.dA.cademie
CONSEF  Conseil Supmrieur de I'Education et de la         .DB        Islarnic Development Bank
Formation
'CPAR     Country Procurement Assessment Review          'EC         'Information, Education, Communicailon
-CREA    iCenire de Recherche en Economie Apoliqude        .IDEN>    Inspeciion Departementale de lI'Education Nationale
CTR       Coordinateur Technique Reigional                 INEADE   Inst  National d'Etudes et d'Action pour le
Developpement de l'Educalion
CUR      ACentre Universitaire Regional                    LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative
iDAEB    gDirection de l'4lphabitisation et de lI'Education de  -MCC  Management and Coordination Committee
Base
DAGE    Direction de lAdministration Generale et de        MEN        Ministere de I'Educatiion Vaionale
'IEquipement
DCES      Direction des Constructions et Equipements       NGO       Non-Governmental Organization .
Scolaires
DDJ n     Direction de la Dette et de lInvestissemeni      PA        Project Account
iDEMSG  -Direction de l'Enseignement Moyen et Secondaire    P.DDE    Plan Departemental de Developpement de i'Education
-General
DEPEE   -Direction de 1'Education Prescolaire et de        PDEF      Programme Decennal de I'Education et de la
l'Enseignement Eldmentaire                                 Formation
DES      'Direction de I'EnseignementSuperieur             POBA      Plan d'Opiration et Budget Annuel'
DET       Direction de .'Enseignement Technique        W. FRDE       Plan RPg_ional de Dbeeloppemeni de PEducation
SDFP      Direction de ia Formation Professionnelle        QEFA    .uaiiy Education For Al.I
SDRH      Direction des Ressources Humaines                SA        .Special Account
DPRE      Direction de la Planification et de laReforme de  SNE      .Special Needs Education
I Education
ECD       Early Childhoo d Development                     UPE        Universal Primary Education
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:      Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:       Nicholas R. Burnett
Task Team Leader:        Robert S. Prouty



SENEGAL
QUALITY EDUCATION FOR ALL PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                               Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     4
3. Key performance indicators                                                        4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                8
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 8
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    10
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    12
D. Project Rationale
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        17
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       18
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                          18
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         20
2. Financial                                                                        22
3. Technical                                                                        22
4. Institutional                                                                    23
5. Environmental                                                                    28
6. Social                                                                           28
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   30
2. Critical risks                                                                   30



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     31
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            32
2. Other                                                                              32
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          33
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         33
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          34
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         61
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           62
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    84
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       85
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     98
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   99
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 102
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           104
Annex 11: Financial Management Arrangements                                             106
Annex 12: Primary School Construction Arrangements                                      112
Annex 13: Triggers for Phases 2 and 3 of the Adaptable Program Loan                     125
Annex 14: Letter of Sector Policy                                                       132
MAP(S)
IBRD 25934



SENEGAL
Quality Education For All Program
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: March 20, 2000                               Team Leader: Robert S. Prouty
Country Manager/Director: Mahmood A. Ayub          Sector Manager/Director: Nicholas R. Burnett
Project ID: P047319                                Sector(s): EE - Education Adjustment
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): EDUCATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
[Proam Ffiancing Data.
'E,imaftd
APL             Indicativ  FinancingPlan    . -     me e:               :-Ped    Borrower
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~ ~ ~ - _ _ _ _   -   .  -    F Y ):
IDA             Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m         Date        Date
APLI1       50.00      5.4   876.00      926.00    06/01/2000   06/30/2003 Government of Senegal
Loan/
Credit,
APL2         85.00     7.5  1053.00     1138.00    07/01/2003   06/30/2007 Government of Senegal
Loan/
Credit                    __
AP-l3        75.00     5.5  1290.00     1365.00    07/01/2007   06/30/2010 Goverment of Senegal
Loan/
Credit __  _ _
APL 4
Loan!
Credit __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Total       210.00   ____13219.00       3429.00                 
Project Financing Data
C Loan         [Z Credit        O Grant         El Guarantee    D Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 50.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard                               Service charge: 0.75%
financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foign           Total
Government                                                    670.14          117.86         788.00
IBRD
IDA                                                            30.40           19.60          50.00
AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPMENT                                 4.80            7.20          12.00
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                         6.69          10.03          16.72
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                        8.12          12.18          20.30
FONDS D'AIDE ET DE COOPERATION                                   0.72           1.08           1.80
ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK                                         4.28           6.42          10.70



NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                        2.74           4.11          6.85
OPEC FUND                                                      1.56           2.34          3.90
OTHER                                                          6.29           9.44          15.73
Total:                                                       735.74         190.26        926.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Address: 2 Rue Calmette, B.P. 4025, Dakar, Senegal
Contact Person: Pape Momar Sow
Tel: (221) 821 1376                Fax: (221) 821-13-76              Email: mendpre(sentoo.sn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual     0.7           9.3        15.5        16.5         8.0|
Cumulative     0.7         10025.5                 42.0        50.0|
Project implementation period:
Expected effectiveness date: 06/15/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2003
OcAPL PAD Fo.- 2 -
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
Background and Introduction. The last four years have witnessed a remarkable turnaround in the
implementation of economic reforms in Senegal, reversing two decades of poor economic management and
lackluster growth performance. The impact of the policy reforms adopted since early 1994 is already
evident in terms of reduced fiscal and balance of payments deficits, a return of inflation to pre-devaluation
levels, and an average growth rate of 5 percent during the past five years. Senegal's social and economic
indicators - poor by the standards of countries with comparable levels of income- have started to improve,
reflecting the increased attention and resources the Government is allocating to social development. In
addition, the current increase in foreign investment offers a window of opportunity.
In spite of these favorable circumstances, Senegal remains one of the poorest countries in the world
(estimated per capita GNP for 1998 was US$550), and long-term economic growth is threatened by the low
level of education and skills. This is recognized in Senegal, and the government is giving priority to the
development of education. Progress is being achieved in terms of enrollment in primary education,
education of girls and women, and reforms in higher education. However, the gains are fragile and the
sector has been prone to strikes and disruption. Recent modest advances in primary enrollment ratios were
achieved through recruitment of contractual volunteer teachers, who now comprise about 25 percent of the
teaching force. Higher education reforms implemented in 1995 to economize on student support services
and scholarship budgets were partially reversed after a strike by teachers and students during 1997. The
Government's strategy for education is to address the above issues, to encourage the involvement of the
private sector and NGOs, and to shift decision-making closer to the school level.
In 1998 the Government translated its broad goals into a ten-year framework (Programme Decennal de
l'Education et de la Formation--PDEF), which sets forth objectives, activities and resource requirements
for the sector. This program was prepared by the Government in collaboration with donors, civil society
and agencies/institutions in the education sector. During the appraisal of the program in October 1999,
Government and donors agreed to commit future funds for the education sector within the context of the
PDEF.
The proposed program will cover a ten-year period with the goal of moving Senegal's gross primary
enrollment from 65% in 1998-99 to 100% in 2008-09, while improving learning levels. Over this period,
Senegal's education system will be decentralized. The first three-year phase from 2000-2003 will be
organized thematically: (i) to improve quality, (ii) to expand access, and (iii) to decentralize financial and
budgetary management. Girls' education issues will be integrated across the range of program
interventions. This will be a period to test and reach consensus on reforms dealing with decentralization,
privatization of textbook functions, introduction of national languages in the lower levels of schooling,
implementation of a school reading strategy, Early Childhood Development, and school health programs.
The second phase (2003-2007) will take the various initiatives to scale and help the system move to full
enrollment in Grades 1-4. This phase will be managed at the Inspection dA'cademie (IA) (regional) level
with significant Inspection Departementale de l'Education Nationale (IDEN) involvement. The third
phase (2007-2010) will consolidate the gains of the first two periods and further strengthen local financial
and administrative management capacity, while preparing the way for universal middle schooling. The
third phase will be managed at the IDEN level (departmental) with LI support. Cost figures given are for
the first phase only, unless otherwise specified.
- 3 -



2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Quality Education For All (QEFA) Program represents the World Bank's support for the PDEF. Its
objective is to ensure that the framework for quality universal basic education is in place, that it is effective
and ready for national implementation. The program places an emphasis on changes in teaching and
reading linked to student learning outcomes. It deals with all levels of the education system, from
pre-school to university, as well as adult literacy, and seeks to put in place sustainable approaches to
improving quality and ensuring sufficient numbers of teachers and classrooms.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Program outcome indicators agreed with the Ministry of Education to be achieved between 2000-01 and
2002-03 include the following:
Access
(i) Percentage of Ministere de l'Education Nationale (MEN) operating budget going to primary
schooling to increase from 40% to 44%, with an increased amount for per student expenditures for
quality improvement.
(ii) Primary school gross enrollment to reach 75% by 2002-03 school year from 65% in 1998/1999
with Grade One admission rate to increase from 68% to 80%; the percentage of girls will increase from
44% to 46% of overall enrollments.
(iii) Implementation of a model that will allow the enrollment of 1% of 3- to 5-year-old children in
Early Childhood Development (ECD) centers.
(iv) Provision of literacy sessions to 120,000 individuals aged 15 through 49, of whom 75% are
female.
Quality
(v) At least 2% annual increase in national student achievement scores compared to existing baseline
in French and math for Grade 4.
(vi) Reaching a textbook ratio of three books per primary and middle school student.
(vii) Grade repetition reduced to a maximum of ten percent annually.
(viii) The Vocational Training Fund will disburse at least $150,000 annually.
Decentralized management
(ix) Implementing a minimum norm of 20 teaching hours per teacher per week at middle and
secondary school.
(x) The percentage of children enrolled in schools offering a full six-grade cycle increases from 64% to
80%.
(xi) Reduction by 25% in the number of classes outside the minimum and maximum class size norms.
These indicators were selected based on the availability of relevant data to promote a common approach
among donors (including Government). The internal efficiency targets are ambitious given current
conditions in Senegal. However, many of the reasons for low internal efficiency, such as incomplete
schools, poor physical facilities, inadequate teacher support, and limited community involvement in
management of schools, can be improved rapidly by the proposed program interventions. These in turn will
help change the attitudes of teachers and parents with respect to repetition and drop-out.
-4 -



Program Performance Monitoring will be carried out using a Program Management Reporting (PMR)
system to be introduced during the first 12 months of program implementation. This system will link
expenditures, outputs, and schedule of implementation, including procurement, for each component at
quarterly intervals.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 17269-SE                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 01/29/98
The Country Assistance Strategy sets the goals of poverty reduction and economic development, and calls
for greater attention to primary education and to the education of girls and women as a means to reach this
goal. It also calls for the "active involvement of the private sector and NGOs in education". As a
contribution to reaching the CAS goal of "capacity building and developing human resources," the
proposed program will support the expansion of basic education services while improving quality.
The program will increase access to learning for Senegalese children, including those from the most
vulnerable groups and under-served regions. It will also enhance productivity, income and capacity in later
life by providing the basis for further education and training. Bringing education closer to parents and the
conmuunity means that management skills of local education officials and communities will be upgraded,
and that accountability and relevance will be enhanced. By raising educational levels of children and
families, the program will improve their quality of life and help decrease child morbidity, child mortality,
and fertility rates.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Senegal is seeking to move beyond the period of massive disruption in regular school activities. The
Government aims to energize communities by helping them to organize and coordinate their efforts in
establishing schools and improving education services. In this changing environment, the Government will
need to address the following major issues of the sector:
(a) The gross enrollment rate (GER) for primary school increased from 54 % to 65% over the past five
years; and for middle and secondary school from 15% to 21%. About I million children are enrolled in
primary education (grades 1-6), 175,000 in secondary education (grade 10-12), and about 30,000 students
in tertiary education institutions. The gross primary education enrollment rate in Dakar is about 91.5%
while the average for the other provinces is 55.4%. The following issues are related to equitable access:
(i) There is an inadequate number of school places and they are poorly distributed. This prevents
many children from entering into the school system; about 36% of children are enrolled in "incomplete
schools" offering five grades or less.
(ii) Government is shifting from a centrally-managed teaching force to one that is locally managed.
Lower salaries will permit more rapid expansion, but may increase instability. Teacher training
programs for EFI graduates and contractual teachers will need to be harmonized. Average
pupil-teacher ratios are high--49: 1 in primary school.
(iii) Girls are less likely to attend and finish school than boys. In 1997, girls accounted for about 44%
of pupils enrolled in primary schools and 25% in secondary.
- 5 -



(iv) Only 10% of poor rural populations can read and write.
(v) Students with special needs and learning disabilities are largely left out of the system. Gifted
children also require special attention.
(vi) Private provision of schooling is underdeveloped, with no consistent government strategy for
financial and pedagogic support.
(b) Low levels of learning continue to constrain the efficiency of the system and limit the number of
well-qualified students graduating from each level. Only about 30% and 50% of students pass the grade 6
and grade 9 examinations, respectively. Internal efficiency remains low, as demonstrated by high repetition
and dropout rates and low completion rates. The number of learning hours per pupil per year has
decreased by about 21% (from 980 to 675 hours) in many primary schools in recent years because of the
way double shifts are implemented. Key issues are as follows:
(i) expenditures are heavily skewed to higher levels of the system, leaving primary education receiving
only 40% of public education resources;
(ii) the unit cost of teachers is unsustainably high, thereby crowding out expenditures for inputs such
as books, learning materials, teacher supervision and in-service training;
(iii) a lack of effective management and accountability systems;
(iv) backtracking on higher education reforms;
(v) weak research capacity.
(c) The centrally-managed system is not capable of efficiently delivering education to the whole country.
The Government is therefore decentralizing functions and has made capacity building in strategic planning
and management at all levels a national priority. There are four main issues related to the Ministry's
institutional capacity:
(i) MEN's organizational structure and management system are weak. The central Ministry of
Education units, regional and decentralized authorities, schools and communities are not yet ready to
fully assume new responsibilities; roles and responsibilities are not clearly defined;
(ii) Capacity for information management and planning is still centralized and little expertise has been
developed in the regions and collectivities. Decentralized collectivities and individual schools lack the
capacity to efficiently collect and use data;
(iii) MEN does not have an adequate system of monitoring and evaluation to track the progress of its
massive effort to improve education;
(iv) The system of financial management needs to be upgraded. Staff at all levels need training in
program budgeting, accounting, computerized information systems, and procurement. A training
program must be prepared for staff who will be deployed to carry out administrative and financial
functions in the regions.
-6 -



Government Strategy
Government's objectives and strategies for dealing with these issues are set out in four source documents:
(a) the orientation plan 1996-200 1; (b) the 10-Year Education and Training Policy Document 1999-2009;
(b) the 1999-2009 Master Plan for Investments; (c) the 1997 Review of Public Expenditures; and (d) the
series of Regional and Departmental Master Plans for Education. A bibliography of documents is provided
in Annex 8. Essentially, these documents set the objective of universal primary enrollment by 2008 and
progressive increases in access to middle and secondary schooling, significant improvements in the amount
of learning that occurs at all levels of the system including higher education, increased adult literacy, and
development of a more market-relevant vocational training program.
The strategies proposed for achieving these objectives include:
(a) greatly reducing unit costs of teachers by:
(i) moving to a contract-based hiring system at all levels;
(ii) increasing the number of hours of teaching per week at the middle school, secondary and higher
education levels, and the number of effective teaching hours per year at all levels.
(iii) training teachers at the middle school level to be able to teach two major disciplinary areas;
(iv) reducing the numbers of substitute teachers;
(v) redeploying non-teaching staff to the classroom.
(b) shifting public financing to primary education, while increasing cost recovery at higher levels of the
system and providing incentives for more private sector involvement.
(c) creating a ten-year basic education cycle.
(d) strengthening partnerships with NGOs, private sector and communities.
(e) decentralizing management and pedagogic support.
(f) basic education programs for out-of-school adolescents (aged 9 to 15) and adults.
(g) improving quality and increasing students' throughput by: (i) a focus on the teaching of reading; (ii) use
of national languages as the transition to French; (iii) support for school improvement plans; (iv) a
textbook and reading materials' loan program; and (v) individualized education plans and after-shool
programs for students with failing grades.
-7 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This Program addresses issues of access, quality and management. Government has already made many
strategic choices linked to these issues, and will need to make additional choices in the coming months and
years: (i) local management and recruitment of contract teachers vs. central management within the civil
service. Government has already reached agreement with the teachers' unions on a locally managed
approach. This option will almost certainly aggravate the risk of teacher strikes and continuing instability;
(ii) textbook sales vs. textbook rental vs. free distribution system. Government has decided to drop the
current subsidized sales system, which has not proven effective, and to adopt a system whereby books will
be free at the primary school level, and rented to students at the secondary level; (iii) in-house vs. delegated
responsibility for managing classroom construction. Construction is currently managed by the Direction
des Constructions et Equipements Scolaires (DCES), but with difficulty. Government has already decided
to delegate construction oversight to Agence d'Ex&cution des Travaux d'Interet Public (AGETIP) and/or
other private sector entities, and to create an AGETIP-like construction agency within the MEN in the
coming years; (iv) status quo vs. cost recovery at secondary and higher education. This is politically
sensitive--the ongoing Higher Education Project has resulted in only modest reforms to date. Government
intends to accelerate this process but will need extensive discussions with teachers unions and students; (v)
use of French vs. use of national languages in the lower levels of primary schooling; (vi) transfer of
responsibilities to local collectivities vs. transfer of management from MEN central offices to L4 and IDEN.
Many decisions will be required to complete this process. Functional management information systems and
capacity-building will need to be developed to ensure the ability at the local level to plan, budget and
implement activities such as construction, maintenance and teacher management. In the context of the
QEFA, government, donors and communities have agreed on a program, performance indicators and a
process to monitor these indicators.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The Program approaches Education For All from three complementary perspectives: (i) helping the system
build more schools and hire more teachers, (ii) improving quality in such a way that student learning
increases, and (iii) improving overall system management, in part through decentralizing most
responsibility and authority for service delivery. The first phase of the Program is designed to put the
framework for this approach solidly into place. There are 3 performance triggers for each of the follow-up
loans linked to these 3 components. For the second phase,which is to be largely managed at the regional
level, these are as follows: (i) access: agreement between MEN and local government officials regarding
the details of the school mapping exercise, (ii) quality: evaluation of the various pilot testing initiatives
conducted during Phase 1, and (iii) management: existence of capacity to manage the education system at
the regional level. For the third phase, which is to be largely managed at the departmental level, the
triggers are as follows: (i) access: agreement between MEN and local government officials regarding
procedures to eliminate disparities in access among regions, departments, towns, urban and rural settings,
and boys and girls, (ii) quality: evaluation of initiatives taken to scale during the second phase and related
decisions taken for preparing the third phase, and (iii) management: existence of capacity to manage the
education system at the departmental level, including the preparation and approval of a sustainable action
plan and budget for each IDEN. These triggers are presented in detail, along with evaluation criteria, in
Annex 13.
-8 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative             Bank-       % of
Component                  WSeco             s       % of    financing   Bank-
____________  (US$ )    Total           (US$10L  financing
1. Increasing access to education                     637.00       68.8     29.60       59.2
2. Improving the quality of education                 243.00       26.2      12.75      25.5
3. Strengthening capacity for                          45.35        4.9       7.00      14.0
decentralized management
4. PPF                                                  0.65        0.1       0.65       1.3
Total Project Costs                   926.00      100.0     50.00      100.0
Total Financing Required                   926.00       100.0     50.00      100.0
The components of the entire QEFA program, funded by the Government and donors, are described
below. Sub-components that IDA will fund are noted in the summary cost table.
(a) To increase access and improve equity in the distribution of school places, the QEFA will
support the following sub-components:
1. Basic education-Access.
(i) Construction of early childhood development centers.
(ii) Construction of primary school classrooms.
(iii) Retrofitting of primary schools with latrines and wells, rehabilitation, and maintenance.
(iv) Development of neighborhood middle schools.
(v) Multigrade teaching strategies.
(vi) Special needs education (SNE).
2. Secondary General, Technical and Professional-Access.
(i) Construction and rehabilitation of classrooms, and development of small-scale rural secondary
schools.
(ii) Technical and vocational training.
3. Higher Education-Access.
(i) Creation of a network of community colleges (Centre Universitaire Regional -- CUR)
(ii) Greater support for private provision of higher education.
(b) To improve the quality of education, the QEFA will support:
1. Basic Education-Quality.
(i) Early childhood development.
-9-



(ii) A school-based small grants program for primary and lower secondary school improvement and
staff development.
(iii) Dakar peri-urban initiatives.
(iv) School/family reading initiatives.
(v) Introduction of national languages for initial literacy training and transition to French.
(vi) Development of a school-level textbook and reading materials loan program.
(vii) Increased student learning capacity through a school-based health and nutrition program.
(viii)Providing special needs education.
(ix) Special initiatives targeting repetition and dropout.
(x) Adult basic education.
(xi) Assessment of students' learning.
(xii) Development of a unified teacher training strategy.
2. Secondary General, Technical and Professional-Quality.
(i) Textbooks.
(ii) Science education and technology development.
(iii) Vocational training support fund.
3. Higher Education-Quality.
(i) Development of a contract-based relationship between the MEN and the university-level Faculties
and Institutes.
(c) To strengthen the capacity for decentralized management QEFA will support:
(i) Personnel management.
(ii) Decentralized planning.
(iii) Community Participation.
(iv) Policy, monitoring and program evaluation.
(v) Management of financial flows and physical investment.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Access to education
(a) To ensure the availability of sufficient numbers of new teachers:
(i) financing of new primary teachers will be on a contract rather than civil service basis;
(ii) all new primary teachers will first serve as volunteer teachers;
(iii) a contract teacher career path will provide stability, benefits and promotion criteria, along with the
possibility of merit-based entry into the civil service;
(iv) teachers will receive an annual packet of minimum supplementary materials.
(b) The Government will test a package of measures to bring gender-sensitivity into the mainstream and
to increase the participation and achievement of girls in the education system;
- 1 0 -



(c) The management of classroom construction will be contracted out to specialized agencies (AGETIP,
NGOs, the future construction agency to be developed in the MEN);
(d) A low-cost school construction, rehabilitation and maintenance strategy will be introduced to permit
construction of durable schools and extend the life of education assets.
Quality of education
MEN will pursue:
(a) With regards to textbooks:
(i) support for development of local publishers;
(ii) privatization of textbook publishing and distribution;
(iii) introduction of universal access to textbooks, with books free of charge for basic education;
(iv) a shift from single to multiple titles for each subject area, with decentralized choice;
(b) Lengthening of the school year to match international norms;
(c) Decrease in number of secondary school courses offered in order to improve quality and focus, and to
reduce teacher costs;
(d) National languages will be tested as a medium of instruction in lower primary and will serve as a
transition to French;
(e ) Govermment will provide school inputs such as training for educational personnel for schools built
and operated by communities and, as much as possible, for the private sector.
Strengthening of decentralized management
(a) A new decentralized structure for the management of education will be adopted to increase the
involvement of local collectivities, regions, beneficiaries and schools in the management of the
system-these partners will take significant responsibility for managing elementary schools; secondary
and higher education institutions will become increasingly autonomous and responsible for results;
(b) The Departmental Education Plans and the Regional Education Plans will be implemented on a
contract basis committing both the MEN and the local collectivities;
(c) A financial management system will be developed to support the process of decentralization;
(d) A contracting basis for school construction will be introduced between the MEN, the local collectivities
and a specialized Contract Management Agency (CMA);
(e) Donor procedures for monitoring, financial management and auditing will be harmonized;
(f) Greater cost recovery will be introduced for secondary and higher education.
- 1 1 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Basic education provides a high rate of return on investments, particularly for girls, and can contribute
to rapid and sustainable economic growth, poverty reduction and increases in productivity and equity.
Estimates for Senegal show private rates of return of 14% for primary education, 97% for secondary
education, and 134% for higher education. In addition, there are a number of substantial externalities,
including greater use of health care facilities--particularly for girls, better nutrition and child care, and
lower fertility rates. The various target populations are as follows: pre-school children age five and
under, school-aged children, young illiterate adolescents and women between 15 and 49 years of age,
the urban and rural poor, teachers, school directors, unemployed high school graduates. The
components and activities supported by the program will also be directed to staff and managers of the
MEN at the central, regional and local levels; and to schools and decentralized collectivities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Ten-Year Education and Training Program (PDEF) will be implemented from 2000 to 2010 within an
institutional context transformed by the recent decentralization law. The PDEF will be organized in three
phases, using an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). For the first phase of the PDEF, the institutional
framework revolves around the MEN, which will hold primary responsibility for program implementation
and general coordination of partners. Local governments will be responsible for the application of public
funds transferred by the Government, as well as matching funds provided by MEN for maintenance. The
local governments will delegate to contract management agencies the authority for school construction
vested in them by the Law of 1996. Many services in addition to school construction and rehabilitation will
be subcontracted to the private sector and NGOs. The small grants component will help primary, middle
and secondary schools develop greater financial management and administrative capacity. For the adult
literacy component that will be the follow-up to the Programme Alphabetisation Priorite Femmes (PAPF)
project, the Government has decided to continue using AGETIP as the implementing agency.
Steering committees. The High Council for Education and Training (Conseil superieur de l 'education et
de laformation -- CONSEF) will supervise implementation of the PDEF and, during the first phase, the
QEFA program. CONSEF will be chaired by the Minister of Education or, if the Minister so instructs, by
the Minister Delegate for Basic Education, and will include MEN directors, the regional inspectors (IA), the
departmental inspectors (IDEN), officers of autonomous institutions such as Institut National d'Etudes et
d'Action pour le Dejveloppement de l'Education (INEADE) and the universities, and representatives from
the Offices of the President and the Prime Minister. There will also be representatives from other
ministries, from local collectivities, the private sector, the main NGOs, AGETIP and civil society, e.g.
unions and employer representatives, as well as the Federation of Parents' Associations. The CONSEF will
meet twice yearly and will invite all development partners to participate in approving annual operating
plans and budgets (POBA) for the coming year. Under the authority of the CONSEF to which it will report,
the National Coordinating and Monitoring Committee (Comite National pour la Coordination et le Suivi
-- CNCS) will provide impetus and leadership to the QEFA program and will coordinate and monitor the
program.
General coordination of the PDEF program. This will fall to CNCS, which will have the following
responsibilities: (a) coordinate the actions of public and private partners at both the central and
decentralized levels; (b) assist component managers in implementation; (c) coordinate the preparation of
annual operating plans and budgets; (d) ensure that the operating plans and budgets are implemented in
accordance with commitments made to development partners (specifically credit agreements) and monitor
their implementation based on predetermined performance indicators; and (e) prepare and submit to
- 12 -



partners and decision-making bodies progress reports on the program, ensure that timely audit reports are
produced and that their recommendations are taken into account, prepare CONSEF sessions and ensure that
the operating plans and budgets for the coming year are drafted for the annual CONSEF session to which
development partners are invited. The CNCS will be composed of officials from the five line directorates
(Direction de l'Alphabegtisation et de l'Education de Base -- DAEB, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire
et de l'Enseignement Elementaire -- DEPEE; Direction de l'Enseignement Moyen et Secondaire General
-- DEMSG; Direction de l'Enseignement Technique -- DET; Direction de l'Enseignement Sup&rieur --
DES), the three lateral directorates (Direction de la Planification et de la Reforme de l'Education --
DPRE; Direction de l'Administration Generale et de l'Equipement -- DAGE; Direction des Constructions
et Equipements Scolaiares -- DCES), INEADE and, on a rotating basis, two lAs and two IDENs. It will
meet at least twice monthly and will be chaired by the Director of the DPRE or his designated
representative.
At the regional and departmental levels, MEN plans to create Regional Coordinating and Monitoring
Committees (Comite Regional pour la Coordination et le Suivi -- CRCS) and Departmental Coordinating
and Monitoring Committees (Comite Departemental pour la Coordination et le Suivi -- CDCS), chaired
respectively by the President of the Regional Council and the Mayor (or the President of the Rural
Community). These local bodies charged with coordinating the QEFA program will comprise various
stakeholders (MEN, local collectivities, civil society and parents).
Responsibility for implementing the components. Responsibility for implementing each of the
components of the QEFA program falls to the relevant MEN directorate. Each directorate is accountable
for component results, as measured by performance indicators defined in the Manual of Procedures. Given
the objectives of universal primary enrollment and of all the reforms planned to ensure quality, the
Directorate of Preschool and Elementary Education (DEPEE) will play a key role in the success of the
QEFA program. At the same time, given the sector approach adopted by MEN, lateral directorates such as
DAGE, DPRE and DCES will play a new and critical role. Lastly, as a result of decentralization, the IA
and the IDEN, as well as local governments, will play a central role in implementing the program.
Assuring the quality of the PDEF and the QEFA program. The DEPEE plays a central role in defining
and monitoring performance norms and factors for the quality sub-components, particularly those that
pertain to learning. Assessment of learning is an essential sub-component that makes it possible to measure
student achievement attributable to program implementation (particularly the testing of basic education
curriculum, the introduction of a school-based reading strategy, national languages and strategies to lower
repetition and dropout rates). The purpose of efforts to assess learning is to improve the internal efficiency
of each school. In collaboration with INEADE, ENS (Ecole normale superieure) and the sub-component
technical team, the DEPEE will set up a monitoring and evaluation mechanism that relies on the direct
involvement of the schools, the departments and the regions. The DEPEE is responsible for training,
supervision, and consistency of procedures. The strategy will be to empower teachers and the IDENs,
through training, to carry out evaluations in classrooms, schools and districts and to develop their own
evaluation tools. This strategy will produce local expertise, and data bases at the departmental and school
district levels that will feed into a national data bank.
Role of the DPRE. The Directorate of Educational Planning and Reform (DPRE) plays a central role in
the QEFA program. It will: (a) serve as the CNCS secretariat, including coordination of development
partners; (b) define school mapping norms and negotiate these norms with local governments; (c) organize
bottom-up, contract-based planning of the PDDEs and PRDEs; (d) set up and operate the information
system to be developed during the QEFA program; and (e) coordinate development partners.
- 13 -



Bottom-up, contract-based planning of the PDDEs and PRDEs. Allocation of resources for educational
development will be governed by the 41 Departmental Educational Development Plans (PDDEs). These
will be prepared within the CDCS framework and jointly signed by the IDEN, the mayor of the
municipality or municipalities and the presidents of the rural communities within the department. Their
signatures will signify the "contractualized" adherence of partners to the Departmental Educational
Development Plans. Before they are submitted for signature, the PDDEs will be arbitrated at the regional
level and consolidated into ten Regional Educational Development Plans (PRDEs). This arbitration will be
based on criteria reflecting, on the one hand, national priorities and, on the other, regional and local
priorities. All the criteria will be designed in such a way as to place special emphasis on reducing
inequities and disparities (geographic, economic, rural/urban, gender-based). Each PRDE will be signed by
the president of the Regional Council and the IA. The ten PRDEs will be consolidated to form, in
conjunction with central directorate development plans, the QEFA program. The PDDEs and PRDEs will
include detailed school construction plans; they will guide the preparation of annual operating plans and
budgets and will also assist local collectivities in preparing their annual budgets. Preparation of the
PDDEs and PRDEs for the period 2000-2002 was begun during the PDEF preparatory phase. Successful
preparation of the PDDEs and PRDEs for the period 2003-2007 will be one of the triggers for the second
IDA credit through the APL.
Coordination of development partners. The DPRE, in collaboration with the DEPEE. will be
responsible for partner coordination. The French Ministry of Cooperation will handle internal coordination
among partners, through the mechanism of regular meetings and information sharing. The partners have
made a commitment to strengthen the coordination already initiated under the PDRH2 project and to
harmonize their procedures for supporting the QEFA program as much as possible. They have already
agreed to the following points: (a) carry out joint supervision missions; (b) annual and midterm reviews
will be organized in collaborative fashion by MEN, IDA and other key donors, particularly ADB, CIDA,
FAC, AFD, the Nordic Development Fund and KfW; (c) use of a single Manual of General Procedures for
the QEFA program that describes common procedures; (d) preparation of joint manuals for specific
components; (e) adherence to standard classroom designs and equipment norms defined by MEN; (f)
adoption of similar institutional arrangements for the school construction program (IDA, AFD).
Financial management, information management and audit - role of theDAGE. Under the QEFA
program, the function of the MEN Directorate of General Administration and Equipment (DAGE) is being
significantly altered and expanded to allow MEN to monitor the resources and expenditures of the entire
education sector. The existing coordinating units for the PDRH and PAES projects will be dissolved and
their staff will be absorbed by DAGE and DPRE based on their skills. The computerized financial
management system instituted at QEFA start-up will be refined to reflect the new methods of programming
that the annual operating plans and budgets (POBA) represent; it will be integrated into the general
information system covering the entire educational system; and it will support gradual decentralization of
financial management, beginning with pilot regions. The financial management system will be gradually
decentralized. During the first phase, the goal will be to reinforce the decentralized management capacity
of lAs. During the second phase of the APL, IDEN capacity will be reinforced. During the first phase,
financial management of the literacy component will be handled by AGETIP as for Credit 2873-SE (PAPF
). The DAGE will manage this component in the second phase of the APL.
General responsibilities of theDAGE: (a) perform education sector budget planning for presentation to
the Ministry of the Economy, Finance and Planning (MEFP) and development partners; (b) in collaboration
with the DPRE, coordinate the preparation of budgets associated with the annual operating plans (POBA),
regardless of the source of financing, the nature of the expenditures (investment or recurrent costs) and the
body charged with implementing the expenditures, i.e. including funds earmarked for autonomous
- 14 -



institutions such as universities and local collectivities; (c) ensure the initial deposit of funds and monthly
replenishments by the DDI from the IDA special account, of the central advance account held by the DAGE
and of the regional advance accounts held by the L; (d) ensure the functioning of similar mechanisms for
special accounts of other donors; (e) ensure the initial deposit and annual replenishment of Project
Accounts from the BCI for financing national counterpart funds for donor-financed projects, including
IDA; (f) execute expenditures from the central advance account; (g) oversee expenditures made on the
authority of MEN (advance accounts) by the LI and other MEN structures from their own advance
accounts; (h) monitor the execution of the investment and operating budgets (with the exception of funds
allocated through advance accounts) at the decentralized level, and the execution of expenditures by the
DDI from foreign investment credits; (i) monitor expenditures of autonomous institutions such as the
universities, the local governments, and the donors; (j) assure the reimbursement of advance accounts from
the IDA Special Account held by the Directorate of Debt and Investment (DDJ) and other special accounts;
(k) oversee AGETIP management of the second special account for literacy subprojects; (1) maintain and
consolidate all QEFA program accounts, including the IDA Special Accounts for all the components, as
well as the special accounts of other donors; (m) ensure that all partners adhere to the Manual of
Accounting and Financial Procedures; (n) ensure that timely audits are submitted, three months prior to
annual reviews; and (o) prepare a quarterly Program Management Report (PMR); and (p) prepare the
overall financial report for the QEFA Program (including expenditures of all donors, by component and
category), verify its consistency with the initial financial framework for the PDEF, identify gaps and
proposed remedies.
DAGE responsibility for decentralization. By the end of the QEFA program, the following objectives
should be achieved: (a) there will be adequate financial management capacities in place at the LAs/IDENs
and schools); (b) the Manual of Procedures will define financial flows, accounting responsibilities and
mechanisms for circulating financial information among the DAGE, the MAs and lower levels (IDENs,
schools, etc.); (c) the lAs will: (i) coordinate preparation of the education budget at the regional level; (ii)
monitor budget implementation; (iii) maintain MEN accounts for all expenditures made at the regional
level; (iv) report to the DAGE all the financial information necessary for consolidating QEFA statements
and prepare quarterly regional PMRs; (v) help comptrollers conduct annual project audits. Disbursements
for local expenses will be made from accounts opened in commercial banks acceptable to IDA at the
regional level. Achieving these objectives will be one of the triggers for the second IDA credit through the
APL.
Management of the school construction program - role of the DCES. The role of the Directorate of
School Construction and Equipment (DCES) will reflect the provisions of the decentralization law - which
transferred authority for classroom construction to local collectivities. The DCES will: (a) define, in
collaboration with the DPRE, minimum standards for school sites, construction, equipment and furniture,
as well as technical criteria for school mapping; (b) negotiate memoranda of agreement with the three
associations of representatives of local collectivities; adherence to these obligations by the latter will allow
MEN to fulfill its responsibility to supply teachers and, when appropriate, financing. In the memoranda of
agreement, local governments agree to respect the criteria for school mapping, provide the necessary sites,
contribute their financial share of the initial investment and provide financing for regular maintenance of
buildings and furniture; (c) help local collectivities assume their new authority over classroom construction
by contracting the services of contract management agencies (CMA); (d) help local collectivities monitor
construction programs managed by CMAs; (e) monitor implementation of local government commitments
related to the financing of maintenance activities; and (f) monitor and evaluate all construction programs in
the country, whatever their source of financing, collect and analyze information on the status of tangible
property and provide relevant information to the DPRE for planning investments.
- 15 -



The CMA with primary responsibility for managing contracts on behalf of local governments in the case of
elementary school construction or rehabilitation or secondary school rehabilitation, as well as for managing
contracts on behalf of MEN when other educational institutions are concerned, will be AGETIP
(construction financed by IDA and AFD). MEN and the local collectivities will sign agreements with this
agency, patterned on those used by the Ministry of Health. As per this model, MEN will sign an agreement
with AGETIP to manage government financing of school construction (up to 95%) including: (i) the
construction program receiving this subsidy and (ii) an agreement template for contract management to be
signed by each local collectivity eligible for governement financing. In the agreement template, the local
collectivity guarantees to pay at least 5% of the initial financing, as well as the recurrent maintenance costs,
and to respect the regulations established in the memorandum of agreement between the MEN and the 3
Associations of Representatives of the local collectivities.
MEN intends to create a School Construction Agency and has undertaken a study to define such an agency,
whose status and operating methods would be similar to those of the Agency for Road Work being created
by the Ministry of Transport. The MEN has indicated its interest in transferring management of school
construction programs from AGETIP to the future agency as soon as it becomes operational. IDA has no
objection to this proposal, provided that the operating criteria for the new agency are similar to those for
AGETIP (operation in line with private sector regulations, competitive recruitment of personnel).
Monitoring and evaluation of the QEFA program. MEN will monitor and evaluate the program on the
basis of detailed terms of reference for each key unit (generally Divisions) within the ministerial structure
(Directorates). The terms of reference were developed during project preparation at the same time that
institutional capacity was evaluated. They will provide the basis for the new flow chart of MEN to be
adopted when the QEFA program is launched. In addition to general performance indicators for the QEFA
program, results-based indicators will be developed for each unit. Together they will form the basis for
joint supervision by development partners. Each unit will develop different ways to monitor its
components, while the planning unit and the DAGE will gather and analyze statistical, financial and
physical data on the rate of program implementation. The new PMR system of financial reports will
provide information on results-based indicators such as expenditures, units built and number of teachers
trained. The capacity to gather, format, transmit and process the data necessary for monitoring the
program will be upgraded at both the central and regional levels. The group of development partners will
coordinate and direct the compilation of information held by partners, such as the amount of expenditures
made directly by them, and will provide this information to the DAGE so that it will not need to approach
each partner individually.
A program implementation completion report (ICR) will be prepared within six months after the closing of
the IDA credit. MEN will contribute to the ICR with its own program evaluation. MEN will commission
special studies on problems that are particularly difficult or specific to certain regions, and on the results of
the main changes in the educational system targeted by the QEFA program, such as the costs and financing
of education, strategies for upgrading capacities, the strategy for developing technical and vocational
education, and improvement of the quality and efficiency of secondary and higher education. The various
departments within MEN will be responsible for these studies, to be carried out with the assistance of a
consultant if necessary. Independent consultants will also conduct technical audits of the program, starting
in the second year, to assess the quality of implementation and make recommendations on ways to improve
strategies related to technical issues.
Manuals of procedures. A Manual of General Procedures describing the responsibilities of each partner
with respect to QEFA program implementation was developed during program preparation. The PAPF
Manual of Procedures will be used for the financing of the QEFA literacy component, a follow-up to the
- 16 -



PAPF project; and the Manual of Procedures of the University Research Fund (FRU), developed during the
PAES project, will be used for all QEFA financing that is a follow-up to PAES. Two other manuals are
being developed: the manual for School Projects (IDA, AFD, FAC, CIDA, ADB) and the manual for the
Vocational Education Support Fund (IDA, FAC, EU). Approval by IDA of these two latter manuals will
be a prerequisite for disbursing funds from the IDA credit for the categories of expenditures involved. The
manuals of procedures will be revised if necessary at the joint annual meetings, with the agreement of
development partners whose funds are to be managed in accordance with these procedures.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The education sector portfolio in Senegal currently includes a basic education project, a literacy project,
and a higher education project. The option of using a separate standard investment project was considered.
The advantages of maintaining separate operations (greater focus, less complex coordination among
different ministry units and departments) were considered to be outweighed by the advantages of a sector
expenditure program (greater scope for needed budget and financial management reform, better linkages
between primary and secondary, and between secondary and higher education, more efficient use of
procurement-proficient personnel within the ministry, greater potential for donor coordination). Within the
context of a sector expenditure program, the APL provides the flexibility needed over the ten-year program,
given the uncertainties associated with decentralization and the various pilot initiatives (notably textbooks
and national languages).
Lending instrument. The lending approach for financing the QEFA is the sector expenditure program.
The lending instrument is the Adaptable Program Loan (APL). This instrument has been considered the
most appropriate from the beginning of program preparation, given the ten-year time frame and the need
for policy and program decisions at several stages well beyond program start-up. A Sector Expenditures
Program (SEP) approach will normally require that the policy and investment program covers the entire
sector from the start. In this case, although a broad policy framework has been defined for the sector, it
was decided that the investment program will be carried out in phases, starting with primary and secondary
education, ECD and literacy, to be followed by Vocational and Technical Education (VET) and higher
education. Primary education is the highest priority; strategies for investment at that level are well defined
and there is common agreement on how to proceed. Options for the other two sub-sectors require more
careful reflection, given the choices yet to be made regarding design of training programs, and the roles of
the public and private sectors. Discussions are ongoing as to how these issues should be resolved. Donors
have agreed to channel their support to the education sector in the context of the PDEF and to agree on
revision and further development of the PDEF through joint annual reviews and a mid-term review.
- 17 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
SectorIssue                       Project               Latest Supervision
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Quality of basic education: textbooks  Human Resource Development   S             S
Project II
Higher education quality, efficiency,   Higher Education Improvement  S           S
resource allocations              Project
NGO-led adult literacy            Female Literacy Project           S             S
Elementary Education
Development Project
Other development agencies
Literacy                          CIDA, KfW, AfDB
Access to basic and secondary      CIDA, AFD, JICA, OPEC,
education                         AfDB, IDB, KfW, Saoudi
Arabia, NGOs
Quality of basic and secondary    FAC, CIDA
education
Textbooks and Special Education   NDF, KfW
Vocational Training               EU, CIDA, FAC
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
(a) Textbooks: The sales-based approach used in the past leaves too many children without textbooks,
particularly the poor. The absence of books, in turn, leads teachers to rely on rote memory approaches,
copying, lower order learning styles. Further the absence of choice leads to mediocre books and diminished
local sense of responsibility for student learning outcomes. Past experience has also shown the importance
of a clear technical support role for INEADE, with the elementary and secondary directorates given full
authority for ensuring that the books and the book distribution system meet.the students' needs. This
component is designed to ensure that all children receive books, that schools have the power of choice to
ensure that the books chosen fit their overall curriculum and learning objectives, that teachers receive
sufficient training to be able to develop new ways of individualizing instruction, that INEADE, DEPEE,
and DEMSG roles are clearly defined and agreed, and that there be sustainable local capacity for
developing textbooks and other learning materials.
(b) Construction: The effectiveness of a contracting approach, by which Government will delegate
responsibility for managing construction to private sector entities such as AGETIP, has been well
demonstrated. Government will then be able to establish norms and standards and to ensure quality
control. This program will give support to the construction unit (DCES) in the Ministry of Education in
developing such a role. It is important that the philosophy underpinning the development of the proposed
construction agency be consistent with this approach.
- 18 -



(c) School improvement: If teaching and learning are to improve, the school must be the locus of change,
and the system as a whole must be organized in ways that support that change. Under the previous project,
the School Development Fund (Fonds de Developpement Scolaire -- FDS) initiative correctly recognized
the importance of empowering teachers and school directors, but this was treated as a marginal activity.
Insufficient support was provided to teacher teams; insufficient attention was given to exchanges of
information based on these teacher-defined activities, and no attempt was made to ensure the long-term
impact and sustainability of school-level planning and budgeting. The current program design builds on
experiences of the FDS, NGOs such as Paul Gerin-Lajoie Foundation and Action Aid, but it also draws
lessons from regional experiences such as the successful PPSE program in Guinea. It seeks to redefine the
roles of the inspectorate and the in-service training centers in order to enable them to respond to
teacher-driven initiatives, and to prepare the way for decentralization of school improvement and budget
management initiatives. .
(d) National languages: The research demonstrates clearly that children acquire basic literacy and
comprehension skills more easily when classes are taught in their own language, particularly in a context
where family and community do not speak the second language. This also facilitates second-language
acquisition and community involvement with the life of the school. The program will include a pilot
experiment with bilingual education curriculum that is designed to be taken to scale in the second phase of
the PDEF.
(e) Decentralization: Considerable experience has been gained in recent years from other projects. Key
elements incorporated in this program are the need for developing a strong information system, reliable
accountability system and for a functional monitoring capacity at all levels of the system. The school
improvement (projets d'ecole) initiative will be the key tool used to develop decentralized planning and
budget capacity.
(f) Sectoral approach: The ongoing Health Sector SIP shows the importance of strengthening existing
structures and developing early and genuine donor coordination (including government as the primary
donor) on approaches to construction, support for decentralization, agreement on policy issues and
priorities.
(g) Adult literacy: The effectiveness of the policy to involve the private sector and NGOs in provision of
adult literacy courses has been seen in the increasing number and quality of these providers and in the
sharply increasing public demand for courses. Phase I of the PDEF will build on the successful strategy of
the PAPA (CIDA program) and the PAPF (I995-99) and support the second phase of the National Literacy
Program with some management changes aiming at: (i) adjusting the program to the increase in both
demand and supply; (ii) integrating post-literacy and functional literacy; (iii) decentralizing program
management; (iv) harmonizing donor support through a program approach. Successive phases of the PDEF
will shift from a project basis to continuous adult education. The content and goals of the adult literacy
program will be revisited in order to give more prominent attention to the skills parents need to support the
school achievement of their children as Senegal moves toward universal primary education.
- 19 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government's commitment and ownership has been very strong, as demonstrated by: (a) the process of
program preparation by which the ministry has included a range of stakeholders, including local authorities,
parents, and teachers; (b) the preparation of numerous technical documents by teams and commissions set
up by the Government; (c) the increasing support given under government budget funds for hiring contract
teachers and volunteers, and for building classrooms (financing has been provided for construction of over
1000 primary school classrooms); and (d) Government's decision to prepare the PDEF and to commit to
universal primary enrollment.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
During program preparation, the Bank has been instrumental in three main areas: (a) technical advice on
education, financing and management issues, (b) strategic advice for mobilizing donor support and
facilitating consensus, and (c) providing a predictable and flexible source of funds to ensure that the core
program will be financed while other donors firm up their contribution to QEFA. The Bank has also
produced background documents to support the MEN's analysis of constraints and alternative solutions
(including cost-benefit and effectiveness analyses, and an education sector expenditure review). The team
working for the Bank on Senegal education issues represents a range of technical and disciplinary
backgrounds and has been associated with successful implementation of education reform in the region,
including teacher financing, textbook rental and use, curriculum enrichment and school improvement
initiatives, low-cost primary school construction, gender equity, adult literacy, and school health, etc.
During program implementation, the Bank will fund key elements of the core program and will provide
technical advice in program implementation.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=-US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Cost-effectiveness. The Government's decision to only hire volontaire and contract teachers,
grand-fathering civil servant teachers through attrition and retirement is the single most cost-effective
policy that will be implemented under the QEFA. The increasing share of salaries in the recurrent budget
over the 1 990s effectively crowded out the capacity to finance inputs such as books, maintenance and
supervision needed to ensure education quality. In primary education the expansion of double shifting and
the recruitment of "voluntaries" after 1995 have permitted the Government to reduce the unit salary costs
per student in real terms and thereby increase the number of teachers and the GER. The ratio between the
salary of a volontaire and a certified teacher (enseignant titulaire) is 1 to 5.4 and 1 to 6.8 for teaching a
double shift class. By 1998 volontaires teachers accounted for 9% of salary unit cost for primary although
they provided about 20% of teachers. Studies carried out during preparation show that teacher status has
no bearing on the quality of teaching. The opportunity cost of not following through with this change in
recruitment policy under the QEFA would represent on average FCFA 2.3 billion limiting primary GER to
less than 80% in 2010.
Other approaches which will improve the cost-effectiveness of the program are reducing in half the training
period for new teachers to 6 months for primary teachers one year for secondary teachers, and instead of
the traditional 1 to 2 years for primary teachers. While detailed economic analysis was not done for the
- 20 -



construction program, donors and government have agreed to adopt low-cost construction standards and
local governrments will be responsible for maintenance which will prolong the life of school buildings
minimizing future rehabilitation and replacement costs. Finally, the policies aiming at improving the
quality of education in secondary and middle schools were validated by a study done in preparation which
concluded that improving the management of schools, improving the provision of books and increasing the
proportion of mandatory hours that teachers taught were the most cost-effective policies. In addition, under
the QEFA, a various initiatives will be evaluated for their cost-effectiveness, including early childhood
development programs, adult literacy, community schools, national language teaching, various textbook
provision schemes and private sector delivery of middle and secondary education services in order to guide
future policy decisions.
Another potential source of savings is the redeployment of administrative positions filled by non-teaching
teachers and supplementary teachers who receive full-time salaries but work only occasionally and other
civil servants who erroneously receive teaching benefits. These reforms will result in significant savings of
FCFA 3 billion and reduce the net recruitment of teachers by 3000 over the course of QEFA.
Although the QEFA covers the entire education system quite comprehensively, the proposed policies for
basic education are likely to have the most direct impact upon poverty reduction. Increasing primary
education's share of recurrent expenditures to 44% by 2003 coupled with the adoption of a recruitment
policy of hiring volontaire and contracted teachers will benefit children in rural areas and from the poorest
households, where the GER is the lowest. Using multi-grade schools in rural areas more extensively,
targeting school construction to poor areas and the construction of small rural middle schools will respond
to factors contributing to low demand for education by poor families. The provision of free textbooks will
reverse a policy that deterred in the past children from the lowest quintiles from attending school. Special
attention to the needs of educating girls will aim to reduce the gap between girls' and boys' enrollment,
drop-out, repetition and completion rates. Partial cost-recovery could have a negative impact on the
demand for education, particularly at middle school level. The Government has decided to allow local
school associations some say in determining school fees. This issue will be monitored in the first phase and
hopefully will lead to a criteria based school subsidy system. A trigger for the second phase will be the
development of a adequate fee schedule.
Government Expenditures. Detailed projections and a three-year budget integrating recurrent and
investment expenditures by level of education and by source of financing for the 10 year program were
produced by the Government and are found in the project files. Providing 80% of QEFA resources and
with approximately 90% of these resources financing recurrent expenditures, Government plays a deciding
role in improving the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of expenditures. With respect to intra-sectoral
allocations, the proposed program should improve the quality of public recurrent expenditures. The share
allocated to primary will increase to 44% by 2003 (and to 50% by the end of the program in 2010) up from
36% in 1996 due to hiring 2000 new teachers annually and increasing expenditures on other inputs related
to improving learning at school level. The share to higher education will decline from 24.9% in 1998 to
20% by 2003 and 18% by 2010, primarily as a result of reducing enrolments (from 27,300 to 23,500)
rationalizing staff and limiting scholarship to FCFA 3.5 billion annually. Administrative expenditures will
decline from 6% of total recurrent expenditure to 4.2% by 2003 primarily by improving efficiency of
headquarters staff and freezing allocations to this function. Regarding the economic composition of
government expenditures, wages' declining share (as a result of recruitment policies) to 70% of recurrent
expenditures on education will allow for more expenditures on quality inputs - in particular supervision,
training and other pedagogic materials.
- 21 -



2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
The persistence of inefficiencies in sector expenditure management has greatly influenced Governrment's
decision to not increase education's share of public resources. Nevertheless, it is committed to providing
33% of its national budget and 8% of the investment budget for the QEFA. Resource projections for the
education sector based on assumptions (on an annual basis) that GDP (and household's incomes) will grow
at 5%, GDP deflator at 2%, population at 3%, household expenditures on education will increase from
0.8% to 2% of household expenditures and local government's expenditure on education will also increase
from 5% of local budgets to 10% over the next 10 years. The total cost of the first phase of QEFA is
estimated to be US$926 million; of which 69% is for increasing access, 26% for improving the quality of
education and 5% is allocated for improving the management of the system and rendering it more
decentralized. Government is the largest financier of the education sector, providing 79.7% of total
resources followed by donors with 15%, households and local governments with 4% and 1.3% respectively.
Donors will finance 62.3% of all investment expenditures; 95% of external financing needs have been
identified at the time of negotiations. Central and local government will provide 37.5% of investment
resources, mainly for construction services and counterpart financing. For recurrent expenditures, donors
and households will each provide about 4% of recurrent expenditures for training, services and materials.
Household participation represents fees which will be used to finance quality inputs at the post-primary
levels. Central government is the main source of financing for recurrent expenditures, financing 90.1% of
expenditures - mainly for salaries and other operating costs.
3. Technical:
The sector faces three key technical challenges. First, it must quickly develop the capacity to identify and
respond to lack of demand for schooling among various marginalized groups. A well-functioning EMIS is
a necessary if not sufficient condition to this effect. The active engagement of each IDEN-level education
team will be crucial to success in this area. The Special Needs Initiative should help sensitize personnel at
all levels of the system to the existence of marginalized groups and to the collective responsibility for
finding ways to respond.
A second technical challenge will be to develop a viable model for school improvement, that leads to a
consensus regarding purpose of schooling, content, relevance. These issues will be informed by the school
projects initiative, as well as the pilot experimentation in the areas of reading, textbooks and national
languages.
A third central technical issue has to do with the decentralized management of schooling. Local authorities
and school officials will require support in helping to ensure that the move to decentralization leads to
faster response times and greater sensitivity to supply and demand issues.
The government's Statement of Education Sector Policy recognizes these issues and makes important
moves away from the strictly supply-oriented policies of the past. The education team working on QEFA
agrees with government that the learning process built into the APL should significantly advance technical
standards in the sector. The pilot program, along with the school projects, will require careful monitoring
and evaluation in order to create the feedback loops that will lead to stronger technical performance on a
sustainable basis.
- 22 -



4. Institutional:
The Ministry of National Education (AMEN) will be the executing agency for the Quality Education for All
(QEFA) program, except for its adult literacy component, for which, at MEN's request, the executing
agency will remain A GETIP, in continuation of the PAPF project. For all the other components, the DAGE
will be responsible for financial execution and procurement. Each directorate will be responsible for
executing its own component, while the DPRE will play a special part in overall coordination and the
DCES will be central with respect to the construction program. An evaluation of MEN's institutional
ability to carry out QEFA was conducted by MEN during project preparation. The process included a
self-assessment by each responsible unit, followed by group sessions organized by the DPRE and DAGE.
The DAGE also carried out an evaluation of capacity with respect to procurement by using the model
questionnaire supplied by the World Bank. World Bank missions have played a catalytic and critical role in
this process, which has helped the national team to identify strongly with the QEFA program. The
breakdown of evaluation outcomes is provided in Annex 12. The conclusions of the evaluation of
institutional capacities may be summarized as follows:
4.1 Executing agencies:
(i)      DAGE will be responsible for executing the new mandates described in Chapter C4 with
respect to financial management and procurement. These responsibilities imply a radical change in the role
of DAGE and therefore call for new institutional skills. Organizationally, the idea is for DAGE to give up
its personnel management role, which will be looked after by a new directorate (HRD) to be created
specifically for that purpose, in order to be able to focus on its financial management and procurement
functions, which in QEFA will be considerably wider than in the past. A new organizational chart has been
prepared for DAGE and is due to be approved in 2000. The Directorate is fully capable of providing
leadership. It has accumulated considerable experience and has already successfully decentralized the
operating budgets of the MEN. In 1997 it directed the public expenditure review. It also has a clear grasp
of what is involved in the decentralization of investment program management to be undertaken in QEFA.
DAGE human resources, which are of high quality but too few, will be greatly reinforced, on the one hand
by the transfer in early 2000 of all the accounting and procurement expertise hitherto located in the two
PCUs of the PDRH2 and PAES projects, which are to be disbanded, and, on the other, by additional
recruitment of civil servants under a reinforcement plan to be submitted to IDA during negotiations. The
transfer of skills from contractual personnel to permanent staff formed part of the terms of reference of the
former, and will be accompanied by training courses for the latter. Material resources will be strengthened
above all by the transfer to the DA GE of those currently available to the PCU of PDRH2, as well as by the
installation of a computerized financial management system connected to the MEN global Information
System. The latter will make it possible to monitor all sector expenditure regardless of the sources of
funding and it will be designed to keep track of the gradual decentralization of financial management.
DAGE working methods will be radically altered to allow: (i) financial management to shift from an
administrative to a managerial mode, which requires personnel to be proactive and accountable for delays
and results; (ii) systematic use of outsourcing; (iii) systematic dissemination of information on QEFA
resources, expenditure, and procurement. These changes in working methods which DAGE wishes to
introduce will be sustained by providing special training courses for its staff.
(ii)     DPRE. The Planning Unit's coordination function has been boosted with regard to
programming, monitoring/evaluation, regulation, information, and support for decentralization. These new
DPRE mandates, which are described in detail in Chapter C4, imply a considerable strengthening of its
capacity, much of which got underway during project preparation. The way the DPRE is currently
organized is inadequate and will be replaced by a new organizational chart and the new terms of reference
that were devised in the course of project preparation and are due to be approved in early 2000. They are
- 23 -



rightly organized around three Departments -- Information, Statistics and Outlook, Education Plans -- and
a General Secretariat. In this scheme, SIMEN, the unit responsible for electronic data processing in MEN
that today forms part of the Minister's departmental staff, is to be incorporated into DPRE. Leadership:
Working with the Director, the current DPRE team provided very effective leadership in 1998 during
preparation of QEFA, coordinating the work of all the directorates, the regional and departmental
inspectors (IA and IDEN), foreign financial partners, and local collectivities as preparations for regional
and departmental plans (PRDE and PDDE) got underway. The team has a clear grasp of the project and
of its ow-n mission and its competence is acknowledged by both domestic and external partners. Human
resources: Since 1998, about a dozen competent and experienced executives from MEN and other
ministries have been seconded to DPRE to prepare QEFA and they constitute a solid core. The human
resources development plan devised by DPRE to support QEFA has begun to be executed with: (i) the
creation of two budget posts that were recently filled (one for a planner, the other for an
economist/statistician) and (ii) the transfer (now taking place) of the PCU of PDRH2's education expert
and the PCU of PAES administrator to DPRE. The other staff needed will be obtained by transferring
personnel within MEN and/or secondment from other ministries. Training courses in management and
planning will be provided to staff that need them. Computer equipment will be installed as well as the
global Information System for the education sector. Inspired by work initiated by DPRE in February 1999,
this system will be decentralized in order to help the regions and departments prepare a decentralized
annual report and complete their own development plans (PRDE and PDDE) and annual operation plans
(OP). The information system will cover: (i) school-level data, (ii) student characteristics, (iii) personnel
issues, (iv) financial and expenditure data supplied automatically by the DAGE information subsystem,
and (v) student learning outcomes. It will also provide data for tracking project-related performance
indicators. Gradually declining financial support for project operations is contemplated in the program.
DPRE practices have already begun to change as a result of making personnel accountable for results
rather than activities. This shift will be reinforced by appropriate training. Even so, it will be necessary to
improve dialogue with local collectivities and the private sector through implementation and regular use of
contracting-out mechanisms in connection with the PDDE and PRDE.
(iii)    Local governments (LGs). The LGs have very little ability to fulfill the mandates restored by
the decentralization law in the field of education. The project contemplates support for the LGs in the form
of information and training, which will complement a plethora of already existing projects financed by
numerous donors and designed to support the LGs as examples of decentralization. Given their weak
capacity, the idea is for them to delegate their school building contractor functions to one or several
contract management agencies (CMAs), receive technical assistance from the DCES, particularly for local
construction planning, and evaluate the performance of the CMAs. The contract-based approach expressed
in the signing by MEN and the LGs of draft agreements and (PDDE and PRDE) development plans will
allow: (i) acceptance of a uniform arrangement for all LGs and (ii) decentralized negotiations, on a case by
case basis, regarding the implementation of that arrangement, which should make it possible to avoid the
difficulties associated with the marked differences in the technical and financial capacities of individual
LGs. The Information System run by DPRE will be organized in such a way as to furnish the LGs with
the appropriate data needed for any decisions they need to take.
(iv)     AGETIP. In the QEFA program, AGETIP plays two distinct roles: on the one hand, it is the
Executing Agency for the adult literacy component financed by IDA and, on the other, it is the main
contract management agency (CMA) of the local collectivities for the construction, rehabilitation, and
equipping of classrooms financed by IDA and CFD. Since these functions are a continuation of the
mandates successfully carried out by AGETIP in the PAPF project (as execution agency) and the PDRH2
project (as CMA), the Agency's ability to perform both functions has been evaluated and deemed to be
adequate.
- 24 -



4.2 Project management:
(i)       Organization. MEN's organizational chart and directorate manuals were largely obsolete well
before preparation of the PDEF/QEFA program got underway. A number of responsibilities were split
among numerous decision centers that were themselves poorly defined and coordinated. Development
interventions took place in connection with "projects" that were either inconsistent or barely coordinated
with other projects in terms of objectives, strategies, or activities. Under the QEFA program, the MEN
organizational chart will be redesigned to bring the mandates of the different directorates in line with the
program's objectives. It will also accommodate new directorates, such as the Human Resources
Directorate. New manuals defining the functions of each directorate will be introduced to reflect the major
shifts in functions brought about by: (i) the new objectives and reforms in the QEFA program, (ii) the
decentralization law, which transfers a large number of MEN tasks to the local collectivities, (iii) the MEN
decentralization process, which transfers a number of central directorate responsibilities to the IA and
IDEN, (iv) the delegation of responsibilities to the schools and grassroots school communities and (v) the
outsourcing strategy and contracting out of numerous services previously provided by the Administration.
These manuals will reflect the new way the sector is to be run, with the Ministry focusing on guidance,
coordination, monitoring, and evaluation, while execution functions shall be delegated to the partners in
education, particularly the private sector, using a contract-based hiring system. The new sector policy
letter (2000-2010) is the instrument used to get the new "program" approach, to which the partners in
development also subscribe, off the ground, along with the new outsourcing strategies.
(ii)      Leadership. Despite the individual qualities of those currently in charge, leadership
effectiveness (the management system) in MEN was until recently undermined by the compartmentalization
of decision-makers. One of the major outcomes of the PDEF/QEFA preparation process has been the
development of a team spirit, which has made it possible to exploit synergies among managers/leaders
throughout the central and decentralized education system. As the program gets underway, the group of
directors, L4 and IDEN: (i) share a common, clear, and determined approach to the set of reforms to be
undertaken, (ii) are fully committed to the new strategies that have been developed, especially
decentralization, outsourcing, and privatization, (iii) are gradually eliminating the previous
compartmentalization among directorates, (iv) fully accept the change in paradigm implied by
decentralization, v) are highly familiar with the Manual of Procedures and Action Plans, and (vi) grasp the
need to shift from an administrative to a managerial approach. Generally speaking, the directors and IA
possess the necessary academic qualifications, experience, and leadership skills to direct this program.
However, with a few exceptions, they still have to improve their ability to delegate responsibilities to their
colleagues. The program preparation team will be transformed painlessly, without disruption or major
changes, into the National Committee for Coordination and Follow-up. Apart from the ability to delegate,
senior MEN officials will also have to learn how to co-manage the educational system with locally elected
LG representatives. The participatory, decentralized, and contract-based planning mechanisms developed
under the QEFA program since 1998 will serve that purpose, although it will also require specific training
in modern management techniques for elected officials and education managers. Such training is
contemplated in the program.
(iii)    Human resources. The major problem to be solved was, and largely still is, the very weak
initial capabilities of the professional teams working with the directors. Nevertheless, in the course of
program preparation, DPRE has tackled and largely succeeded in raising its human resource capabilities
by acquiring the services of an initial nucleus of qualified professionals. Similarly, although to a lesser
extent, a core unit of sufficiently qualified professionals has also been formed in DAGE by transferring
personnel with the required expertise from the 2 PCUs (PDRH2 and PAES) that are to be gradually
disbanded. This initial expertise will suffice to begin program management. DPRE and DAGE human
- 25 -



resources will be further strengthened in the course of the program itself in order to allow it to take
responsibility for putting in place decentralized management capabilities in the educational system. For all
other directorates in MEN, the QEFA program includes implementation of a human resource reinforcement
plan, which will be completed prior to negotiations. Some of the professional staff coming from the two
PCUs will be redeployed in the various directorates, particularly the PCU administrative support personnel
in order to ensure that staff are trained in modern ways of handling files and records. The terms of
reference for those in charge will be completed before the Credit enters into force. Use of Technical
Assistance (TA) is envisaged whenever necessary, but particular emphasis has been placed on
implementing the intemal redeployment process and on training staff in the directorates, in order to make it
possible eventually to do without TA.
(iv)     Material resources. MEN suffers from a chronic shortage of material resources not just
because of a lack of funds, but also, and to a large extent, due to weak material resource management.
Replacement and upkeep of material purchased have been neglected, leading to widespread deterioration of
the already inadequate stock of material resources and a negative impact on the effectiveness of teaching.
The need to determine the costs of the QEFA program provided an opportunity to establish the ability to
plan and estimate requirements, in terms of both infrastructure and recurrent expenditure. A MEN
(DAGE-DPRE) team was successfully trained in the use of the World Bank's Costab software and it
prepared the cost estimates for the QEFA program, including all sources of financing. MEN thus had at its
disposal a tool for arbitration among components and partners. This approach has strengthened MEN's
identification with the program. During execution, the "program" approach will be put to good advantage
to establish, for each type of good to be purchased, a consolidated inventory of what there is and what is
needed in the sector, together with a transparent distribution of purchases among interested partners, all of
which will enable needs to be adequately covered, while avoiding duplication and the risk of duplicated
requests for funding. The Procurement Plan that MEN is to submit for negotiation will taken into account
all the program's requirements and it will identify all sources of financing. Materials needed to strengthen
institutional capabilities will be dealt with under this framework. The PP will be updated during the annual
program reviews, to which financial partners are invited. The question of renewal of equipment and
infrastructure maintenance has largely been incorporated into the sector financing model developed by the
Applied Economics Research Center (Centre de Recherche en Economie Appliquee -- CREA) in order to
estimate the long-term sustainability of the PDEF. The Ministry of Finance has provided assurances that it
will use the financing framework established by the CREA financing model adopted at the end of QEFA
program preparation. School building maintenance is central in the draft agreements between MlEN and
local governments (LGs), because they reflect the LGs' newly restored role in this area. Training and an
incentive for LGs (in the form of a matching fund) are envisaged in QEFA in order to reverse the previous
situation.
(v)      Practices. Past practice was characterized by numerous ad-hoc interventions, spurred by
availability of funds and implemented in a compartmentalized and intermittent fashion by officials who
may have been accountable for their activities on an administrative level but who were not -- or only barely
- responsible for results. The program preparation process provided an opportunity to radically alter such
practices, especially through: (i) the successful development of the program approach, which will be
consolidated with the use of the Annual Operation Plans (OP) tool, (ii) the shift from responsibility for
activities to responsibility for results, a change that will be consolidated by introducing performance
indicators in the OP in order to accustom those in charge to measuring their performance regularly and
taking corrective steps where necessary, and (iii) the change in attitude in the education sector directorates
(DPRE, DAGE, INEADE), which are gradually developing a "service" approach to the operational
directorates, which helps eliminate compartmentalization among the directorates. The Manual of
Procedures will help to consolidate a decompartmentalized approach and encourage proactive behavior on
- 26 -



the part of the different partners, while clarifying the responsibilities of each of them, the sequences to be
followed, their modus-operandi, and the inter-relations between the responsibilities of the different partners.
The contracting out of regional and departmental development plans (PDDE and PRDE) between MEN
and locally elected representatives, as well as the draft agreements between MEN and associations of
locally elected representatives likewise constitute crucial changes in behavior, which facilitate the process
of making partners responsible for the results each of them expects from voluntary implementation of a
mutually accepted program.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted in July 1994. The findings of this
review remain valid. In general, Senegal's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA
guidelines. No special exceptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in Credit documents since
Senegal's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in
local regulations. IDA-financed Works and Goods will be purchased in accordance with World Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be
used for all International Competitive Bidding procedure. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised
locally would be carried out in accordance with Senegal's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to
IDA provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation
and bidder qualifications are clearly specified in the bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is
granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from the competition; and
(v) prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding document is submitted to IDA and
deemed acceptable by it. The standard bidding document for NCB will be based on the World Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents, with appropriate modifications for advertisement of the Invitation For Bids
(which may be limited to the major national daily newspaper), the currency of the bid price and payment,
applicable laws, etc. IDA-financed Consultant Services will be procured in accordance with the World
Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World bank Borrowers, published
in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. See detailed information on the
procurement arrangements by category of expenditure in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management of the program would be centered around DAGE at the central level, the lAs at
the regional level and AGETIP for the adult literacy sub component. DAGE would have overall
responsibility including:(a) education sector budget planning; (b) coordination with DEPRE of the
preparation of budgets associated with the annual operating plans regardless sources of financing, nature of
expenditure and body in charge with implementing the expenditures; (c) make initial deposits from Public
Treasury resources and advance accounts at the central and decentralized levels; (d) implement the
Government's investment budget and recurrent budget (except for funds allocated through advance
accounts) at the decentralized levels and expenditures from external investment credits; (e) oversee
expenditures made on the authority of MEN (advance accounts) and monitor expenditures made by
autonomous entities such as universities, local governments and development partners; (f) reimburse
advance accounts from the IDA special accounts held by DDI and other special accounts; (g) oversee
AGETIP management of the second special account for literacy education subprojects, (h) maintain and
consolidate all QEFA program accounts in accordance with international accounting standards; including
the IDA special account for all components, as well as the special accounts of other donors; (i) ensure that
all partners adhere to the Manual of Accounting and Financial Procedures; 6) ensure that audits of
acceptable detail and scope are performed in a timely fashion and submitted on the specified dates to MEN,
MEFP, IDA and other development partners; and (k) prepare quarterly Program Management Reports
(PMRs (i) Project Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii)Uses of Funds by Project Activities; (iii) Special Account
- 27 -



Statement; (iv) Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods & Works); (v) Procurement Process Monitoring
(Consultants' Services); (vi) Contract Expenditure Report (Goods & Works); and (vii) Contract
Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services)). AGETIP that will manage the second special account for
literacy education subprojects, would have to keep separate accounts for this sub component. Due to the
decentralized approach of the program, the 10 L4 located at the regional level are also expected to play a
key role in the program's financial management. See Annex 11 for more information on the financial
management mechanisms and arrangements.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and
disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Schools with inadequate sanitary facilities can have a significant impact on the immediate school
environment and nearby water supplies. Under this component, a number of existing schools will be
retrofitted with latrines and a latrine maintenance program will be instituted. All new school construction
will use methods and materials chosen to minimize negative environmental impact. Sanitation facilities will
be built at a number of schools, and these will be sited to avoid contaminating water supplies. Boreholes,
etc., will only be drilled after environmental review. The program will also promote environmental
awareness through the curriculum and education materials.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Gender. The QEFA will help implement MEN's plan of action for gender initiatives. The 1996/97
national Household Survey found that education for women in rural areas was associated not only with
higher household consumption but also with benefits related to the health, nutritional status and schooling
of their children. Girls' share of total enrollment in primary, middle school and secondary education is only
47.1%, 40.4% and 37.6% respectively. Repetition rates are significantly higher for girls in every grade and
every region. MEN statistics show similar dropout rates for boys and girls, but these will need to be
revisited, given the increasing gender disparities observed in higher levels of the system. The DPRE will
monitor the gender dimension of all policy and planning initiatives. Regional gender units will monitor
such initiatives as providing scholarships for girls, providing safe boarding facilities for female students
and incorporating gender issues into the curriculum and teacher training. Of particular concern is the
extraordinary gender disparity observed in eastern and southern Africa regarding HIV/AIDS incidence
- 28 -



among 15-19 year-olds (80-85% of those infected in this age group are female). Aggressive action
including school-based behavior-change programs can help prevent these figures from being repeated in
Senegal, which has one of Africa's lowest rates of HIV infection.
Vulnerable groups. The program targets activities to rural areas and to under-served regions where the
incidence of poverty is substantially above average. Activities specifically emphasize the needs of poorer
regions and households. Most of the construction and rehabilitation program will concentrate on rural
areas. The decentralization of management responsibility and resources, along with accompanying skills
development, will give rural communities greater control.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries are the children of Senegal. Their perspective has been learned through
extensive classroom visits, and results of the national household survey. An incidence analysis was
conducted to determine the impact of various initiatives on selected group of children.
The PDEF was developed with the participation of a full range of stakeholders including teachers, parents,
local communities, development partners, NGOs, and religious organizations. This was achieved through:
(a) bringing teachers and staff into the decision-making process, through the various working groups, (b)
increasing representation of actors at the regional, local and school levels in the planning process; (c)
training school directors to interact more effectively with communities; and (d) holding consultative
sessions with civil society. The school grants program provides for ongoing participation of teachers and
parents in defining school improvement activities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
For projects expected to receive authorization to appraise/negotiate (in principle) prior to April 30, 2000,
this section may be left blank.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Po.ic.                                      Appiitability
Li Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            El Yes Zi No
E Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04. GP 4.04)                     Ci Yes X No
C:Forestry (OP 4.36_ GP 4.36)                                       L Yes Li No
Pest Management (OP4.09                                         El Yes _L No
ECultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     EL Yes X No
Indigenous Peoples (D 4.20)                                     1 Yes Zi No
El Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              LI Yes Li No
Li Safety of Dams (OP 4.37. BP 4.37)                                Li Yes Li No
El Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     El Yes Li No
LI Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          L Yes Li No
- 29 -



7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Government, the largest financier of the QEFA providing about 80% of total resources, is committed to
providing 33% of government recurrent expenditures and 8% of public investment expenditures for the first
phase of the education sector program. Donors are providing 15% of resources while other sources of
domestic financing will contribute a small but growing share of financing - primarily for operating
expenditures. The Government will provide 90% of financing for recurrent expenditures for the program
which seems reasonable and sustainable. Implementing successfully the policy reforms related to financing
of education will provide the basis for the continued expansion of the system to the poorest sections of
society and improving learning in schools. The involvement of beneficiaries in the financing of education at
the post-primary will require greater accountability of government to improving the quality and
cost-effectiveness of education services and will facilitate the decentralization of decision-making, thereby
contributing to the sustainability of the QEFA objectives.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Ratinhg             Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Insufficient demand for schooling, school  M         Communications strategy to be developed,
improvement initiatives, ECD model.                  special education programs for marginalized
groups.
There will be a continued supply of
volunteer and contract teachers for new              Government will re-deploy under-employed
positions.                                           teachers to minimize demand for new teachers.
Government increases recurrent             M         Financial simulations modeling used for wide
expenditures to allow expansion in                   discussions within government, up-front and
teacher numbers                                      agreements will be sought on cost recovery
measures for higher levels of system.
Teachers' unions will continue to agree              Extensive up-front discussion and agreements
with new recruitment and financing                   with all teacher unions.
provisions.
Adequate reporting and financial control   M         Technical Assistance financial management
mechanisms can be put in place in a                  procedures developed.
timely fashion.
Stakeholders (including teachers,                    Communications strategy put in place.
directors, and parents) accept and                   Teachers will prepare individual plans for
implement the curriculum reforms.                    failing students, remedial classes and school
grants used and free books used.
- 30 -



Government is able to collaborate with     S        Manual of Procedures developed in
private sector and NGOs to develop a                collaboration with NGOs.
demand-based strategy for vocational
training.
Post-literacy materials will be available to  M     School reading corners and other material
adults having completed the literacy                developed, involvement of parents in school
training.                                           management.
Textbook choice mechanisms are                      Communication strategy and training programs
accepted .                                          developed.
There is not backtracking on measures to   H        Progress report included in annual expenditure
assign responsibility to assign teacher             review.
management to local entities.
Decentralization will move forward as     M         Communities involved in preparation of annual
scheduled in Senegal and budget funds               regional budgets in annual reviews.
will be available in a timely fashion.
Policy makers and implementers            M         Study program developed and formal discussion
incorporate the findings of M& E to                 at time of annual meeting.
adjust QEFA implementation.
From Components to Outputs
Implementing agencies: (DAGE and          M         Technical Assistance will be hired to help in
DPRE) within MEN quickly master Bank                developing financial management information
and donor procedures.                               system and evaluation capacity.
Regions and departments have sufficient   M         QEFA builds planning, budgeting capacity.
personnel to prepare implementation of              Simulation model has been decentralized and
subsequent phases of program.                       financial management capacity will be
strengthened.
Donors coordinate inputs.                  M        Reporting protocols will be established and joint
annual review meetings.
Overall Risk Rating                        M        Extensive ongoing evaluation, communications
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
(i)    The creation by MEN of a school construction agency and MEN's intention to transfer the
management of school constructions contracted to AGETIP to this agency is acceptable to IDA as long as
the operation criteria of the new agency comply with those of AGETIP (operation in accordance with
private sector procedures, competitive recruitment of personnel according to labor market needs). MEN
has not specified this plan clearly yet.
(ii)    Management of the PDEF from within the Ministry instead of PCU.
- 31 -



(iii)  Increased cost recovery for secondary and higher education.
(iv)   Use of national languages in lower levels of primary education.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)   the Borrower has, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to the Development
Credit Agreement, appointed an auditor for purposes of Article IV of this Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower has adopted a Program Implementation Manual, in form and substance acceptable to
the Association;
(c)    MEN has entered into (i) an agreement with the Maitre d 'ouvrage delegue, and (ii) a Protocole d'
Accord with the Associations des Elus Locaux, both in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(d)   the Borrower has (i) established a financial management and accounting system, satisfactory to the
Association; and (ii) adopted a Financial Procedures Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the
Association;
(e)   the Borrower has completed the procurement plan for the first two years of the Project;
(f)   the Borrower has approved the POBA for the first year of the Project, in accordance with, and
subject to, the provisions of paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(g)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and AGETIP; and
(h)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited therein the amount of the Initial
Deposit.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a)    Submission by the end of the first and third quarters of each year, of a progress report including
information on agreed outcome and performance indicators based on data from the program monitoring
reporting system. The report will include, a summary statement on the status of implementation of each
component, including compliance with project covenants and progress in meeting agreed policy objectives.
(b)    Submission by December 31, 2001, of a mid-term report showing progress achieved since program
effectiveness, and a work program covering the period until project completion.
(c)    Submission by June 30, 2001, of a policy strategy and work program for privatization of textbook
publication and distribution.
(d)    Submission by December 31, 2000, of an action plan for the improvement of internal efficiency
(drop-out, repetition, length of school year and teaching hours).
(e)    Submission by December 31, 2000, of a methodological guideline and a manual of procedures for
school improvement grants to be acceptable to IDA.
- 32 -



(f)    Submission of a report on maintenance.
(g)    Annual review of the financial model.
(h)    Implementation by October 31, 2000 of an action plan to rationalize teachers' management
(benefits, etc.)
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
El 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The manual of general procedures and the financial procedures' manual were reviewed at negotiations and
will be finalized before credit effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Robert S. Prouty       JNilas R. Burnett                            Mahmood A. Ayub
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Country Manager/Director
- 33 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Broad-based, equitable     Economic growth rate       Ministry of Finance annual   Increased access to quality
economic development and                             report; Poverty Assessment   education will lead to
poverty reduction                                                                economic development and
poverty reduction
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
To achieve universal basic    *10% of 3 to 5 year-old  MEN statistical records and   eAdequate financing will be
education.                  children will benefit from    Program Monitoring      available to cover the
ECD program (1% by end of Reporting (PMR)             increases in recurrent
first phase)                                          expenditures for primary
education associated with
this program
.100% gross primary
enrollment (75% by end of
the first phase)
*Girls represent 50% of
primary enrollment (46% by
end of the first phase)
*50% gross middle school
enrollment (35% by end of
first phase
-34 -



Key Pefomiand.
Hierarchy of Qbj*ctives         Jindicators         Monitoring & Ealu.ation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
The framework for quality    *Gross primary enrollment   MEN statistical yearbook  *The departmental and
universal basic education is   rate from 65% to 75%, with                        regional education
effective and ready for    Grade One admission rate                              development plans
national implementation.   going from 68% to 80% and                             accurately reflect the PDEF,
2nd Phase: UPE Grades 1-4   the percentage of primary                            and are owned and
3rd Phase: UPE achieved    students who are girls from                          implemented at the
44% to 46%.                                          school/conmmunity level.
*1% of children aged 3 to 5   DEPEE student achievement
are in ECD centers.      report
*At least 2% annual increase  DEMSG implementation
in national student      report
achievement scores
compared to existing
baseline in French and math
for Gr. 4.
*Repetition rate reduced to
10% as a result of program
initiatives.
*Implementation of 20 hour
teaching week as norm for
middle and secondary school
teachers.
*Percentage of students
attending primary schools
offering a complete six-year
cycle increases from 64% to
80%.
*Reduction by 25% of the
number of classes that fall
outside the minimum and
maximum norms for class
size.
- 35 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Communities send their    *Creation of one ECD center  Site visits, PMR     *Growth in demand for
children to nearby schools, as  by at least 180 communities                      schooling parallels
gross primary enrollment   in 5 regions.                                         expansion of school places
reaches 75% nationally. 2nd
Phase: 90% gross primary    *6000 primary school     DCES                       *Households, communities,
enrollment. 3rd Phase: 100%   classrooms built                                   NGOs and regions support
gross primary enrollment                                                         locally-driven school
*Implementation and       DCES                        improvement initiatives
financing of maintenance
program by local                                    *ECD model is acceptable to
municipalities covering at                           communities and other
least 80% of the 6000                                development partners
primary school classrooms to
be built.                                           *There will be continued
supply of volunteer and
*1800 primary school      DCES                        contract teachers for new
classrooms renovated, wells                          positions.
installed for 570 schools and
latrines for 1080 schools
*258 middle school        IDEN and IA annual reports
classrooms built, of which at
least 50% are neighborhood
middle schools.
*Multigrade teacher training  DCES
modules designed and
implemented in 5 regions.
*30 neighborhood secondary  DCES
school classes built and 165
additional secondary school
classes renovated.
*Demand-driven training   PMR
programs implemented, with
an annual disbursement of
$150,000 by the Vocational
Training Fund.
*Construction of CUR      DCES
Bambey.
-36 -



2. Optimal strategies for  *Training of 450 ECD      EMIS data, PMR             *Government increases
improving the quality of   monitors.                                            recurrent expenditures to
education delivery are tested                                                    allow expansion in teacher
and ready for implementation * 80% of primary schools in 3 EMIS, PMR             numbers.
by MEN. 2nd Phase: IA      IA have prepared school
responsibility for         improvement plans, with 400                          *Teachers' unions will
implementation. 3rd Phase:   primary schools having                              continue to agree with new
IDEN responsibility for    implemented school                                    recruitment and financing
implementation             improvement programs                                  provisions.
financed through small
grants; 80% of middle and                           *Adequate reporting and
secondary schools in 10 IA                           financial control
have prepared school                                 mechanisms can be put in
improvement plans, with 150                          place in a timely fashion.
uniddle and secondary
schools having implemented                          *Stakeholders (including
school improvement                                  teachers, directors, and
programs financed through                            parents) accept and
small grants                                         implement the curriculum
reforms
*10 schools in each IDEN  Site visits
have classroom libraries with                       *Textbook attrition can be
at least 20 reading books.                           minimized by training and
subsequent involvement of
*80% of children in pilot  Site visits                parents and teachers in book
schools utilize classroom                            management practices.
library resources for reading
instruction on a daily basis.
*At least 400 classrooms  PMR, INEADE reports,
covering 6 languages adopt  mid-term review
curricular plans and
materials in national
languages.
*Each child receives 3    INEADE reports, mid-term    *Government is able to
textbooks on loan from   review                      collaborate with the private
school each year.                                    sector and NGOs to develop
a demand-based strategy for
vocational training
*Deworming program        PMR, School Health reports  *Post-literacy materials will
implemented in all schools.                          be available to adults having
Anti-AIDS, FGM program                               completed the literacy
defined and implemented in                           training.
each IDEN.
*Initiate post-literacy   Program Coordinator Reports, *School personnel have
programs in 10 IDEN.     National Literacy Program   sufficient knowledge and
Report                      will to lead school
improvement process.
- 37 -



*A standardized testing cycle INEADE reports          *Textbook choice
will be implemented for one                           mechanisms are accepted by
level of primary schooling                            teachers and inspectors, and
and one level of secondary                            teachers change their
schooling in 10 IA.                                   teaching style based on the
Pedagogical support and                               availability of books.
materials will be provided to
teachers based on
standardized testing results.
*A net increase of 2000    PMR, Annual coordinator    *Communities are willing to
primary school teachers will reports, mid-term review  increase education
be recruited annually as                              expenditures to finance ECD
volunteers, with the                                  and primary education and
possibility of becoming                               maintenance activities.
contract teachers after 4
years of satisfactory service.
Pre-service training will be
provided for 2 cohorts of
1250 teachers annually at the
EFI. New modules will be
introduced into pre-service
training at the EFI dealing
with multigrade teaching,
science teaching using
demonstration kits, national
languages and reading.
3. National and regional   *All 40 IDEN manage        PMR, interviews with       *Personnel management:
administrative entities are able  contract teacher personnel   department officers, site visits, There is no backtracking on
to successfully manage the  policies.                 salary records              measures to assign
education system. 2nd Phase:                                                      responsibility for teacher
Regional budget and action                                                        management to local
plans prepared and serve as                                                       entities; acceptable
guide to system management.                                                       mechanisms can be
3rd Phase: Departmental                                                           developed to include civil
budget and action plans                                                           service teachers in these
prepared and serve as guide to                                                    arrangements.
system management
implementation
- 38 -



*At least 8 IA prepare    PMR, school visits,        *Decentralization will move
comprehensive action plans  beneficiary assessment   forward as scheduled in
and budgets for recurrent   reports, mid-term review, site  Senegal, and budget funds
and investment expenditures. visits, annual review of the  will be available locally in a
QEFA conducted by donors   timely fashion,
and government.
*Program for education    PMR, annual coordinator    *Literacy training can be
monitoring and reporting    reports                  effectively linked to
(PMR) operational.                                   community development
initiatives.
*LACI-compliant fnancial   PMR, mid-term review      *Policymakers and
management system is in                              implementers incorporate the
place.                                               findings of M&E efforts to
adjust QEFA
implementation.
- 39 -



-   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Project Components I     Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Increasing access     $637 million              Quarterly reports available   *Implementing agencies (
a. ECD centers                                     through PMR; annual         DAGE and DPRE) within
b. Primary school construction                      progress reports from      MEN quickly master Bank
c. Primary school renovation                       Coordinator; annual audit   and donor procedures.
and maintenance                                    reports; disbursement data
d. Creation of neighborhood                                                   *Regions and departments
middle schools                                                                 have sufficient personnel to
e. Multigrade teaching                                                         prepare for implementation
strategies                                                                     of subsequent phases of
f. Special education                                                           program.
g. Creation of neighborhood
secondary schools                                                             *Donors coordinate inputs.
h. Vocational Training Fund
i. Creation of Community
College network
j. Private higher education
2. Improving Quality      $243 million              Quarterly reports available
a. Early Childhood                                  through PMR; annual
Development                                         progress reports from
b. School improvement                               Coordinator; annual audit
program of small grants                            reports; disbursement data
c. Periurban initiatives
d. School and family reading
e. National languages
f. Textbooks and reading
materials--primary and middle
school
g. School health and nutrition
h. Special education
i. Dropout and repetition
initiatives
j. Adult basic education
k. Evaluation of student
learning
1. Teacher training
m. Textbooks and reading
materials--secondary school
n. Science and technology
o. Vocational training
3. Decentralized Management  $46 million            Quarterly reports available
a. Personnel management                             through PMR;
b. Decentralized planning                           annual progress reports from
c. Community participation                          Coordinator; annual audit
d. Policy, monitoring and                           reports; disbursement data
program evaluation
e. Financial management
-40 -



Annex 2: Project Description
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
The principal objective of the Quality Education For All Program (QEFA) is to establish the framework
and strategies for reaching universal primary education in Senegal. IDA will fund elements of the QEFA
related mainly to primary and secondary education. The emphasis will be to improve how children learn to
read and write. The QEFA will also help the Government to develop the investment strategies for other
activities, including science education and technical and vocational training.
Gender-specific issues: Parents identify lack of latrines and distance from home to school as particular
barriers to girls' schooling. The access component is designed to respond to these issues. Girls also have
far less access to learning than boys: fewer textbooks, higher dropout rates, less attention from teachers.
The quality component, which has sub-components dealing with grade repetition, textbooks, and teacher
practices, has been designed to address these issues. Experimentation and analysis throughout the first
phase will seek to identify gender-specific issues that may be addressed in subsequent phases. In addition,
the use of local languages, which is being introduced in Senegal through this program, has been reported in
other countries (Mali, for instance) to improve girls' confidence and participation, and to decrease their
repetition rates. It can also be expected that overall improvements in reading skills should have their
biggest impact on girls, since their repetition rates are currently much higher than those of boys. Given the
overall gender gap in literacy, the adult literacy program specifically targets females.
HIV/AIDS specific issues: Even though the prevalence rate of HIV/AIDS is very low in Senegal
compared to other countries in the region (1.7% according to UNAIDS), this disease is of great concern
within the education sector and will receive close attention throughout the life of this program. Age
disparities in sexual relationships appear to put adolescent girls at particular risk. Teachers may also
constitute an important vector for spread of the disease. Through this program, ways will be sought to use
education sector institutions and resources broadly as a tool to keep the epidemic from spreading. This
will be done in part by providing students with pertinent information on STD, HIV/AIDS and by means of
a school program that addresses risks related to non-protected practices and encourages open
communication. All project components will be considered for their potential to address these issues.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$637.00 million
Increasing Access to Education (IDA US$29.6M; Other including Government US$607.4M)
1.     Basic Education-Access
Objective. The objective of this component is to increase the coverage and equity of education. It will
expand primary and lower secondary school enrollment. An emphasis will be placed on enhancing the
participation of girls and boys living in under-served regions, as well as children with special learning
needs. Early childhood initiatives and multigrade classroom teaching will also be supported.
(i)    Construction of Early Childhood Development centers. A protocol will be prepared clarifying
the roles of the Ministry of Basic Education and the other ministries in carrying out ECD activities,
including those activities to take place at the local level. Support at the central level will focus on
establishing policy, norms, and training packages, and targeting IEC to vulnerable groups. At the
decentralized level, support will be given to capacity-building for NGOs and other private sector care
-41 -



providers in support of ongoing community-driven ECD. The construction of ECD centers will be financed
by the communities; IDA financing will be provided for equipment and materials. In Phase 1, this activity
will be largely financed by IDA.
Phase 1: The institutional framework and operational arrangements will be established. An overall policy
and strategies will be defined. Activities proposed within this framework will be tested in at least 5 regions
with 180 centers, and this pilot testing will be evaluated.
Phase 2: Based on lessons learned from Phase 1, the ECD program will be expanded to all regions in order
to implement the system nationwide and reach 5% of children aged 3-5 by the end of the second phase.
Phase 3: The national system will be consolidated and expanded in order to reach 10% of children aged 3 -5
by the end of the ten-year program.
(ii)    Construction of primary school classrooms. The goal of this sub-component is to increase the
number of primary and lower secondary places, with a focus on rural areas, and on accessibility for girls.
To help meet its goals for greater access, Senegal aims to build about 2000 primary classrooms per year
over the next ten years to enroll 100,000 new students per year (during subsequent years, the rhythm of
construction will be 1000 - 1500 a year indefinitely to keep pace with population growth and replacement
needs). The planning of the construction program will be decentralized and executed jointly by MEN's
decentralized entities (IA, IDEN) and others (decentralized collectivities, NGOs). Regional (PRDE) and
departmental (PDDE) educational development plans will serve as guidelines for annual budgeting of
construction investments. MEN (DCES, DPRE) will establish the norms and criteria for allocating
resources for construction in accordance with the school map, taking into account the development of
multigrade classrooms. Equity criteria aim at reducing differences among and within regions as well as
urban and rural disparities. They also aim to reduce the distance from home to school, which can be a
particular obstacle for girls' schooling. A Memorandum of Agreement between MIEN and decentralized
collectivities will serve as a sort of contract for implementing the above criteria. Contract management for
the construction program will be delegated to a specialized agency; the DCES will ensure quality control.
The government, the local collectivities, the private sector and about ten donors (see Table 8 of Annex 12)
will finance this sub-component (IDA will finance about 20%).
Phase 1: Effective implementation of a Memorandum of Agreement between MEN and the local
collectivities; construction of about 6000 primary school classrooms (of which 1000 with IDA financing)
and replacement of 600 temporary shelters; reduction of the maximum average difference between regions
in terms of classroom/school-age child from 64% in 1998-99 (see Table 9 of Annex 12) to 42% in 2003;
creation of a database showing average differences in classroom/school-age child within regions and within
departments, and between urban and rural settings, and reduction by one-third of these average differences;
creation of a geo-referenced school map leading to reduction by one-third between 2000 and 2003 of the
total number of homes located more than 4 km from the nearest school.
Phase 2: Construction of about 10,000 classrooms; decentralization of management of the school
construction program; reduction of the maximum average difference between regions in terms of
classroom/school-age child to 21% in 2007; reduction of the average difference in classroom/school-age
child within regions and within departments by 50% between 2003 and 2007; reduction by 50% between
2003 and 2007 of the total number of homes located more than 4 km from the nearest school.
Phase 3: Construction of 6,000 classrooms; reduction to 0 of the average difference in
classroom/school-age child within regions and within departments; reduction to 0 of the number of homes
-42 -



located at more than.4 km from the nearest school.
(iii)   Retrofitting of primary schools with latrines and wells, rehabilitation, and maintenance.
Support will be provided under the project for retrofitting primary schools with latrines and wells and for
renovation of run-down classrooms. Management of this program will be handled in a similar fashion to
new construction. Efficient maintenance programs will be established for all classrooms and equipment. In
Phase 1, this sub-component will be supported, for the most part, by IDA, ADB, and AFD.
Phase 1: Under IDA financing, approximately 1,800 classrooms will be rehabilitated, covering about 60%
of identified needs; 570 schools will be retrofitted with wells representing 22% of identified need and 1,080
schools will be retrofitted with latrines, representing 46% of identified need. Financed maintenance
programs will be tested in 3 regions.
Phase 2: Rehabilitation of the remaining 1,200 run-down classrooms; retrofitting with latrines and wells as
per identified needs remaining; nationwide implementation of the maintenance system tested during the first
phase.
Phase 3: Monitoring and improvement of the maintenance system.
(iv)   Development of neighborhood middle schools. To improve access, a new concept will be
introduced: that of the neighborhood middle school. This type of school will be designed to serve a smaller
catchment area in low population density zones (which are also the target zones for expansion of
multigrade schooling), thus improving access for rural students as well as for girls. Teacher training will
be adapted so that teachers can cover a wider range of subject areas, and a range of neighborhood middle
school design alternatives will be tested. In Phase 1, ADB, IDB, OPEC and AFD will support this
sub-component.
Phase 1: Regions and areas will be selected to start the expansion of neighborhood middle schools and to
test the new concept. Of a total of 200 middle school classrooms to be built each year, at least 50% will be
in neighborhood middle schools. In addition, about 300 run-down middle school classrooms will be
rehabilitated. Funded maintenance programs will be established for all classrooms in the regions selected.
The private sector is expected to build about 100 classrooms annually.
Phase 2: Continuation of the development of neighborhood middle schools to reach a 35% enrollment rate.
The maximum difference between regions in terms of enrollment rate will be reduced by one-half from
2003 through 2007 , as will differences within regions and within departments, and between urban and
rural settings.
Phase 3: Continuation of the development of neighborhood middle schools to reach a 50% enrollment rate
and a 0% difference in terms of enrollment rate between regions, among departments within a given region,
and between urban and rural settings.
(v)    Multigrade teaching strategies. A key goal of the PDEF is to eliminate all incomplete primary
school cycles. This will require a major effort to expand the use of multigrade classrooms. Current
teachers will receive in-service training; a multigrade teaching module will be added to pre-service training
courses for new teachers. Additional materials and equipment will be provided for use in multigrade
classrooms. In Phase 1, the NDF and IDA will be the main donors supporting this sub-component.
Phase 1: Preparation of a multigrade teaching module for pre-service training in the EFIs and for in-service
-43 -



training. Implementation of pre-service training in the EEls and in-service training for 1000 teachers, of
whom about 250 are already teaching in multigrade settings. Training of IDENs to manage multigrade
programs and pilot testing in the following IDENs: Kaffrine (150 schools with incomplete cycles),
Tivaouane (99 schools), Mbour (91 schools), Bambey (85 schools) and Diourbel (84 schools). By the end
of the first phase, the system for development of multigrade teaching will be tested and evaluated, and the
strategy for going to scale nation-wide in the second phase will be prepared and approved. At the end of
the phase, the number of children attending schools offering a complete six-year cycle will increase 64% to
75%.
Phase 2: Nation-wide implementation of the strategy for expanding multigrade teaching in low population
density zones. The number of students attending schools offering a complete six-year cycle will increase
from 75% in 2003 to 90% in 2007.
Phase 3: The percentage of schools offering a complete cycle will reach 100 % at the end of the Ten-Year
Program.
(vi)   Special Needs Education (SNE) This intervention will provide equipment for the existing
Special Needs Education centers to be used as resource centers geared toward integrating children with
special needs into regular school programs. It will be further aligned with the small grants program (see
below) to provide modest financing in support of schools receiving SNE students. The NDF is the main
donor financing this sub-component.
Phase 1: Identification of special education needs, strategy, monitoring and evaluation system; testing of the
strategy in a pilot program.
Phase 2: Implementation of the strategy on a modest scale with reference to lessons learned from the pilot
program; monitoring and evaluation.
Phase 3: Nationwide implementation of the program, based in part on information obtained through the
monitoring and evaluation system.
2.    Secondary General, Technical and Professional-Access
(i)    Construction and rehabilitation of classrooms and development of small-scale rural secondary
schools. Expansion of the general secondary level is, for the most part, being reserved for the second and
third phases of the program. The objective of the first phase will be to relieve congestion in classrooms of
existing schools; to rehabilitate run-down buildings; and to develop an efficient maintenance system. ADB,
OPEC, and the Saudi Fund are the key donors for the first phase.
Phase 1: For the public sector, the first phase will be limited to construction of 30 new secondary school
classrooms and rehabilitation of about 165 classrooms. A new model of small scale rural secondary school
will also be developed along the lines of the neighborhood middle school concept.
Phase 2: This phase will see the start-up of expansion of secondary education within the constraints
imposed by the long term financial framework: construction of about 100 classrooms in the public sector.
It is expected that enrollment in the private sector will reach 48% of that of the public sector.
Phase 3: The controlled expansion of secondary schooling will continue, reaching an enrollment rate of
15% by the end of the Ten-Year Program.
-44 -



(ii)   Technical and vocational training. Expansion of technical secondary education and vocational
training is reserved for the second and third phases of the program, similar to plans for general secondary
education. This is due to the need to develop a new policy for the sub-sector, and to identify strategies and
new financing mechanisms before planning an investment program. The new policy will be geared to
meeting the needs of the labor market, and to clearly defining Government and private sector roles in terms
of comparative benefits. As for general secondary schooling, the development of this sub-sector will
require greater participation of the private sector. ADB will provide support for the first phase.
Phase 1: Limited development and consolidation of technical training by extension (9 classes) and
rehabilitation (19 classes) in existing technical secondary schools; preparation of an investment plan that
fits the new policy and strategy (see quality component).
Phase 2: Start-up of the implementation of the investment plan prepared during the first phase.
Phase 3: Follow-up on the implementation of the investment plan taking into account lessons learned from
the monitoring and evaluation mechanism put in place under the quality component.
3.    Higher Education-Access
Over the first phase of the PDEF, support for increasing access to higher education is being provided
largely through the ongoing PAES credit financed by IDA. During subsequent phases of the PDEF, it is
expected that such support will be provided within the context of the successor credits to the QEFA. The
government's strategy to increase access to higher education includes creation of a network of community
colleges (CUR), and greater support for private provision of higher education. Investments in the first
phase are financed by the Government, while IDA will finance feasibility studies within the framework of
the PAES (Cr. 2872-SE) and will pursue a dialogue on strategies to increase support for the private sector.
(i)    Creation of a network of community colleges (CUR).
Phase 1: The first phase of the PDEF will coincide with the second half of the PAES project during which
the extension the Central Library of UCAD and the rehabilitation of the Thies Polytechnic School will be
completed. A feasibility study for financing the Bambey community college will be prepared. The
construction of this CUR is planned for the first phase of the PDEF. IDA will finance the feasibility study
for creation of the community college network.
Phase 2 & 3: Construction and equipment of the CURs for several regions, based on results of the
feasibility study.
(ii)    Greater support for private provision of higher education.
Phase 1: The role of the private sector in providing increased access to higher education will continue to
grow. Over the course of the first phase of the PDEF, Government will implement the recommendations of
the national seminar held by MEN in 1999 with private sector participation. It is anticipated that student
enrollments in private higher education will increase from 14% in 1999 to 19% in 2003.
Phase 2 &3: Follow-up on the dialogue with the private sector for implementing incentives to increased
provision of private higher education. It is expected that private higher education will represent about 23%
of total enrollment by the end of Phase 2, and that by the end of the PDEF, more than 26% of higher
-45 -



education students will be studying in private sector institutions.
Project Component 2 - US$243.00 million
Improving the quality of schooling (IDA US$12.75M; Other including Government US$230.25M)
Objective. The objective of this component is to improve access to learning, particularly for primary and
lower secondary education. This is done through a series of innovations, with an emphasis on the teaching
of reading, as well as on the conditions, strategies and policies which support learning.
1.    Basic Education-Quality
Achieving universal primary education requires an improvement in quality and efficiency. Improvements in
the quality of teaching and learning will work in favor of UPE by increasing demand for schooling and
lowering repetition rates. They will also reduce the dropout that occurs when children take too long to
finish primary schooling (a particularly acute problem for girls). The key tool for effecting changes at the
classroom level will be a program of school improvement and staff development based on the award of
small grants. All QEFA initiatives will be analyzed as a function of their impact on what happens at the
school level.
(i)    Early Childhood Development. Interventions in support of Early Childhood Development
(ECD) increase the percentage of children entering primary school at the appropriate age, as well as
subsequent persistence in schooling. Emphasis is given to quality control and ensuring that ECD activities
become an integral part of the transition between home and school. Children in particularly vulnerable
circumstances, including girls, have until now received less opportunity for this sort of support. This
sub-component will support the development of community-driven, scaleable initiatives. A national
commission has been created to coordinate these activities. It is managed by the DEPEE, with
representatives from the MEN, the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Family. This sub-component is
financed by the Nordic Development Fund, ADB, and IDA, and could also receive UNICEF support.
Phase 1: The first phase of the program will be dedicated to developing and testing models and materials
for low-cost activities and programs at the community level, using action research. An integrated approach
will be developed to include nutrition, health, cognitive and psycho-social development, as well as family
literacy strategies emphasizing the transition to primary schooling. Support at the central level will focus
on establishing policy, norms, and training packages, and targeting IEC (Information, Education,
Communication) to vulnerable groups. At the decentralized level, support will be given to
capacity-building for NGOs and other private sector care providers in support of ongoing
community-driven ECD. The new integrated model will be tested in 180 centers to be created. The
training of 450 instructors to be hired by communities will be done by the IDENs, who will in turn receive
training as preparation for this task. The pilot testing will be evaluated and lessons learned will be
incorporated into a separate manual of procedures that will be developed at the end of this phase for use in
Phase 2.
Phase 2: During this phase, promising ECD initiatives from Phase I will be taken to scale through
collaboration with a wide range of actors and development programs (PDDE). The program aims to reach
5% of children aged 3-5 by the end of Phase 2. In addition, linkages between ECD and local collectivities
will be strengthened as a part of the government's program to reach universal prirnary enrollment in Phase
3.
Phase 3: The third phase of activities will focus on strengthening the sustainability and replicability of
-46 -



successful ECD approaches. Given the increasingly decentralized management of the education sector, an
increased emphasis will be placed on quality control by the IDENs and on ensuring that ECD activities
become an integral part of the transition to primary schooling. It is expected that 10% of children aged 3-5
will be reached by 2010.
(ii)    A school-based small grants program for primary and lower secondary school improvement
and staff development. This initiative will be designed to strengthen the capacity of schools and teachers
to implement the pedagogical reforms of the PDEF. One of the key lessons learned from the recent FDS
experience is the importance of intensive follow-up, and timely availability of funds at the school level.
Annual grants will be allocated to individual schools and managed by a school council composed of the
pedagogical team and parents' representatives. NGOs could be recruited to support the procurement and
distribution of goods to meet identified school need$. The grants programs may also include training
programs for teachers based on training needs expressed by the teachers themselves. The process of
developing the school-based small grants program will help to develop a shared understanding of what
constitutes a good school and provide a basis for dialogue among all stakeholders (administrators, teachers,
parents, pupils, community) on how to improve the quality of teaching, learning and leadership. This
process will be the main tool for effecting changes in school-level practices, and will help develop
consensus around one key objective: each teacher is responsible for the success of her or his own students.
This initiative should help shift the communication and support patterns within the sector, with teachers
defining their training and resource needs, and the system reorganizing itself in support of those needs. The
overall long-term objective is to gradually give each school an operational capacity for pedagogic
management, leading to a transfer to the schools of a portion of the MEN operating budget. The grants
program will complement other initiatives supported under the PDEF: the introduction of local languages;
the new method of book distribution; implementing a comprehensive school-based reading strategy;
decentralizing responsibility for teacher management; teaching methods for multigrade classrooms in rural
areas; and teaching methods for large and crowded urban classes. The school improvement projects for
secondary schools have the same objectives, with an additional goal of implementing cost recovery as per
the PDEF financial framework, and managing these resources. In Phase 1, this sub-component will be
supported by, among others, ADB, FAC, AFD, CIDA, and IDA.
Phase 1: The goal of the first phase is to: (a) develop a manual of procedures (for use by all participating
donors) for a competitive small grants program financing primary school improvement initiatives and staff
training; (b) implement the proposed system in three test regions; establish school committees, train IDEN
personnel, teachers, and parents' association representatives and inform community members; (c) for the
test regions, create and train juries within the IDENs to appraise proposals, and juries within the LMs to take
responsibility for final selection; (d) test the system; (e) evaluate the results in comparing the pilot school
results with results in control group schools; and (f) draw the appropriate lessons from the testing
experience, disseminate the results and develop instruments for the extension of the program in Phase 2.
Additional financing as appropriate will be provided within the test region IDENs for an existing small
grants program at the lower secondary level. For the secondary school improvement projects, results of cost
recovery will also be evaluated. It is expected that by the end of Phase 1, 80% of primary schools within
participating IDENs will have submitted school improvement proposals, and that 400 of these will have
been financed and implemented.
Phase 2: The program will be taken to scale nationally, with program management decentralized to the L4
level. Management training for school-level committees will be extended to all schools. At the end of
Phase 2, it is expected that 50% of schools will have succeeded in managing a school improvement project
and will become eligible for the sustainable, decentralized financing mechanism to be put in place in Phase
3.
- 47 -



Phase 3: Decentralization of budget management to the school level would be extended throughout the
system.
(iii)   Dakar peri-urban initiatives. With more than 75% of students in double shift classrooms (CDF)
in the Dakar area, it is obvious that all strategies to improve quality and efficiency must take into account
the special needs of double shift classrooms. These areas continue to grow and teaching conditions
continue to worsen, justifying a construction and support program aiming at relieving congestion and
improving quality, in part by reducing the number of students per classroom. The social impact of such an
intervention is important in terms of urban development, social stability, economic development and the
reduction of poverty. AFD will support this sub-component.
Phase 1: A strategy and feasibility study, definition of norms, preparation of standardized models for
construction, school mapping criteria adapted to densely populated urban settings. Implementation of a
construction program and related support.
Phase 2 & 3: Implementation and evaluation.
(iv)   School/family reading initiatives. The importance of reading for meaning is well recognized as a
key to reinforcing literacy and numeracy skills, "learning to learn", problem solving and teaching social
skills. The development of reading ability is also a long process of indirect preparation within which the
early childhood environment is crucial. Children in impoverished, illiterate settings are at a disadvantage
when entering first grade. They are schooled in French, a language over which they have no oral control.
Reading also involves learning concepts about print, which most children only confront when they enter
formal schooling. This sub-component will help to improve students' reading and understanding skills (in
contrast to mechanical reading skills) by supporting three complementary elements: (i) a relevant reading
curriculum that reinforces reading through all subject areas; (ii) schools and teachers capable of delivering
an appropriate curriculum in a multilingual context (e.g. relevant book- and story-based teaching and
reading practices); and (iii) school and home environments that provide mutually reinforcing reading
opportunities for children, teachers and families. This initiative will support an active reading materials
development program which produces books and reading materials for primary school children in both
French and local languages to enrich the reading curriculum. Issues regarding the content, readability of
books and reading materials, pedagogy and the language of instruction will all be addressed. The program
will include indigenous material which will be more accessible to children in poor and disadvantaged areas.
National authors will be identified and books with locally relevant content developed. An inventory of
relevant existing materials will also be established. These will be adapted and used to develop high quality
curriculum materials. Local publishers will be encouraged to publish Africa-centered texts reflecting the
experience of local communities with which children and their families can identify. In this way, the
program will provide reading materials to audiences beyond those in the classroom thereby reinforcing the
reading environment. The NDF and IDA will provide support to Phase 1 of this sub-component.
Phase 1: The initiative will be tested during this phase in a limited number of schools: a small collection of
20-30 reading books, some of them in local languages, will be purchased by the MIEN and made available
in primary classrooms in 10-15 schools in all of the 41 IDENs. Teacher training will be provided to
teachers in the test schools, focusing on book-based and story-based teaching practices, to support reading
in school each day using multiple approaches: shared reading; guided silent reading and writing; and peer
tutoring or paired reading. Pupils will be encouraged to check out books from the classroom collection,
read them at home and report the story to the class. This will be part of an initiative to help teachers
individualize instruction. The criteria for evaluating this experience will be elaborated, and the pilot test
- 48 -



will be assessed by comparing results of students in control group schools. The NDF and IDA will finance
the development and implementation of the reading strategy.
Phase 2: The evaluation of the pilot testing will be disseminated and, on this basis, each IDEN will develop
an action plan for taking the school reading initiative to scale, with all primary school classrooms to
participate in the approach. Methods for increasing the involvement of parents and communities will be
explored and the proposals developed will be evaluated for implementation in the third phase.
Phase 3: The reading program will be extended to include a parental/family literacy initiative.
(v)    Introduction of national languages for initial literacy training and transition to French. The
program supports the introduction of teaching and learning in the mother tongue (national languages) in the
early grades of primary schooling to facilitate learning in general and the transition to French. This will be
done on an experimental basis in selected schools. The curriculum, materials and instructional time will be
revised accordingly. Curriculum revision will support the development of textbooks in local languages.
This will involve greater participation of teachers and representatives of civil society such as parents,
NGOs, and religious organizations. The new curriculum will be developed in three key subject areas
(reading, math, and science) at the rate of one grade level per year. Curriculum development will take into
account a strategy for shifting from the mother tongue of the child to the use of French over a period of
three to four years. Experience elsewhere has shown that such programs can significantly reduce grade
repetition in the early years of schooling and improve overall learning of basic skills. This approach will be
complemented by the development of textbooks and reading materials in local languages, along with a
training program for teachers that emphasizes individualized, child-centered approaches. This
sub-component will carry out pilot activities in phases guided by the national literacy program, which has
successfully implemented, since 1995, adult literacy programs in six languages: Joola, Mandinka, Pulaar,
Sereer, Soninke, and Wolof. A strong evaluation component will be built into this program, in order to
allow quick learning and flexibility in developing a sustainable strategy to go to scale nationally. In the
first phase, the NDF, CIDA, and IDA will support this sub-component.
Phase 1: A pilot program will begin in the six languages for some 400 classrooms. The breakdown by
IDEN and by language will be determined by DPRE and DEPEE on the basis of a linguistic survey and
teacher availability, following a national orientation seminar. At the same time, similar experiences from
other countries will be studied and the results and findings will be used as inputs for this sub-component.
The sequence of developing the new curriculum one grade level per year will allow development of the
curriculum for the first three grade levels in the first phase, and to evaluate implementation in the pilot
schools for the first two grade levels. The teacher training program will be prepared and implemented
following the same sequence. During the period in which the curriculum is being prepared, the preparation
teams will compile a set of existing teaching/learning materials (from Senegal and elsewhere) in the target
languages, and will prepare provisional materials. These will be duplicated on a small scale and will be
used during the test period in the pilot schools prior to the production of textbooks (see paragraph (vi)
below). The pilot testing will be evaluated at the end of Phase I by comparing results in pilot schools with
those in control group schools.
Phase 2: Based on the results of first-phase evaluation, the practical steps to take the program to national
scale will be prepared. The curriculum will be developed for Grades 4 and above, and the curriculum will
be reviewed for overall coherency. The program will be extended to the other schools countrywide for
Grades I and 2, along with the procurement of new textbooks (see para. (vi) above). At the same time, the
curriculum for Grades 3 and above will continue to be introduced and tested in the pilot schools.
Evaluation of the effectiveness of mother tongue instruction in promoting learning will be carried out for
-49 -



Grades 3 and above following the previously used methodology. For Grades I and 2, the methodology will
be adapted to the expansion strategy.
Phase 3: Continued scaling up to the national level of curriculum tested in Phase 2, as new textbooks are
produced and made available. Development of supplemental materials and in-service training. Ongoing
evaluation.
'vi)   Development of a school-level textbook and reading materials loan program. This
sub-component aims at improving the availability and use of textbooks and reading materials in primary
and middle schools throughout the country. A textbook loan system will be put in place for secondary
schooling; books will be free of charge to primary school students. A multiple-title system (several
different series per subject area) to enrich the curriculum will be developed. Publishers will be invited to
propose textbook series based on curricula and national standards to be developed by INEADE with
DEPEE and DEMSG input. The best books will be approved for use by a national commission established
for this purpose. Commissions will be established in each IDEN to determine which individual series will
be used. The approach should lead to competition that will improve quality, add diversity to the system,
and generally improve the curriculum, service delivery and cost-effectiveness. It will also allow INEADE
to re-focus on its pedagogic mission. I1NEADE will develop training programs for teachers in the use of the
books. The textbook and reading materials loan program is designed to promote subject-specific learning
as well as overall demand for reading. NDF, KIW and IDA will support MEN for this sub-component.
Phase 1: First, existing books will be reprinted and distributed from the first year of the program. Second,
a system of book stock management will be put in place to assure the availability and effective distribution
of 3 books per primary and secondary student. Third, the new textbook process will be started: (i) training
of INEADE personnel for implementation of the new strategy, (ii) training of teachers, along with
information provided to parents, (iii) publishers' associations will be informed, (iv) bidding documents will
be prepared for selection of titles (2 or 3 titles per subject area and by grade level) on the basis of an open
competition among editors using the curriculum produced under the above sub-component, (v) selection of
titles, (vi) acquisition of a small number (about 2000) of sample books, (vii) shipment of the sample series
to the IDEN, and training of the IDEN and the teachers regarding the methods to be used for selecting a
textbook series from among the several available series, (viii) choice of titles by the IDEN, with
consolidation for procurement purposes by the DAGE, and (ix) completion of book orders. The tentative
calendar foresees that, during the first phase, the process can be completed up to stage (ix) for Grade 1
books for which the curriculum will be ready one year into the program (see sub-component (v) above).
The process will be less advanced for the textbooks at other grade levels because of the time it will take to
prepare the new curriculum. During the first phase, book storage warehouses will also be built in the
IDEN.
Phase 2: Implementation of local choice and multiple title system at the IDEN level, book orders and
shipment to the IDENs, distribution to the schools. At the end of Phase 2, it is expected that all of the
books for Grades 1-3, based on the new curriculum and the multiple choice system, will be in the schools.
Follow-up of the availability and use of books by the students to ensure that the ratio of 3 books per
student is respected..
Phase 3: Production and distribution of the new books following the new curriculum and the multiple
choice for the upper levels of primary schooling. Follow-up on the availability and use of books by the
students.
(vii)  Increase student learning capacity through a school-based health and nutrition program.
- 50 -



Senegal has never had a preventive health program in its schools. There are two strong reasons for
developing such a program: (i) students in good health tend to have better rates of attendance and
achievement, and (ii) health lessons learned in school can have a substantial impact on later health
practices. The program will develop a health education component based on a culture- and age-appropriate
life skills curriculum. Particular emphasis will be given to reproductive and sexual health, including FGM.
Long-term impact is expected to be greatest for later health practices; this has been shown to be
particularly true for women, who are typically responsible for most health decisions in families. This
sub-component will support pilot activities to promote such a program by focusing on health and nutrition
interventions that are low cost and easy to deliver. In the first phase, this sub-component will be financed
by IDA and will be paired with UNICEF activities in this area.
Phase 1: This phase will: (i) put in place appropriate institutional arrangements between the Ministries of
Education and Health,; (ii) develop a database on school health in order to identify the
deficiencies/parasites for students by region; (iii) develop mechanisms for the micronutrient supplement and
anti-worming program; (iv) prepare teaching materials and a family education program; (v) develop
criteria, mechanisms and evaluation tools for the pilot operation; (vi) choose a region for implementation of
the pilot operation; (vii) implement the program in the test region; (viii) evaluate the results of the pilot
operation and draw lessons for the following phase. The first phase will also see development of an
anti-STD/HIV/AIDS campaign, with particular focus on adolescent girls.
Phase 2: Based on lessons from the first phase, the program, the mechanisms and the tools will be adapted
for extension of the program into the other 9 regions. Follow-up of the evaluation of the impact of the
school health initiative on access and learning quality in the test region and extension to the other 9 regions.
Adjustment of the teaching curriculum to incorporate school health.
Phase 3: The family education program will be taken to scale, along with development of additional
initiatives: malaria, tobacco, etc. Study of the possibility of developing the school health module at the
secondary school level for the follow-up ten-year program (after 2010).
(viii)  Providing Special Needs Education. Children with special learning needs have generally received
scant attention in the Senegalese education system. Yet investments in the needs of these children can be
among the most cost-effective investments a system can make, helping them to become fully contributing
members of society. As Senegal moves toward Universal Primary Enrollment, it has taken the position that
it will seek to provide mainstreaming experiences for its special education students to the extent that this is
feasible. As such, the program fits well with the pedagogic shift to focus on the basic learning needs of
individual students. The strategy will include developing proactive approaches to identifying and providing
support for various marginalized groups of children, including those with physical and mental handicaps,
as well as students who are exceptionally gifted. In Phase 1, NDF will finance this sub-component.
Phase 1: Support will be provided for: (i) a national study including a survey on prevalence and existing
resources in this area; (ii) policy and strategy development focusing on the establishment of inclusive
models by which children with special needs can be integrated into existing schools; (iii) targeting of a
small number of schools with the appropriate characteristics for testing the strategy (demand, resources);
(iv) training programs to be provided for teacher trainers, along with an awareness campaign and
mainstreaming SNE coordinators; (v) a pilot test of a small grants program to finance "inclusion project"
schools; and (vi) equipment for existing SNE centers which will be reoriented to be used as resource
centers, geared toward integrating children with special needs into regular school programs. It is expected
that the program and the pilot testing will be developed in collaboration with NGO groups, occupational
groups in the field of disability, as well as organizations and councils on disability.
- 51 -



Phase 2: Gradual expansion of the number of schools preparing "inclusion projects" acceptable for
financing; evaluation of implementation of these inclusion projects; dissemination of success stories.
Development of specific curriculum modules and modules for pre- and in-service training for teachers, and
training of EFI personnel in the teaching of these modules.
Phase 3: It is expected that this phase will allow for consolidating the SNE policy program and taking it to
scale nationally.
(ix)   Special initiatives targeting repetition and dropout. Achieving full primary enrollnent will
require considerably increased student throughput. This will be helped in part by improvements in quality
as outlined above. However, it will also require a change in behavior by teachers and, in the short term at
least, after-school and advocacy programs. It is proposed that for each student who fails a year, teachers be
asked to develop an individualized education plan that will then be approved by the principal and discussed
with the child's parents. The year-round after-school program would involve hands-on learning
experiences, one-on-one tutoring, enrichment activities in reading, math and other academic subjects, as
well as mentor relationships. Parents would also receive training to be advocates for their children's
education, sponsor events, make learning materials, read to children, and teach special interest classes. In
addition, a vacation period study program will be established at the community/IDEN level. Students
successfully completing this program will be able to go on to the next grade without repeating the year.
These initiatives will be complemented and reinforced by other measures including: limiting repetition rates
between classes and cycles, establishing learning standards and training teachers in achievement testing.
There will be monitoring to assess the impact of after-school tutoring on pupil performance, retention and
repetition. IDA will support MEN for this sub-component.
Phase 1:. This phase will be devoted to testing the initiative in a very limited number of schools and IDENs.
It is planned initially that there be one rural and one urban IDEN. This will involve: (i) developing very
simple protocols for each teacher to apply in his class for each student in danger of failing the year; (ii)
developing methods to evaluate the pilot testing; (iii) identifying the schools to take part in the pilot test;
(iv) training the school directors; (v) in each school, the suggested activities will be carried out by the
teachers; (vi) evaluating the results, by comparing pilot schools to control group schools, drawing
conclusions and preparing the Phase 2 program.
Phase 2: Special initiatives targeting repetitions and drop-outs will be progressively taken to national scale
depending on evaluation results. The rate of extension will depend on the type of activity involved. For
example, the extension of the remedial program during the vacation period will take advantage of the
existence of a dynamic private sector in the urban areas which could play an important support role for the
public system.
Phase 3: The program will be functioning country-wide by the end of Phase 3. More emphasis will be put
on the impact of girls' repetitions and drop-outs. In addition to the continuation of the program described
above, a particular emphasis will be put on the integration of these initiatives in certain aspects of special
education, targeting the implementation of programs to better individualize teaching and particularly those
children who have specific learning problems.
(x)    Adult basic education. This sub-component supports extension of the national literacy program,
aiming to reduce illiteracy rates by 5% per year in the age group 15 to 49 years, of whom 75% should be
female. The component follows the government strategy of contracting put in place successfully since
1995 and which consists of relying on private providers for literacy programs (the number of such
- 52 -



providers has increased from 80 to 400 between 1995 and 2000). MEN will assure partial financing,
steering, coordination and evaluation. The sub-component is designed around two strategic principles: (a)
continuation of the existing Female Literacy Project (PAPF), PAPA, PADEN and PAIS until 2001; but (b)
from the year 2000, supporting actions that will progressively create a more cohesive program approach
and also lead to decentralization of the non-formal sector; both of these should be fully effective by the end
of Phase 1. Administrative coordination will be assured by the national Directorate of Literacy and Basic
Education (DAEB), and by increasing uniformity in procedures and unit costs, and the use of a common
Procedures Manual across the literacy sub-programs, regardless of how they are financed. Since 1995,
CIDA, KIW, and IDA have supported the government, which also provides a substantial contribution.
These donors, as well as ADB and UNESCO will support the first phase of this sub-component.
Phase I: This phase has the objective of following up on activities handled previously under separate
projects, by bringing the various literacy programs together with common procedures and a faster
implementation rate. The local collectivities will be integrated into the process as institutional partners,
while keeping the same general approach by which private sector operators provide the literacy training.
This phase will support the strengthening management capacity at deconcentrated and decentralized levels
for the eventual transfer of responsibilities from the center. Actions include: (a) in-depth study of the
financing mechanism of the PAIS, and a baseline analysis of the entire non-formal education sector; (b)
defining modalities for managing funds destined for literacy and other non-formal education programs; (c)
refining indicators to monitor and evaluate skills and competencies acquired through literacy programs; (d)
financing operations which start up in the year 2000 (6th cohort of the PAPF) and follow the Manual of
Procedures for the new integrated program (functional and post-literacy); (e) strengthening the DAEB to
achieve a more unified administration based on the faire-faire approach and participatory methodologies;
(f) training personnel at decentralized levels of the Ministry in charge of Basic Education, and private
service providers; (g) monitoring and evaluating implementation of the program approach across all
partners; (h) decentralizing management in the non-formal sector, and (i) defining the role of the new
Directorate for the Promotion of National Languages. At the same time, the government programs will, in
Phase 1, provide literacy training for 140,000 persons per year (50,000 of whom will be trained with IDA
financing).
Phase 2: Adjusting approaches and financing in order to eradicate illiteracy by the end of the third phase.
Consolidating progress toward the program approach, and articulating policies and priorities for the adult
literacy program in relation to the universal primary education goals of the PDEF, particularly in relation
to the non-formal community schools (Ecoles Communautaire de Base -- ECB).
Phase 3: The literacy training program is expected to evolve towards a program of continuous adult
education. Illiteracy would, by the end of this phase, be largely eliminated.
(xi)   Assessment of students' learning. Two complementary approaches to assessing the performance
of schools will be implemented: self-evaluation and external evaluation. First, the self-evaluation is
designed to complement the school-based grants program, in that it will enable teachers to appraise their
own performance, as well as that of pupils, by providing training in learning assessment. This is a key
strategy in building up the teaching profession through in-service teacher training (see following
sub-component xii). It will provide school personnel with the internal capacity and know-how to assess the
strengths and weaknesses of their teaching program and to adapt schooling practices on that solid
foundation. A shared understanding of school performance will provide a basis for dialogue among all
stakeholders. Second, the development of capacity for a standardized external evaluation will consist of
putting in place a permanent system for assessing educational progress. This will be on an annual
sampling basis, looking at various levels of primary and secondary schooling (Grades 4, 6 and 9, for
- 53 -



example). The system will build on work done under the PASEC, SNERS and MLA initiatives. A standard
assessment system will improve decision-making, promote appropriate interventions that enhance student
learning, and foster accountability over educational outputs. In the first phase, this sub-component will be
financed largely by IDA. Confemen, UNICEF and UNESCO will continue to finance regional evaluation
activities undertaken through the PASEC and the MLA.
Phase l: First, the development of the internal evaluation system will begin during the first phase with a
pilot program in a limited number of classrooms. The DEPEE will: (i) develop pre-service and in-service
training modules, (ii) select the pilot program schools, (iii) train teachers in methods of internal evaluation,
and (iv) evaluate the pilot program by measuring changes in classroom practice. Second, as regards
standardized external evaluation, the first phase will consist of developing and testing the instruments. To
that end, the Ministry of Education will: (i) establish the necessary institutional arrangements among
DPRE, INEADE, DEPEE, and DEMSG; (ii) analyze the curricula in reading, writing and math; (iii)
develop evaluation instruments for Grades 4 and 9; (iv) experiment with the use of instruments; (v) analyze
results and adjust its evaluation instruments; (vi) train teachers and administer Grades 4 and 9 tests to a
sample of students; and (vii) analyze the results of the test.
Phase 2: First, the system of internal evaluation will be extended to all primary school teachers; this
experience will be monitored and evaluated. Second, the standardized assessment of student achievement
will be extended to Grade 6. The Ministry of Education will also launch a dissemination strategy of
external evaluation results that will target central policy-makers, regional education officers, local elected
officials, principals, teachers and parents. Support materials and activities will be developed to address
specific pedagogical concerns identified by the evaluation.
Phase 3: During phase 3, the assessment system will conduct follow-on evaluations at the same grade levels
to appraise the progress experienced in student achievement.
(xii)   Development of a unified teacher training strategy. This component will develop and
implement a unified teacher training strategy in support of the new contract teacher/volunteer recruitment
policy. This will include a substantively changed role for the four teacher training schools (EFI) and the
ENS in line with changes in curriculum and teacher recruitment policy. Close links between the EFIs and
the school improvement program (FDS), as well as pedagogical reform of the ENS (such as polyvalence for
middle-school teachers) will be promoted. Pre- and in-service training programs will be developed for
teachers, school directors and inspectors with an explicit focus on training in learning assessment. It is
expected that this will include distance learning. FAC will continue to provide support for teacher training.
IDA will also support the first phase of this component.
Phase 1: During the first phase, the operation of EFI will be organized in order to ensure a homogeneous
pre-service training for all new teachers. The number of teachers trained in the EFIs will increase from 500
to 2,500 per year, with two cohorts of 1,250 teachers each. Equipment will be installed in the EFIs in
support of this program. New pre-service training modules will be developed to take into account the
enrollment rate in EFIs, and the new pedagogical dimensions introduced by PDEF (multigrade, school
grants, reading initiatives, local languages), and will include practice teaching in the laboratory schools. In
this context, the links between the EFIs and their laboratory schools will be evaluated and strengthened as
needed. Pre-service training modules for secondary teachers' training (training in science education,
polyvalent teachers for neighborhood middle schools) will be developed during the first phase. Policy
measures for the new operation of EFIs and ENS will be prepared and adopted prior to the end of the first
phase. An in-service teacher training system based on the initiative of teachers for: identifying their
training needs, appropriate sources for training and the organization of training will be studied and
- 54 -



developed during this phase. A system for evaluating the capacity and performance of the EFIs and the
laboratory schools will be designed and implemented. IDA and FAC will support the MEN during this
phase.
Phase 2: During the second phase, all new teachers will receive pre-service training within EFIs, which
will have been readapted for this purpose by the end of the first phase. A feedback mechanism will ensure
that the results of the evaluation system put in place for the component (x) above will be used by the EFIs
and ENS to correct deficiencies in teachers' performance that can be addressed through pre-service training
and/or improved in-service training. The in-service training system will be tested within several regions to
ensure that it is flexible, responsive, and teacher-driven.
Phase 3: Continuation of the feedback mechanism on pre-service and in-service training based on results
provided by the learning assessment system and teachers' self-evaluation. Development of in-service
training system on the basis of lessons learned from the test experience with a flexible, responsive,
teacher-driven approach.
2.     Secondary General, Technical and Professional - Quality
(i)    Textbooks. A rental system will be established. Textbook choice will be provided for as under
the primary school textbook initiative described above.
Phase 1: Designing of a loan system, implementation and testing of this system in X regions, auditing and
evaluation of the system, readjustment of the system and proposal for expansion.
Phase 2 & 3: Development of the system on national scale, evaluation.
(ii)    Science education and technology development. The implementation of quality science teaching,
accessible to all, remains an elusive problem in Senegal. At present, science teaching in Senegal is based
on the use of resource centers which are of limited access to most students. This limitation will be even
more acute with the development of neighborhood middle schools. It has been agreed that during the first
phase of the program, a module based on the use of science kits will be developed and tested in
combination with the FAC-financed support to the existing resource centers in order to develop a strategy
for reaching all schools. Based on lessons learned in the first phase, implementation of the selected science
education delivery mechanism will be scaled during subsequent phases. In addition, the introduction of new
computer technologies under the PDRH2 with the WorldLinks program will be consolidated and extended.
FAC, ADB and IDA will support this sub-component.
Phase 1: Selection of intervention areas for kits strategy, elaboration of teaching modules, provision of kits,
training of a group of teachers for testing, and testing in a pilot area to be determined; comparative
evaluation of this area with others, lessons learned. Equipment and training of teachers in new technologies
for 50% of middle schools. Completion of a study and implementation of an action plan for more intensive
use of Internet throughout the country on the basis of wireless third-generation communication technologies
using very high frequencies.
Phase 2: Development of a national scale strategy if the pilot testing with science kits provides good results,
or development of an alternative strategy if it fails. Equipment and training of teachers in new technologies
and related teaching methods for 100% of middle schools. Development of pedagogic methods based on
use of Internet. Completion of a test of wireless linkages between middle schools and secondary schools
and pilot testing of primary schools in the test region.
- 55 -



Phase 3: Generalization of the initial science kit strategy if successful or development of an alternative
strategy if it fails. Extension and development of teaching methods based on use of Internet. National
coverage using third-generation communication technologies.
(iii)   Vocational and technical education. The first phase of the PDEF will focus on preparation of a
revised policy for the sub-sector based on new demand-driven strategies. The purpose is to ensure closer
linkages to labor market needs, to move to approaches through which the private sector is in full
partnership with the Ministry of Education, and to identify new mechanisms to finance technical and
vocational training. Based on lessons learned from the FAC-financed Projet Formation Professionnelle
pour l 'Emploi, a small scale training fund will be tested to channel resources in support of needs-based,
client-defined training. The second and third phase would be for gradual implementation of the new policy,
including an investment program, and a scaling up of mechanisms tested in the first phase. FAC, KJW, the
European Union, CIDA, UNDP, and IDA will support this sub-component in Phase 1.
Phase 1: A new sectoral policy and strategies will be prepared through a partnership with the private
sector. Institutional analyses of the two key MEN directorates dealing with technical and vocational
training (DFP and DEI) will lead to a redefinition of their roles. A small Vocational Training Support
Fund will be created, with an administrative council consisting of Government, Employers, and Employees.
The role of the administrative council and its executive secretariat will be defined in a Manual of
Procedures. The manual will also define financial flows, guidelines for submission of training proposals,
evaluation criteria, monitoring and implementation procedures, and provisions for dissemination of
information. The Vocational Training Support Fund is expected to disburse at least $150,000 annually.
The results of the first-phase testing will be incorporated into the evolving sectoral policy.
Phase 2: Development of an investment plan on the basis of the new policy and evaluation of the new
mechanisms for financing the sub-sector; development of new financing mechanisms on the basis of these
findings. Internal and external evaluation of training.
Phase 3: Follow-up on the investment plan and internal and external evaluation of training; implementation
of remedial measures to correct deficiencies.
3.    Higher Education. The program will complement existing support to the ongoing higher
education reform (PAES-Cr 2872-SE) by developing contractual approaches between the MEN and the
Universities. The purpose of this initiative is to develop more accountability for results at these
institutions, and to use these same contracting mechanisms to support the expansion of private higher
education institutions. IDA will be the main development partner during phase 1.
Phase l: Conceptualization, elaboration and adoption of contractual approach; elaboration of performance
indicators representing a commitment by each public or private faculty or institution to achieve specific
results, including unit cost objectives per student trained; implementation of a public information system to
create transparency and to encourage results-based accountability.
Phase 2: Development of "school improvement plans" for each institution on the basis of qualitative
objectives within the agreed financial framework. Follow-up on the monitoring and evaluation of the
performance of the post-secondary institutions; readjustment of budgets of various institutions in terms of
the results.
- 56 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 46.00 million
Strengthening capacity for decentralized management (IDA US$7.65M; Other including Government
US$38.35M)
Objective. The main objective of this component is to modernize and strengthen education sector
management. It will reinforce MEN's capacity to set policies and guidelines for the sector and improve the
education system's capacity for service delivery.
(i)    Personnel management. This sub-component will support the decentralization of personnel
functions, and establish new ways to deliver services. The Ministry will test new processes, procedures
and systems during the first years of program implementation. Implementation will be based on review of
MENs organizational structure at the central and regional levels. Under this sub-component, the legal
framework will be revised to support greater responsibility for education activities at the regional and
school levels, including oversight of teachers' career plans and the performance incentive system for
teachers, principals, supervisors and technical staff. As the foundation for decentralization, MEN will
establish a staff development program to improve the technical capabilities of management, pedagogical,
technical and administrative staff. Training and technical assistance will help MEN develop program
management capacity within central and regional directorates. Policies for more efficient use of personnel
will be elaborated. Shifting responsibilities due to decentralization and deconcentration policies will require
a major redeployment of personnel at primary and secondary level. IDA and FAC constitute the key
partners for MEN during phase I of this sub-component.
Phase 1: MEN will create a Directorate of Human Resources (DRH) for the management of personnel
issues currently ensured by DAGE. Primary school teachers' career path will be revised, negotiated with
the teachers' unions in order to establish consensus regarding a unified career path for all teachers and to
progressively eliminate the current two-track system. 2500 teachers will be recruited each year.
Recruitment will be the responsibility of the various regions on the basis of the existing " volunteer"
program. 700 non-teaching primary school personnel will be redeployed to teaching positions. The
percentage of substitute teachers (19% currently for Dakar) will be reduced by 50%. A similar program
will be developed for non-teaching secondary school personnel. MEN policy for the recruitment of middle
school and secondary teachers will be finalized taking into account the PDEF financial framework.
Management capacity will be reinforced at the IA level to allow the transfer of certain management
responsibilities to that level (for example, the management of overtime pay).
Phase 2: Based on needs identified during phase 1, additional personnel management functions will be
implemented at the regional level at the beginning of the second phase.
Phase 3: Based on needs identified during phase 2, certain personnel management functions will be
implemented at the departmental level in phase 3.
(ii)    Decentralized planning. This sub-component will support the new decentralized, bottom-up,
contract-based planning process launched in 1998. In each department, an education development plan (
PDDE) is jointly prepared by the IDEN and other local partners (decentralized collectivities and NGOs).
These plans are in turn aggregrated at the regional level, where they are turned into regional education
development plans (PRDE) on the basis of a regional framework created at the central level by DPRE
based on the PDEF financial framework. The PDDE and PRDE will be an integral part of the Integrated
Regional Development Plans (PDDI) and PRDI. So that these plans can be developed on the basis of
informed decision-making, information provided by the School Information System (see (iv) above) will be
- 57 -



analyzed and presented according to the needs of various decision-makers (Ministers, Directors, L4 and
Presidents of Regional Councils, IDENs, Mayors and Presidents of Rural Councils, schools and parents'
associations). Decisions on resource allocation will be made, at each level, in accordance with the criteria
defined by DPRE in order to reduce inter- and intra-regional, urban, peri-urban, rural, and gender
inequities. FAC, AFD, CIDA, ADB, and IDA will be, along with UNDP and UNESCO, the main partners
of MEN for this sub-component.
Phase 1: By the end of 2000, the departmental and regional education development plans for 2000-2003
will be finalized and approved by MEN. The DPRE will prepare resource allocation criteria before the end
of 2000. These will serve as criteria for evaluating the education development plans. Implementation of
the education development plans at the regional and departmental levels from 2000-2003 will be evaluated
at the end of the first phase. Lessons leamed from this evaluation will be used in the preparation of PDDE
and PRDE for 2004-2007. The DPRE will: (a) develop and negociate the following with the Ia and the
Regional Councils: (i) the methodological framework for preparing the PRDE; (ii) the regional framework
derived from the long-term feasibility model developed by MEN with CREA support; and (iii) the
arbitration criteria to be used by the regions in order that inequities among departments be reduced as per
PDEF goals; (b) develop and negociate with the IDEN and the local collectivities: (I) the methodological
framework for preparing the PDDE; (ii) the criteria by which the PDDE will be evaluated and approved by
the regions; and (iii) the criteria ensuring that the objectives of each PDDE are based on achieving
reductions in inter-depatmental inequities (ruralUurban, male/female); and (c) organize and monitor
decentralized planning mechanisms. At the end of the first phase, the PRDE of all 10 regions for
2004-2007 will be submitted to MEN and its development partners. Approval of at least 8 of the 10 PRDE
for 2004-2007 is a trigger for the second phase credit.
Phase 2: At the end of the second phase, PDDE and PRDE for 2004 and 2007 will be implemented,
monitored and evaluated to allow lessons learned to be incorporated in the preparation of PDDE and PRDE
for 2007-20 10. At the end of this phase, PDDE for all 41 departments for 2007-2010 will be assessed by
the regions according to the predefined criteria. The central MEN departments and the development
partners will be invited to observe this process. Approval of at least 33 (80%) of the PDDE for 2007-2010
is a trigger for the thrid phase credit.
Phase 3: During the period, 2007-2010, the PDDE and PRDE corresponding to the third phase will be
implemented, monitored and evaluated.
(iii)   Community participation. This sub-component aims at reinforcing MEN's capacity to support
increased parental and community participation at central, regional and local levels. It will improve school
autonomy and the decentralization of decision-making at the school and local levels to better satisfy the
expectations and needs of students and communities. The program will encourage community and school
participation by training parents' committees, providing relevant information on schools, and increasing the
availability of financial and material resources at the school level. As the program seeks to attract
marginalized groups of students, the need for a well-coordinated communications campaign will grow
accordingly. This will include mass media approaches, development of a partnership with professional
associations of joumalists, advertising campaigns using popular musicians, as well as an IEC campaign to
focus on gender issues. This sub-component will be designed to complement activities of the Social Fund
(financed by IDA and ABD), and to take advantage of the various means put in place by this fund to
inform and mobilize communities in the struggle against poverty. CIDA, FAC, AFD, ADB and IDA will
be the main partners of Ministry of Education for this sub-component.
Phase 1: During this phase, communication units within communities will be created in all operational
- 58 -



directorates and coordinated by a unit within DPRE. These units will be responsible for ensuring that
parents and communities receive information on changes in the PDEF to transfer more responsibilities to
them. DPRE will be responsible for coordinating information campaigns to ensure that messages are
coherent and to establish a partnership with parents and communities. At the end of this phase, all
households in Senegal will have a minimum understanding of the PDEF, not only in terms of universal
education, girls' education, multigrade teaching, and school grants, but also in terms of school data
regarding their own communities. A household survey will measure the impact of the communication
system.
Phase 2 and 3: Based on the findings of the household survey, the information system will be updated and
improved.
(iv)   Policy, monitoring and program evaluation. This sub-component aims at creating capacity
within MEN at the central, regional and local levels to analyze policy issues, and to monitor and evaluate
the education program on a yearly basis. Monitoring and outcome indicators (see Annex 1) will allow
MEN to measure progress and will form the basis for supervision. Each department involved with
implementation will develop instruments for monitoring its respective component, while the Planning Unit
and the DPRE, DAGE and DCES will consolidate and analyze statistical, financial, and physical data on
the rate of implementation. This sub-component will support the implementation of a computerized,
integrated School Information System allowing the collection, treatment and analysis of all data of the
sector (demographic, physical, educational and financial) by region, department, local collectivity and
urban neighborhood. The new PMR system will provide information on output indicators such as
expenditures, new building construction and number of teachers trained. The system will also receive
information through the Social Fund about the demand for schooling among poor families, and difficulties
encountered by these families in taking advantage of the opportunities for schooling that are offered. FAC
and IDA are the key partners of MEN for this subcomponent.
Phase 1: At the end of this phase, the information system will be in place, operational in all directorates, IA
and IDENs, and the first information flows from the system should be available to serve as baseline data
for assessing the progress of the sector at the end of the first phase, as well as to constitute the benchmark
data for the 2004-2007 PRDE. The information system will also incorporate information regarding adult
literacy and higher education. Annual reviews of the program will be organized; operational plans will be
prepared, implemented, and evaluated and corrective policies will be identified and implemented.
Indicators will show whether selected performance targets chosen as triggers for the second phase have
been achieved.
Phase 2: The MEN information system will be consolidated on the basis of lessons learned. It will be
further developed along two axes: a vertical axis reaching the secondary schools and a horizontal axis
reaching out to other existing information systems for greater ease of information exchange among the
following areas: adult literacy, health, social fund, labor market employment, and Ministry of Finance.
This will allow production of cross analysis in the social sectors, as well as greater coherence in the
struggle to reduce poverty.
Phase 3: The information system will be further developed to take advantage of increasing connectivity of
various schools and other establishments to the Internet.
(v)    Management of financial flows and physical investment. This sub-component will support the
implementation of a program approach, as well as the decentralization effort by establishing systems of
financial management and staff training at all levels. The program will introduce program budgeting for
- 59 -



the MEN at the central, regional, local and school levels. DAGE and DPRE will coordinate the preparation,
follow-up, and evaluation of Annual Operating Plans and Budgets (POBA) prepared and implemented by
IA and MEN directorates in collaboration with local collectivities and other partners. CREA's support to
the MEN will allow the monitoring of the fit between budget and implementation of the Program and the
financial framework which constitutes the basis of the program's sustainability. The DAGE and DPRE
together will then develop a detailed decentralization plan. Each of these departments will be reorganized
to be prepared for decentralization; additional personnel will be recruited to the DAGE and existing
personnel will be trained in order to develop an audit capacity and to ensure the overall monitoring required
for the move to decentralization. Financial personnel will be trained at both the L and the IDEN level.
Support will be given for ongoing economic and budgetary analysis, strengthening and decentralizing
school mapping processes, developing audit capacity in the regions and prefectures, and for gradual
shifting of responsibility for non-salary operating budgets from the center to the decentralized level. The
program of small grants (projets d'ecole) described above will be used to develop the capacity for using
and accounting for funds at the local level.
Phase 1: This phase has two objectives: (a) to reinforce capacity for managing financial and human
resources, as well as procurement, at the central level and (b) to develop management capacity at the
regional level to pave the way for decentralization of financial and human resource management to this
level during the second phase. In support of the first objective, the DAGE will implement its reorganization
and capacity building plan to ensure: (i) management of the Annual Operating Plans and Budgets; (ii)
management of the Special Accounts (held by the DDI) and the advance accounts; (iii) procurement in
order to respect the execution calendars and action plans of each component; (iv) the production of
quarterly management reports and the implementation of the LACI system on schedule, and (v) the
follow-up of all sectoral expenditures in order to ensure that the PDEF financial framework is respected
and to recommend corrective measures in a timely fashion as needed. As regards the second objective,
capacity for human resource and financial management will be developed in all IA. The existence of
management capacity at the regional level will be one of the performance criteria serving as triggers for
Phase 2.
Phase 2: This phase of the IDA credit will be managed at the regional level by the IA based on the regional
education development plan and the Annual Operating Plans and Budgets. Regional management will be
monitored and evaluated, at the same time as IDEN capacities for management during Phase 3 are being
developed. By the end of the second phase, the IA will be responsible for most non-salary operating
budgets and for payment of contract teachers. The existence of management capacity at the IDEN level
will be one of the performance criteria serving as triggers for Phase 3.
Phase 3: During this phase, the deconcentration and decentralization process will reach IDEN to which will
be transferred most of the non-wage operating budgets.
- 60 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component               US $million   US $million   US $million
1. Increasing Access to Basic Education                578.00         59.00       637.00
2. Improving the Quality of Schooling                   125.14       117.66       242.80
3. Strengthening Capacity for Decentralized Management  31.95         13.60        45.55
4. PPF                                                   0.65          0.00         0.65
Total Baseline Cost                                     735.74       190.26       926.00
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00          0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.00          0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs            735.74       190.26       926.00
Total Financing Required            735.74        190.26       926.00
Local       Foreign       Total
Projec Cost By Category                US Smillion   US $rnillion   US $million
1. Works                                                  30.00         30.00        60.00
2. Goods                                                  13.28         40.00        53.28
3. Consultant Services                                    14.49          9.66        24.15
4. Training                                               32.32          2.10         34.42
5. Grants                                                 23.85          2.65        26.50
6. Operating Costs                                       621.15        105.85       727.00
7. PPF                                                     0.65          0.00          0.65
Total Project Costs   735.74        190.26       926.00
Total Financing Required   735.74         190.26       926.00
- 61 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Background. This Annex summarizes the economic analysis that was used in the identification,
preparation and evaluation of the Senegal Quality Education For All Program (QEFA). The QEFA
covers the first three years of a 10 year national education development program. The proposed PDEF/
QEFA is a sector expenditure program which: (i) defines the Government's education sector policy
priorities for the next 10 years; (ii) provides the recurrent and investment expenditures for all levels of
education in the context of the Government's macroeconomic framework; (iii) clarifies how the investment
and recurrent expenditures will be financed between Government, local governments, households and
donors in order to attain the Government's policy priorities; (iv) establishes financial and budget
performance indicators to monitor the implementation of the program; and (v) involves significant reforms
in institutional, organizational and other technical capacities in order to implement the program.
Link to Economic and sector work. In developing the PDEF, economic sector work was critical in
helping to define sector priorities and costing the program. The process used to define the research
program and the fact that local researchers worked closely with policy makers has resulted in a high degree
of local ownership and consensus at the technical level and political level on the policy reform package. In
the early stages of identification, an inter-ministerial Working Group on Finance and Education was
established to define and manage the background economic analysis needed to diagnose how public
expenditures were currently being allocated and what expenditure and financing policies would better meet
public priorities of attaining universal primary education and improving equity. The studies commissioned
comprised: (i) an education expenditure review; (ii) a sector financing study; (iii) a cost-effectiveness
analysis of middle and secondary education; (iv) a benefit-incidence analysis of public education
expenditures; (v) a demand analysis for primary education and (vi) the development of an expenditure
simulation model linking government policy objectives to sector expenditures and providing a framework
for estimating the financing plan. The CREA, a local university research institution commissioned to carry
out these studies, worked in close collaboration and under the leadership of the DAGE and the Ministry of
Finance. The findings of the Public Expenditure Review were critical in identifying sector problems related
to efficiency, effectiveness and equity in resources allocation and use.
During preparation numerous seminars and technical meetings were held with senior Government officials
and other stakeholders to discuss the findings and recommendations of the economic research. During
these meetings consensus was reached on a number of important policy issue and decisions concerning (i)
the level of Government financing that was consistent with the medium-term macroeconomic framework;
(ii) the priorities for Government within the education sector; (iii) increasing the importance of
student/household contribution to the financing of secondary and higher education; and (iv) future teacher
recruitment on a contractual basis rather than an expansion of the existing civil service system, with
teachers hired to teach locally (although paid by the Central Government). The expenditure simulation
model was of particular importance in comparing various policy scenarios.
During appraisal, the economic analysis concentrated on (i) agreeing on unit costs and estimating the total
costs and financing strategies for the various levels of education; (ii) clarifying the mechanisms and
procedures for moving to a contracted system of teachers at all levels of instruction; (iii) exploring
strategies to implement cost recovery at secondary and higher education; (iv) designing measures to
improve management at the local and school level; (v) clarifying and assessing the associated risks; (vi)
evaluating the sensitivity of the program to shortfalls in financing; and (vii) defining performance
- 62 -



indicators, the content of the annual financial review and the economic analysis that would be carried out
during the QEFA.
The economic and financial analysis commissioned by the Working Group was complementary to the other
studies on: (i) student learning and school effectiveness at the primary level by SNER and CONFIMEN; (ii)
constraints to girls schooling by IDS/FAWE; and (iii) an institutional analysis of middle and secondary
schools by UNESCO and the French Co-operation. (These documents can all be found in the project
files). However, if the reforms are to be successfully implemented and policy objectives achieved, the
Government must involve teachers and students more fully in discussion about the nature of reforms and
how they are to be implemented.
Recent Policy Outcomes. If not in a crisis, the education sector in Senegal is at an important cross-roads.
In spite of considerable effort during the 1 990s, indicators of education attainment and learning have
remained extremely low in Senegal and unless reversed, its prospects for sustained growth and development
will be in jeopardy. Senegal needs a more literate and productive work force. Table I compares Senegal
with sub-Saharan Africa for the period 1992 - 1994, and shows that with a higher level of public
expenditures (as a percentage GDP) education results attained in Senegal were lower than in other
sub-Saharan countries when measured in terms of GER and student teacher ratio. This relative
inefficiency is largely due to past policies and reflects the inherent difficulty in reallocating public
expenditures towards primary education and within primary education to quality enhancing inputs. Today
the principle challenge for the Government is to substantially increase primary level enrollments, improve
the quality and learning attainments at all levels, instill accountability and efficiency in management and
achieve greater equity in sector expenditure allocations. The Government is confronted with a rapidly
growing school population and increasing demand for education at all levels combined with limited public
resources given the Government's decision to limit its education recurrent budget to 33% of the
Government's total recurrent budget (after interest payments) and 8% of the investment budget for the next
3 years.
Table 1: Education Indicators: Senegal and sub-Saharan Africa (selected years)
Indicator and year                                     unit             Senegal          SSA
Population Growvth (1997)                              %                2.9              27
Life Expectancy (1966)                                 years            50               52
Percentage of population under 1 5 (1996)              %                44.6             44.8
GDP per capita (1997)                                  US$              550              503
GER primary: SSA 1993-96, Senegal (1995-96)            %                57               75
ofwhich girls                                      %                50               67
GER middle and secondary: (1993 - 1995)                %                16               28
of which girls                                     %                12               23
Student teacher ratio (1993 -95)                       no.              61               44
Public Expenditures as % of total expenditures (1992- 94)*  %           23.5             16
Public Expenditures as %ofGDP (1992 -94)*              %                5.2              3.7
Sources: Government of Senegal, PER, IMF, World Bank, Africa socio-economic indicators
* Public Expenditures are expenditures by central and local goverrnent and ODA.
Previous Education Policy Framework. The Government of Senegal's last education sector policy
objectives were defined in the VII and IX Economic and Social Development Plans. The principal
objectives were to:
(i) attain universal primary enrollment by 2010 with an intermediate objective of GER of 75% by
2000 and promote girls schooling and reduce regional disparities;
(ii) improve the transition rate between primary, middle and general secondary improve enrollment
rates at these levels;
-63 -



(iii) improve the quality of education giving priority to reforming secondary technical education;
(iv) restructure higher education by reducing the number of students, privatizing social services and
containing costs, improving the quality of education, particularly in scientific areas and improving
internal and external efficiency, increasing the working hours of professors and introducing
cost-recovery;
(v) reallocate public resources to primary education.
Primary education. The Government has had only limited success in meeting its primary enrollment rate
objectives during the 1990s. At the end of the 1980s, primary education could not satisfy the demand and
its quality was considered inferior to the average in sub-Saharan Africa. As Table 2 shows, enrollment
rates in 1998 are only slightly above the level achieved in 1989. Between 1985 and 1995, enrollment rates
barely kept pace with population growth, (even declined in 1993-1995) due to an insufficient number of
teachers and slow expansion in the supply of schools and classrooms. In urban areas, the private sector
picked up the slack and student enrollment grew at a faster rate (5.2%) than in the public sector (4.2%)
during which time, the private sector increased its share from 9% to 12% of students all students attending
school. Since 1995, however, public primary enrollments have grown at an annual average rate of 8.3%
(10.2% for girls) allowing Senegal to reach a GER of 60% by 1998 mainly as a result of the Government's
decision to start a teacher volunteer program which for the first time in a decade allowed teacher
recruitment to keep pace with enrollment growth at an affordable cost. The volunteer teacher program
begun in 1995 hired mostly university graduates on a two year (renewable for two years) contract at a
salary of one-third the starting salary of a new teacher. In total about 4,000, representing almost 1/3 of the
primary teaching force, have been hired and received short-term pre-service training. Additional policies
which increased enrollment rates included: (i) significantly increasing classroom construction (1,500
classes per year compared to previous years (200 - 5000 per year) particularly in rural areas, (ii)
aggressively promoting double shifting in urban areas (from 28% to 43% of urban public school students);
and (iii) carrying out a public information campaign to encourage girls schooling. While efforts have kept
the average class size from increasing, it is still high and there is an enormous variation in class size
between rural and peri-urban zones, even within IDEN as evidenced by detailed class information. The
single most cost-effective policy to improve learning would be to reduce the variance in student-teacher
ratios by re-deploying teachers from excess areas, administrative posts and using multigrade teaching more
intensively.
Middle and Secondary Schools. Government policy has been to contain expansion at these levels. In
middle secondary total enrollment has grown by only 2.4% annually (1.9% public, 3.6% private); the gross
enrollment rate remained constant in the 1990s at about 21% which is quite low when compared the
sub-Saharan average. Since 1990, 72 new middle schools have been established of which 23 are public
Most schools and students are in urban areas (92%); girls comprise 38% of enrollment, Due to lack of
places only 18% of primary graduates are accepted into the first year of middle school. Class sizes are
high, averaging 55 students per class and ranging from 41 in Fatick to 100 in some suburban Dakar
schools . Given, the low transition rate from primary to middle school and the increased enrollments at
primary this level of education needs urgent attention. At the secondary level, there are 92 secondary
schools (39 public) enrolling 60,000 students. Since 1992, 26 new secondary schools have been
established, the majority public and all in urban areas. Total enrollment grew at an average annual rate of
2.1% (0.7% public and 11 % private). The GER declined from 11 % to 8% while girl's share increase from
33% to 36%. While one of the Government's policy objective was to prioritize and restructure technical
secondary education. This objective has not been achieved and in fact the number of students in this
sub-sector has declined on average 10% annually; whether the issue is one of demand or supply is not
clear.
-64 -



Higher education. The quality of higher education, as measured by the entrance capacity, internal
efficiency and the student teacher ratio is poor. Approximately 75% % of students are enrolled in the first
two years of university because there is no limit on the number of times a student can fail (80% of students
fail the first year and between 60% and 70% the second year), and student teacher ratios are very unequal
between institutes and faculties. The number of years necessary to produce a graduate (varying from 14 to
90 depending on the faculty) and the percentage of students obtaining a diploma (varying between 2% and
24%) has not yet improved during the 1990s. Starting with a situation characterized by a lack of control
over admissions at the beginning of the 1990s, the Government began a reform program in 1994 which
entailed abandoning automatic admission with the Baccalaureate. Between 1994 and 1996, admission rates
were reduced at both UGB and UCAD and social services were privatized and targeted to needy students,
transferring savings to finance quality inputs. Until 1996 admissions were contained and huge savings
were realized on social expenses until 1996, when policy reforms were partially reversed and others such as
cost-recovery were never introduced.
Private service delivery. A new statute clarifying the regulatory environment for private schools was
enacted in 1994. This statute, coupled with the growing dissatisfaction with the quality of public schools
and limits on the expansion at these levels has led to a steady increase in private provision. As shown in
Table 2 and 3 , private enrollment's share of students increased at all levels and in 1996 private service
delivery accounted for about 13% of all financing in the sector concentrating in primary with FCFA 9.9
billion or 19% of services and FCFA 5.3 billion in middle secondary with 33% of the value of services.
Enrollments in private schools have increased faster than in public schools (14% at primary, 7.2% in
middle and 21% in high schools; 90% of primary schools are in urban areas and a growing number are of
these schools are bilingual Arab/French or Koranic which include religious instruction.. Nevertheless, the
emergence of the private sector has not significantly increased gross enrollment rates. There is greater
potential for the private sector if the public sector can work in greater collaboration in partnership with it.
Urban rural differences. Analysis of two household surveys (ESP 1992 and ESAM 1994) show that
national levels of GER hides important variations in enrollments depending on family income and whether
the family lives in urban or rural zones. One can conclude from Tables 2 and 3 that: (i) the GER is lower,
the poorer is the family. While the primary GER was 57% in Senegal in 1992, it was 26% for the poorest
quintile and lower for girls at all levels except the richest quintile; (ii) the GER gap between the richer and
poorer quintiles gets wider as the level of education increases. If the GER for primary is 4 times greater in
the richest than in the poorest quintile, it is 80 times greater for higher education; (iii) as incomes rise the
difference in GER between boys and girls gets smaller and disappears at the primary level for the highest
income groups; (iv) for all income levels and levels of education, GER is significantly lower in rural areas.
- 65 -



Table 2: GER by quintile and level of schooling (% 1992
Primary        Middle        Secondary       Higher
Quintile     Total Girls    Total Girls    Total Girls    Total Girls
1       26.0 17.7       5.0  2.3       1.6  0.4       0.1  0.1
2       42.5 35.3       11.8 6.4       5.0  1.2       0.7  0.4
3       65.2 59.3       23.9 16.6      12.7  6.1      1.4  0.4
4       83.9 75.6       40.6 30.1      26.4 14.1      2.5  1.2
5       101.8 100.4     72.3 62.6      48.9 43.6      8.3  5.4
National    57.4  51.1     26.6 20.3      17.6 11.6      2.4  1.3
Table 3: GER by quintile and zone (%) 1992
Quintiles                      1        2        3       4        5
Primary
Rural Zones                22.4       26.8    30.1    39.9    39.1
Urban Zones                64.2       65.8    80.0    90.9    105.2
Middle Secondary
Rural Zones                 3.5        3.5     4.6    12.1    3.9
Urban Zones                 18.2      21.8    30.6    87.9    96.1
Demand for Education. In attempt to explain the variation in enrollment rates, an analysis of the demand
for education was carried out by CREA based on household survey data. It concluded that the decision to
send children to school depended on the proximity of the school, income level of the family, and the number
of girls in the family. The main reason explaining low GER in Senegal is a question of supply. The
difference in GER between income groups increases as the level of education increases partly because
poorer families tend to live in rural areas. There is less access to primary, middle and secondary schools in
rural areas. A higher percentage of incomplete primary schools and the greater distance to middle schools
are explanatory factors. The benefit-incidence and demand analysis found very little change between the
two periods for which household data is available except that enrollment rates at primary improved in the
lowest two quintiles (because of school construction). A study carried out by IDS/FAWE on constraints to
girls schooling came to similar conclusions citing transportation and the costs of books and competition
between public schools and Koranic schools in some areas as being the major factors constraining primary
school attendance. The main recommendations of the CREA study calls for a more dense school mapping
carte multigrade smaller schools) in order to motivate parents to send children to school. This will of
course require a substantial increase in resources to primary schools, targeting public subsidies to rural
areas, reducing the costs of primary education to families and increasing family contribution to secondary
and higher education which benefits disproportionately higher income groups.
Student Achievement: Education Quality/ Low Internal Efficiency. The cost to Government and
parents of high repetition and drop-out rates is a major policy concern as it significantly constrains
capacity to increase enrollment rates. Internal efficiency (as measured by repetition rates, the proportion of
an entering cohort to graduate, the number of years of expenditures required to produce a graduate, student:
personnel ratios and student achievement) is very low throughout the system. Despite stated policy
objectives to reduce repetition rates, they remain high at all levels and have not fallen in more than a
decade. Repetition rates average 13%, 15% and 21% in primary, middle and secondary education
respectively, reaching between 26-28% in the last grade of each cycle Repeaters take up an estimated
83,000 student places (or 1,800 classrooms) which could be used to off-load overcrowded classrooms or
take in new students. For an entering cohort in primary school, only 14% will graduate and producing one
- 66 -



graduate requires 22 years of investment for the 6 year cycle. (3.3 times the cost if there were no dropout or
repetition). In middle schools, only 36.3% of an entering cohort will graduate with a BFEM, and to achieve
one graduate requires an investment of 7 student years for the 4 year cycle (1.6 times imputed cost). In
secondary schools, 20% will graduate, and to achieve one graduate requires an investment of 9 years for
the 3 year cycle (3 times the imputed costs).
The quality of primary education is sub-standard when judged by various indicators including the results of
student achievement tests conducted by INEADE and CONFIMEN (1998) for primary schools. In general,
only 15% of primary school students achieve the minimum learning objectives and compared to the other
Francophone countries, Senegalese students scored the lowest on comparable tests of achievement.
Table 4: Senegal: Measures of Internal Efficiency in Education (1992 and 1996)
School Level                                   Primary             Middle        Secondary       Technical
1989   1992   1998   1992   1998   1992   1998   1992   1998
GrossEnrollmentRate                        57.1   55.8   60.1   21.0   21.2   11.0    8.0
for girls                              47.5   47.1   49.8
Private students % of total                        9.2   12.1   25.8   27.5   12.6   18.8   16.8   22.3
Quality indicators (ratios)
student/class public                            64      64      55      55     49      44      39      38
student/class private                           46      43      41      38     29      37      40      32
student/teacher public                          61      61      36     32      21      22
Internal Efriciency (%)                                                                                      I
last year repetition                                   30.2   25.0   22.4   32.1   28.1        n.a    n.a
last year dropout                                      3.9   10.5    2.3    n.a    n.a    n.a    n.a
admission to final exam                                       49.1   50.1   34.5   43.7   47.1   54.3
Graduation ( ublic) 
years/student completion                               22.51           7.0             9.0            n.a
number of diplomas/total students  )14.0                              36.3            20.7            n.a
Source: Governmnent of Senegal, Revue des Depenses Publiques dans le Secteur de l'Education, 1998
In recent years, three studies have been carried out to assess the factors explaining differences in student
learning and school performance. The SNERS and PASEC (CONFIMEN) studies, analyzing learning in
primary levels concluded that:
(i) family income and education strongly influences student achievement and are strongly linked to
other variables that explain differences in student achievement, namely the availability of books and
other school material and class size.
(ii) books are crucial for success. At the primary level, regardless of family characteristics, the
availability of books is the most important predictor of achievement. However, only 50%- 70% of
Grade 2 and 4 students have language books and only 20 -30% have math books.
(iii) students in large classes at the primary level have lower levels of achievement.
(iv) the level of teacher qualification has no impact on learning outcomes; achievement of boys and
girls are similar on average but girls perform better as they advance in the system.
(v) students in private schools performed better that those in private schools, regardless of family
characteristics. This is explained by the school management, smaller average class size and frequent
evaluation of students.
The CREA study analyzed the cost-effectiveness in secondary middle, general and technical schools. Graph
2 plots student achievement against unit student costs showing that higher levels of expenditures do not
necessarily lead to better outcomes and the best school are relatively low cost The study came to
surpassingly similar conclusions as the analysis of primary schools arguing that in middle and secondary
schools, the most important factor explaining differences in school level outcomes was how schools were
managed. The study makes the following recommendations:
(i) the most cost-effective policy to improve student achievement and to improve wastage is to
-67 -



systematically introduce pedagogy and administrative management systems (including class councils)
at the school level;
(ii) the easiest policy to implement and the most certain of a positive impact is to improve the supply
and use of books and school manuals;
(iii) the second best strategy would be to put in place a remedial system at the school level
(iv) the third best policy but difficult to implement is to increase the number of effective hours that
teachers teach (increasing from 15 to the 20/24 norm ) by constructing supplementary schools in some
schools and/or improving the utilization of teachers between schools so as to increase productivity;
(v) in crowded schools, particularly in peri-urban areas and public schools, a cost-effective strategy is
to reduce student/desk ratios.
Policies which are extremely costly and do not have much impact on learning outcomes are (i) increasing
the qualification level of teachers; and (ii) reducing class size. As well, teacher status, whether a
contractual or a civil servant does not have any bearing on learning outcomes. Consequently, expanding
public secondary education should be based on a hiring policy of contractual and volontaires as a means to
contain costs.
Expenditures in education. Table I shows that between 1992 and 1994, Senegal allocated on average
more resources to education than the average SSA country and that these were used relatively inefficiently.
In 1997, the Government commissioned a public expenditure review of the education sector which provides
a more detailed analysis of the evolution and allocation of public expenditures and confirms the diagnosis
of poor quality and efficiency discussed above. Between 1992 and 1996 total expenditures in public
education increased in nominal terms from FCFA I10 billion to FCFA 143 billion; in real terms, education
expenditures declined by about 14% between 1992 and 1997, which corresponds to an annual average
decline of about 3.3%. As a proportion of GDP the same tendency is observed as total expenditures
declined from 5.4% to 4.0%. This decline is more pronounced in per capita real terms as expenditures
decline by a factor of 2.5 times between 1992 and 1996.
Sources of financing. Contributing on average CFA 82 billion annually, public sector expenditures
increased from FCFA 79 billion to FCFA 97.6 billion representing an increase of 23.2% or on an annual
basis an increase of 4.6% between 1992 and 1997. In spite of this increase in nominal terms the
Government's real fiscal effort declined during this period:
(i) government's share of total education financing in education declined from 74% to 68% between
1992 and 1997. With respect to public education, Government's share also declined from 80% to
76.4%;
(ii) education's share of the Government's recurrent budge (after debt service) declined from 34.8% in
1992 to 31.4% in 1997 before increasing to 33% in 1998;
(iii) Expressed in real terms, total public resources allocated to education declined by 12% between
1992 and 1996;
(iv) As shown in Table 5, as a share of GDP, public expenditures declined from 4.8% to 3.3%
between 1992 and 1997;
(v) the decline on a per capita basis was even more dramatic.
The decline in support from the central government has been compensated in part by other sources of
finance. Household contributions to public education have steadily become more important during the
1990s financing fees, transportation, books and maintenance. Estimated at about FCFA 17 billion in 1992
household contributions have increased significantly to FCFA 26.9 or about 19% of all financing in the
sector. Of this, contributions to the public system have gone from FCFA 5.9 in 1992 to FCFA 8.9 billion
in 1996 and FCFA 10 billion in 1998. Private service delivery received about FCFA 15.6 billion in 1996.
- 68 -



Local governments contribution to education has been extremely modest at less than 1% annually and is
mostly directed to investment at the primary level. Although Official development assistance has fluctuated,
it represents on average 14.4% of the financing of public education.
Table 5: Public Expenditures Trends in Education (selected years)
Central Government Expenditures                                 1992        1995       1996       1997
Education expenditures
recurrent as % Government recurrent*                           34.8        31.1       33.2       31.4
investment as % Government investment                           0.4         1.0        1.0        0.6
total as % of total Government spending (incl. Debt)           20.0        17.3        19.9      17.7
Public Education Expenditures (FCFA billion)
of which Central Government (%)                                 80.1%       75.6%      78.5%      75.8%
Donors                                                   11.5%       15.2%      12.2%      13.5%
Local Government                                         1.4%        1.1%       1.0%       1.0%
Households                                               7.2%         8.3%       8.7%      10.2%
Total Education Expenditures (FCFA billion)
of which Central Government (%/6)                                  73.9%       8.8%      69.4%      68.0%
Donors                                                      8.9%       10.8%     10.6%      11.8%
Local Government                                            0.8%       0.8%       0.7%       0.7%
Households                                                   8.9%     19.6%       19.3%      19.6%
Allocation of total recurrent expenditures recurrent               100%      100%       100%      100%
Administration                                                     4.6%      11.3       12.8      14.6
Literacy                                                           0.3%       0.3       0.2        0.0
Primary                                                          40.1%      35.7        37.6      36.2
middle and general secondary                                     23.0%      22.3        19.9      18.6
technical and professional                                         9.6%      7.2        6.7        4.3
higher education                                                 22.5%      23.2        22.8      26.6
Public recurrent expenditures ( % GDP)                              4.9%    3.3%       3.4%       3.3%
Total Education Expenditures ( % GDP)**                             5.4%    4.7%       4.5%       3.8%
Total Education Expenditures (per capita US$1992)                     41     18          17        11
Per student expenditures ( % of per capita GDP)
public primary                                                    25%      19%         18%
public middle and secondary                                       67%      59%        48%
higher                                                            433     376%        401%
** includes investment and recurrent expenditures from all sources
Intrasectoral Allocation of Expenditures. The trends described above are reflected in the distortions in
the intrasectoral allocation of expenditures. Tables 5 and 6 show the sudden increase in the share of
expenditures allocated to administrative services going from 5.8% in 1992 to 16% of public recurrent
expenditures in 1993. Higher education, more able to protect its budget during this period, actually
increased its share from 25.6% in 1992 to 27.7% and more or less maintained it, resulting in a compression
of expenditure shares at other levels. Budget allocations were thus made to the detriment to primary and
secondary education. The share of the recurrent budget to middle and secondary fell 27.2% to 24.6% and
primary education's share of the budget declined from 40% in 1992 to 34% in 1995, when its share began
to rise again to 36.6% in 1997. This shift differs radically from other countries in West Africa, such as
Guinea and Cote d'Ivoire where public expenditures to primary have increased accounting for 60% and
40% of government recurrent expenditures respectively.
- 69 -



Table 6: Intrasectoral allocation of public recurrent expenditures
Sub-sector        1992       1993        1994        1995       1996
Administration       5.8%       16.0%       15.3%      15.1%       16.1%
Primary             41.1%       32.9%      33.6%       33.9%      35.4%
Middle              10.4%       9.6%        9.6%       9.3%        9.5%
Secondary           16.8%       14.4%      14.8%       14.8%      15.1%
Higher              25.6%       27.7%      27.1%       26.9%       23.9%
Role of the public sector. Three principles can be used to guide the level of public intervention in
education: (i) Market failure: private households may under-invest because of the unavailability of credit,
or imperfect information. Uneducated parents, for example, may underestimate the value of education for
their children. Both of these factors will tend to result in sub-optimal private spending in basic education
especially in rural areas; (ii) the existence of positive externalities (a sub-set of market failure): the
Government should intervene to supplement private expenditures where the social rate of return is higher
than the private rate of return. This is generally accepted to be the case for education in Africa, though
there are no good estimates of the social rate of return for Senegal; (iii) equity objectives: the Government
should intervene if the allocation of private resources is expected to lead to inequitable outcomes. If the
benefits of higher education are captured primarily by the well-off while the benefits of primary education
are fairly evenly distributed, government may choose to concentrate its attention on the latter. The
Government of Senegal's role as the largest single provider of finance for education can be justified on
these grounds. However, the distribution of public resources between the different levels of education has
not been clearly articulated on either efficiency or equity grounds. In effect, the role of private financing
has not been properly defined, perhaps because the information on private ROR was lacking. But tentative
estimates for 1994 are now available; 14% for primary, 97% for secondary and 134% for tertiary. This
suggest that secondary and tertiary investment is highly profitable to individual households (partly because
of the large public subsidy). It also suggests that the greatest discrepancy between social and private rates
of return is likely to be at the level of primary education. Yet households' share of financing of primary
education has increased from 12% to 17% during the 1 990s largely as a result of the introduction of cost
recovery for schoolbooks while the Government's share of financing has declined from 82% to 77%. At the
same time, household contributions to financing of secondary and higher levels of education were only 10%
and 1% respectively in 1996, the opposite of what efficiency and equity arguments would recommend.
- 70 -



Table 7: Source of financing & intrasectoral distribution of expenditures 1996 (FCFA millions)
Government          Local         Households         ODA           Total        % of
Government                                                    Total
Administration                   13.843                                                        13.843         11.1
Preschool-                           12                                                            12
Primary                          31.207              767           16.121          3.037       51.132         41.2
Public                          30.407              767            6.925           3.307      41.136
Private                            800                             9.196                       9.996
Secondary Middle                  8.177              159            6.427                      14.764         11.9
Public                           8.177              159            1.096                       9.432
Private                                                            5.331                       5.331
Secondary General                 9.239              192            1.456          2.308       13.195         10.6
Public                           9.239              192             453           2.308       12.192
Private                                                            1.003                       1.003
Technical                         1.993                8             235            1.762       3.920          3.2
Public                                               8               98           1.762        3.861
Private                                                             137                         137
Professional-Public               1.961                                             1.959       3.920          3.2
Higher - Public                  20.667                              275           2.369       23.311         18.8
Total Public                     86.301            1.125            8.846          11.436     107.709         86.7
Total Private                       800                            15.668                      16.468         13.3
TOTAL                            87.101            1.125           25.514          11.436     124.176        100.0
Share(%)                          70.1%             0.9%           19.7%            9.2%        100%
Benefit-incidence analysis. The distribution of public expenditures by income group is illustrated in
Graph 1 and shows that (i) the 20% richest households received 34% of public expenditures, and the
poorest received 6%. (ii) as the level of education increases, there is a greater divergence in share of
expenditures to different groups. For the first quintile, its share of expenditures at primary is 12% but
only 2% of secondary expenditures and less than 1 % of higher expenditures and the inverse is true for the
richer groups. This is because the GER for the higher quintiles is greater at all levels of education and unit
costs at these levels is much higher than at primary where the majority of children from poor households
attend. Even so, the richest quintile benefit proportionately more at the primary level with only 10% of
children in this age group, they receive 17% of primary expenditures while the poorest quintile have 25% of
children in the 7 - 12 age group and receive 12% of expenditures. With less children, the richest quintile
benefit more on a per capita basis. The overall distribution of public expenditures became more equitable
between 1992 and 1994 as the poorest quintiles share increased to 14%. This is explained by increasing
access to education in rural areas which has benefited the poor and increasing recourse to private systems
by the richer quintiles.
Table 8: Economic Ailocation of recurrent expenditures
(as % of education recurrent expenditures)
Expenditures         1992         1993         1994         1995        1996
Personnel              79.0%        75,5%       77,4%        77.3%        78,7%
Textbooks              0.6%         0,8%         0,6%         0,5%        0,5%
Other materials        4.7%         4,8%         2,9%         3,2%        4,1%
Maintenance            0.7%         0,7%         0,5%         0,6%        0.6%
Subsidies              6.9%         7,9%         8,0%         7,9%        7,3%
Scholarships           8.2%         10,3%       10,6% 6       10,5%/o     8,9%
Economic Allocation of Expenditures. The trends in intrasectoral allocations, illustrates the difficulty in
applying principles of education policy in a period of fiscal austerity. In Senegal, the economic allocation
of education expenditures deteriorated between 1992 and 1997:
(i) the investment budget fell to 5% of total education expenditures
(ii) the share of salaries in the recurrent budget increased from 76% in 1992 to 79% in 1997;
(iii) for primary education, salaries accounted for 97% of government's recurrent expenditures between
1992 - 1996 which led to the decision to introduce cost recovery for textbooks.
(iv) scholarships and subsidies increased from  15.1%  in 1992 to 16.2 %  in 1997 (of which 95%  was
- 71 -



for higher education). Books accounted for 0.7% of recurrent expenditures and maintenance about
5.5% between 1992 and 1996.
Unit costs and controlling the wage bill. The increasing share of salaries in the recurrent budget over the
1990s has effectively crowded out the capacity to finance inputs such as books, maintenance and
supervision needed to ensure education quality. In primary education, the devaluation, the expansion of
double shifting and the recruitment of "voluntaries" after 1995 have permitted the Government to reduce
the unit salary costs per student in real terms and thereby increase the number of teachers and the GER.
The ratio between the salary of a volontaire and a certified teacher (enseignant titulaire) is 1 to 5.4 and 1
to 6.8 for teaching a double shift class. By 1996 volontaires teachers accounted for 9% of salary unit cost
for primary although they provided about 20% of teachers. However, given the inherent rigidities in the
nominal wage bill for civil servant teachers, not all of the possible economies of hiring volontaire teachers
can be realized. The salary scale of unionized civil servant teachers does not reflect current labor market
wage scales. Another potential source of savings is the redeployment of administrative positions filled by
non-teaching teachers and supplementary teachers who receive full-time salaries but work only occasionally
and other civil servants who erroneously receive teaching benefits. In the urban areas of Dakar and Thies it
is estimated that 20% of the wage bill is accounted for by supplementary teachers. Overall, these posts
account for 35% of the average unit cost per student.
Table 9: Trends in Unit Costs (FCFA millions)
Level                          Unit costs                 As a ratio of primary unit cost
1992             1996             1992             1996
Primary                                  43,356           37,538                1               I
Middle                                   69,491           72,864              1,6              1,9
Secondary                               251,817          251,926              5,8              6,7
Higher                                  818,258          944,221              18,9            25,2
All levels                               78,228           73,094              1,8              1,9
The structure of unit costs in secondary levels is quite similar to that of primary. Wages' share of unit
costs has increased from 73% to 80% at secondary middle and general displacing expenditures on books
which have declined from 2.3% to 0.8%. Administrative personnel account for over 25% of wage costs.
Wage differences between a civil servant professor is two times that of a contracted professor (who also
teach 22 hours compared to the 18/20 hours of a civil servant teacher). However contracted professors
account for only 3.5% of per student wage costs. Other factors contributing to high per student salary
costs are the specialization of teachers in middle secondary and the excessive number of courses leading to
a high proportion of teachers teaching less than the maximum required hours yet being paid full-time. The
inability of the Government to significantly reduce scholarships and other social transfers has meant that it
has been not only unable to reduce higher education's share in expenditures but also that it has not been
able to reduce unit costs. As shown in Table 9 the ratio to primary education increased from 19 to 25.
- 72 -



Strengths and weaknesses. In the 1990s Senegal adopted ambitious policy objectives in a environment of
declining public resource availability. The main public sector strengths and policy successes in
implementing the reform program, over the past decade have been: (i) improving efficiency at the primary
level by reducing unit costs through the expansion of double shifting and introducing volontaire and
contractual teachers and developing low-cost pre-service training modules; (ii) successfully contracting
literacy programs to NGOs (iii) decentralizing financial management to middle and secondary school levels
for non-wage expenditures; and (iv) promoting private sector delivery and financing. The Government did
not achieve, however, as much progress as it intended. Indeed, the PER assessment is that with the
resources it had, the Government could have reached its primary GER of 75% by 2000 if it had
implemented all of the financing reforms to which it had commnitted itself.
The Government's inability to move resources out of higher education and to introduce a cost-recovery
policy based on equity principles resulted in greater inequity in the distribution of public expenditures in
education and necessitated a compression of public financing for primary and middle schooling. The
Government's main weaknesses have been a hesitancy to build consensus with teachers, students and
parents on the main sector problems and the proposed policy reforms such as teacher re-deployment and
recruitment procedures, cost-recovery and limiting scholarships. As a result there has been a serious
backtracking on the reform agenda and costly delays in improving resource efficiency in the sector. There
is also a serious lack of explicit responsibility for implementing reforms and accountability in the system
which leads to bureaucratic inertia, a lack of incentives to create information systems to monitor reforms
and to use information to make decisions. For example, while extensive detailed and good quality
information exists on class size, little effort has been made to reduce the enormous variation in class size by
re-deploying teachers - one of the least costly ways to improve school learning. Another example concerns
the waste of resources associated with the teaching benefits that non-teaching staff still receive and the
proportion (20%) of teaching staff in Dakar and Thies who are supplementary teachers being paid full-time
but not working.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Expenditure Framework and Financing of QEFA.
Macroeconomic policy. The last four years have witnessed a turn around in the implementation of
economic reforms in Senegal, reversing two decades of poor economic management and lackluster growth
performance. The impact of policy reforms adopted since the devaluation of the CFA in January 1994 is
evident in terms of reduced fiscal and current account deficits, a return to pre-devaluation inflation levels
and an average growth rate exceeding 5 percent between 1996 and 1999. The Government continues to
pursue the consolidation of government finances, and increased efficiency in public spending, particularly
in the social sectors. The economic outlook is positive with growth and per capita incomes continuing to
increase. The Government's fiscal policy objectives are to reduce the overall fiscal deficit (on a
commitment basis, excluding grants) from 3.3% to 2.6 % of GDP over the next years. This can only be
accomplished with strong revenue collection efforts and continued control of recurrent expenditures,
together with an improvement in the quality and effectiveness of current outlays. With regard to overall
expenditure policy, the priorities are to; (i) streamline personnel expenditures; (ii) establish
budgeting-by-objectives for Health, Education and Justice; (iii) improve the programming of expenditures
in social sector; (iv) increase the share of share of education expenditure to primary education to reach a
GER of 75% by 2001 and UPE by 2010.
- 73 -



The persistence of inefficiencies in sector expenditure management has greatly influenced Government's
decision to not increase education's share of public resources. Nevertheless, it is committed to providing
33% of its national budget and 8% of the investment budget for the QEFA. Table 10 summarizes the
resource projections for the education sector based on assumptions (on an annual basis) that GDP (and
household's incomes) will grow at 5%, GDP deflator at 2%, population at 3%, household expenditures on
education will increase from 0.8% to 2% of household expenditures and local government's expenditure on
education will also increase from 5% of local budgets to 10% over the next 10 years.
Table 10: Macroeconomic and Resource Projections for education sector 2000 - 2003 (FCFA million)
2000           2001            2002            2003
Nominal GDP                                        3266285       3494925          3739570         4001340
Total Public Recurrent Expenditures                 316300       310700            327338          344793
Public Education Expenditures                       104379       102531             108021         113782
Total Public Investment                             110700       107600             112765          118178
Public Education Investment                           8856        8608                9021           9454
Total Education Expenditures                        113235       111139             117042          123236
Households total spending                            18987       21774              24971           28638
Household spending on public                          4359        5261                6152           6924
Household public spending on private                 14628        16513              18819          21714
Local government                                      1658         1813               1982           2166
Private Sector                                        3808        4236                4842            5774
Total domestic spending on education                137688       138962             148837          159814
Source: MEB; CREA Costs and Financing of PDEF, November 1999
* QEFA projections are for public education and do not include private sector and household spending on private education.
*net of interest and debt service
- 74 -



Major Policy Reforms. The QEFA covers the period 2000-2003 of a ten-year education development
plan (PDEF) developed by the Ministry of National Education. The QEFA/PDEF is a sector program
linking specific policy objectives to a medium term expenditure framework, integrating the investment and
wage and non-wage expenditures at the regional and national levels. The program aims to build on past
progress by improving the management capacity, efficiency and equity of the education sector, increasing
access and the quality of education. Specific policy objectives are to reach universal primary education by
2010, 50% of primary graduates going on to middle school and 60% of middle school graduates going to
high school and limiting the number of students at public universities. Other objectives aiming to improve
the quality of education include providing free books, reducing repetition rates to 10% throughout the
system and promoting the private sector at the higher levels, particularly in urban centers. Government's
decision to limit the share of public resources to education was confirmed during negotiations and means
that a very disciplined effort must be made to use resources efficiently. Thus, in order to improve
efficiency, equity and quality the Government's intends to implement a reform policy package comprising
expenditure enhancing, cost containment, cost- recovery and management reform policies.
(a) Cost containment policy reforms include:
(i) recruitment and wage policy for teachers. The Government has decided to mainstream its
experiment in recruiting volontaires at the primary level It has prepared legislation grand-fathering
the recruitment of civil servant teachers and introducing a new system beginning in the 2000 school
year. As a result of a national competition, all teachers will be hired at the IDEN level as "volontaires"
and receive an initial 6 month training program; after four years their status can be converted to a
contract teacher. The starting salary level of a volontaire will be about FCFA 80,000;
(ii) assigning already existing teachers to IDENs. Consequently, teachers will have to compete for jobs
at other locales if they want to move;
(iii) use multigrade teaching and intensively re-deploying teachers to reduce the variation in class size
and extend incomplete primary schools;
(iv) reduce the percentage of supplementary teachers to 5% by IDEN and introduce a policy of hiring
volontaires as supplementary teachers and re-deploy existing supplementary teachers;
(v) will grandfather civil servant teaching and introduce a new system of volontaire or contracted
teachers formiddle and secondary schools;
(vi) reduce the number of primary level teaching staff at the middle and secondary levels and undertake
various measures to reduce the administrative costs such as reducing the number of class monitors;
(vii) eliminating special teacher benefits and subsidies from non-teaching teachers;
(viii) improve teacher utilization by increasing the number of effective hours teachers work and
introducing polyvalent teachers at the middle school level.
(b) Expenditure increasing policies include:
(i) maintaining the education's share of the recurrent budget (after debt service) to 33%;
(ii) increasing the share of recurrent allocations to primary from 36% in 1999 to 41% in 2005 and
50% by 2010;
(iii) attaining UPE in all regions by 2010 as a means to improve equity;
(iv) improve the quality of education by increasing the share of expenditures to non-wage quality
enhancing inputs (such as books, inspection) and testing new initiatives to understand their
cost-effectiveness at improving learning including bilingual instruction, early childhood initiatives, the
introduction of small rural middle schools, reading programs and school health initiatives. The cost
implications have been estimated and are affordable.
(c) A program of cost-recovery will
(i) introduce fees at middle, secondary and higher education; The initial fees which will increase over
- 75 -



the life of the QEFA are estimated to be; pre-primary (FCFA 9,800 ), middle (FCFA) Community
(FCFA 700) Primary (FCFA 500), Middle (FCFA 11,200), Secondary (FCFA 15,000) and Higher
(31,012).
(ii) reduce scholarships to FCFA 3.3 billion or 13% of higher education expenditures.
(iii) decentralize more management to local levels and strengthen both financial and pedagogic
management at the school level with the introduction of school development plans.
Main Assumptions:
Expenditure Estimates. Detailed projections and a three-year budget integrating recurrent and investment
expenditures by level of education and by source of financing for the 10 year program were produced by
the Government and are found in the project files. (Preliminary estimates for the 2004 -2010 year are
available but since specific policies regarding cost-sharing and defining the roles of the public and private
sector in service delivery at secondary and higher can not yet be appraised, the estimates and financing plan
can not yet be validated for the second and third phase). Overall, 81% of the program expenditures will
finance recurrent expenditures and 19% investment expenditures during the first phase. Within recurrent
expenditures, wages will account for about 70% and 30% will be allocated for quality enhancing
expenditures (books, teaching material, training, school grants) - a significant improvement over the current
situation. The overriding policy objective of the QEFA is to attain a primary GER of 75% by 2003 and
UPE by 2010. Accordingly, primary education will receive 48.8% of total expenditures; 77% of all
investments under the program and 43% of recurrent funding. Table 11 summarizes the distribution of
expenditures by sub-sector and shows that almost 85% of all investment expenditures will support
increasing access and quality of education for basic education (pre-primary, literacy, community, primary
and middle school). The ratio of recurrent to investment expenditures is highest for: (i) pre-school and
literacy activities due to the low levels of investment in construction and equipment and an emphasis on
training and animation; and (ii) secondary and higher education because of higher unit operating costs for
running the system. As well, activities to improve quality in the first phase do not require a lot of
construction and equipment expenditures. Major investments will not occur until the second and third
phases once a policy framework conducive to significant expansion is adopted.
- 76 -



Table I 1: QEFA Intrasectoral distribution of expenditures (FCFA millions)
Sub-sector                      2000         2001         2002         2003          Total
Pre-school, Literacy, Community                   10206        10899         9942         9599        40646          7.0
Recurrent                                         9496        10899        9692         9418        38613           8.1
Investment                                         710          892         251           180        2033           1.9
Primary                                           65347        70895        73113        75327      284682          48.8
Recurrent                                        44009       48391        52346        55769       200515          42.5
Investment                                      21338        22505        20767        19558        84168         77.2
Middle                                            17305        14741        15881        17619       65546          11.2
Recurrent                                        13668        13968        15242        16671        59549         12.6
Investment                                        3637          772         639          948         5996           5.5
Secondary                                         15891        15395        16465        16732        64483         11.0
Recurrent                                        14096        14381       14713        15090        58280          12.3
Investment                                       1795         1012         1752         1641         6200          5.7
Higher                                            24109        24921        23770        24370        97170         16.6
Recurrent                                        22034       22792        23470        24370        92666          19.5
Investment                                       2075         2129          300            0         4504          4.1
Management                                         9808         8413         7017         6228        31466          5.4
Recurrent                                         6100         6605        6451         6228        25384           5.4
Investment                                        3708         1808         566             0        6082           5.6
Total                                            142667       145264       146189       149574       583694          100
Recurrent                                       109402       115145      120915       126546       472008          100
Investment                                      33265        29119        24275        22328       108987          8.1
Source: MEB; CREACosts and Financing of PDEF, November 1999
*QEFA estimates are for spending on public education and do not include private sector investments nor household spending in the private sector.
Table 12 summarizes the composition of the program for years 2000-2003 by objective, category of
expenditure and source of financing. The total cost of the first phase of QEFA is estimated to be US$926
million; of which 69% is for increasing access, 26% for improving the quality of education and 5% is
allocated for improving the management of the system and rendering it more decentralized. Government is
the largest financier of the education sector, providing 79.7% of total resources followed by donors with
15%, households and local governments with 4% and 1.3% respectively. Donors will finance 62.3% of all
investment expenditures. Central and local government will provide 37.5% of investment resources, mainly
for construction services and counterpart financing. For recurrent expenditures, donors and households
will each provide about 4% of recurrent expenditures for training, services and materials. Household
participation represents fees which will be used to finance quality inputs at the post-primary levels. Central
government is the main source of financing for recurrent expenditures financing 90.1% of expenditures -
mainly for salaries and other operating costs. Not surprisingly, Government's main policy reforms are
aimed at improving the efficiency of the wage bill.
- 77 -



Table 12: QEFA: Costs and financing estimates for public education 2000 - 2003 ($US million)
I
Program objective             1998         2000         2001         2002          2003         TOTAL
(00 - 03)
ACCESS                                 107,73      149,73       156,89       161,29         169,58        637,49
Recurrent                           93,66        112,04       117,91        125,38        134,14        489,48
Government                           93,66      112,04       117,91       125,38        134,14         489,48
Investment                            14,07       37,68        38,98        35,91          35,44        148,01
Government                            7,97       11,25        10,93        11,46          12,01         45,64
Local government                     1,67        2,00         2,19         2,39           2,61          9,19
Donors                               4,42       24,44        25,86        22,06          20,82         93,18
QUALITY                                 47,92       61,16       60,33         60,31         60,96         242,77
Recurrent                              46,23       51,93        55,96        57,89          58,43        224,21
Government                          41,29       44,25        36,24        37,63          38,16        156,29
Households                           4,50        6,92         8,35          9,77         10,99         36,02
Local government                     0,44        0,53         0,58          0,63          0,69          2,42
Donors                               0,00        0,23        10,80          9,87          8,58         29,48
Investment                             1,68        9,23         4,37          2,42          2,54          18,56
Government                           1,59        2,25         2,19          2,29          2,40  |       9,13
Local government                     0,09        0,11         0,12         0,13           0,14          0,48
Donors                               0,00        6,88        2,07          0,00           0,0o          8,95
MANAGEMENT                               9,65       15,57        11,77         9,55           8,90         45,79
Recurrent                              9,25        9,68         8,90          8,65          8,30  .      35,53
Government                           9,25        9,39         8,60         8,45           8,30         34,73
Donors                               0,00        0,29         0,30         0,20           0,00          0,80
Investment                             0,40        5,89         2,87          0,90          0,60          10,25
Government                           0,40        0,56         0,55         0,57           0,60          2,28
Donors                               0,00        5,32         2,32         0,33           0,00          7,97
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                     165,30      226,46      228,99        231,15         239,45        926,04
Total Recurrent                       149,14      173,65       182,77       191,93         200,87        749,22
Government                         144,20      165,68       162,75        171,46        180,61        680,50
Households                           4,50        6,92         8,35          9,77         10,99         36,02
Local Government                     0,44        0,53         0,58          0,63          0,69          2,42
Donors                               0,00        0,53        11,10         10,07          8,58          30,28
Total Investment                       16,15       52,80        46,22        39,22          38,58        176,82
Government                           9,97       14,06        13,66         14,32         15,01          57,05
Local Government                     1,76        2,11         2,30         2,52           2,75          9,67
Donors                               4,42       36,64        30,26        22,38         20,82         110,10
FINANCING BY SOURCE
Government                         154,17      179,74       176,41        185,78        195,61        737,54
Households                           4,50        6,92         8,35          9,77         10,99         36,02
Local Government                     2,20        2,63         2,88          3,15          3,44         30,28
Donors                               4,42       37,17        41,35         32,46         29,41         140,38
TOTAL FINANCING                        165,30      226,46       228,99       231,15         239,45        926,04
Source: MEB; CREACosts and Financing ofPDJEF November 1999
Table 13 breaks down domestic spending by sources of financing. Total public spending on education as a
proportion of GDP, after increasing slightly in 2000 will taper off slightly during declining to about 3.1%
of GDP in 2003. Households, local government and the private sector are all expected to increase spending
on education services pushing expenditures to about 4% of GDP in 2003. Participation will be
forthcoming from: (i) the private sector for investment in infrastructure (from bank credit or savings); (ii)
households for purchase of materials and for fees both for private services and for public schools; and (iii)
local governments for maintenance, construction and some services. Donor financed investments and
- 78 -



recurrent spending as a share of GDP represents an additional 0.6% of GDP annually.
Table 13: Education Expenditure Projections as % of GDP
________________ __   1998  2000       2001        2002           2003
Total domestic spending                           3.60        4.20        4.00         4.00          4.00
Of which
Total Public Education                           3.4         3.50        3.20        3.10           3.10
Public recurrent education expenditures         3.1         3,20        2,90         2,90          2,80
Household expenditures*                         0.5         0.60        0.60         0.70          0.70
Local Government                                0.0         0.51        0.52         0.53          0.54
Private financing                               0.0         0.12        0.12         0.13          0.14
Source: MEB; CREA Costs and Financing ofPDEF, November 1999
*Household spending on public and private schooling.
Government recurrent expenditures. Providing 76.3% of QEFA resources and with 92.3% of those
resources financing recurrent expenditures, Government plays a deciding role in improving their efficiency
and cost-effectiveness. With respect to intra-sectoral allocations, the proposed program should improve the
quality of public recurrent expenditures. As is shown in Table 14, the share of recurrent expenditures
allocated to primary will increase to 44% by 2003 (and to 50% by the end of the program in 2010) up from
36% in 1996 due to hiring on average 2000 new teachers annually and expenditures on other inputs related
to improving learning at school level. The share of recurrent financing to middle schooling will decline from
15% to about 12.%. While the relatively higher rate of social returns and its importance for improving
equity in the distribution of public expenditures would lead one to argue for an increase share of sector
resources to this level, the decline is a result of a combination of efficiency gains (reducing the number of
new teachers that the system will require) and the growing importance of private schools (absorbing more
students and teachers). Middle school's share of investment is, nevertheless quite high representing the
increased construction of middle schools - many in rural areas as shown in Table 11. The share of
government's recurrent expenditure going to secondary, increases from 15% to 17% primarily because of
the difficulty in reducing unit wage costs at this level and increased expenditures on quality inputs. The
share to higher education will decline from 24.9% in 1998 to 20% by 2003 and 18% by 2010, primarily as
a result of reducing enrollments (from 27,300 to 23,500) rationalizing staff and limiting scholarship to
FCFA 3.5 billion annually. Administrative expenditures will decline from 6% of total recurrent
expenditure to 4.2% by 2003 as a result of improving efficiency of headquarters staff and freezing
allocations to this function.
Table 14: Intrasectoral Allocation of Government Recurrent Expenditures
(as % of Public Recurrent Expenditures)
1998       2000       2001        2002        2003
Administration                          6.0%       5.2%        4.9%       4.6%        4.2%
Pre-school                              0.5%       0.5%        0.5%       0.5%        0.5%
Literacy                                1.0%       1.0%        1.0%        1.0%       1.0%
Community Schools                       0.0%       0.0%        0.0%       0.0%        0.0%
Primary                                39.0%       41.0%      42.0%       43.1%      44.2%
Middle                                 15.0%       13.8%      13.3%       12.6%       12.3%
Secondary total                        15.5%       16.1%      17.0%       17.3%       17.5%
Higher Education                       23.0%       21.9%      21.4%       21.9%      20.4%
Source: MEB; CREACosts and Financing ofPDEF, November 1999
Regarding the economic composition of governrent expenditures, wages' declining share to 70% of
recurrent expenditures on education will allow for more expenditures on quality inputs - in particular
supervision, training and other pedagogic materials. At primary, for example, by 2003, expenditures on
- 79 -



learning materials will account for 13% of expenditures and wages, 73% of expenditures, down from 90%
in 1998. Reducing the share of expenditures to wages is a result of the recruitment policy of hiring
volontaires and contract teachers, reducing the number of supplementary teachers at primary, using
polyvalent teachers at middle school, as well as eliminating payment of teaching benefits to non-teaching
civil servants. In higher education, the freeze on scholarships will reduce their share of recurrent
expenditures to 13.3% in 2003, down from 15.3% in 1998, allowing for increased spending on pedagogic
inputs.
Household financing. The Government intends to introduce greater cost sharing in public education
through the introduction of school fees and the promotion of private sector delivery. The government also
intends to provide free books at primary. As a result of these reforms, family contribution to education
expenditures as a share of total expenditures will decrease at primary, increase marginally for middle
school and more than double for secondary and increase almost fourfold at universities (see Table 15). The
fee schedule used to develop the financing plan for QEFA has not yet been discussed with schools,
students and teachers but this will be done in 2000 at a Fee Charter adopted by October 2000. Four major
issues which will be addressed during the implementation of the first phase are; (i) ensuring transparent and
more autonomous and accountable management practices are put in place at the school level; (ii) ensuring
that the quality and learning by children improves given that families are paying more for education
services; (iii) monitoring the impact of cost-recovery on poor families; and (iv) agreement on a Fee Charter
with stake holders. The successful implementation of cost-recovery and a policy framework that does not
negatively impact of poorer groups will be a trigger for the Bank support of a second phase.
Table 15. Household financing of public ucation by level per student (as a O/o of to al expenditures in public education)
1998            1998            2003                 2003
Per student     Recurrent       Per student     Recurrent expenditures
Level of Education                expenditures    expenditures    expenditures        (as % of total)
(FCFA)       (as % of total)     (Fcfa)
Primary                              576              2.0             407                  0.5
Middle                               8484             8.2            11000                 8.6
General Secondary                    12453            6.8            34311                 13.5
Technical Secondary                  13245            6.3            34101                 17.3
Professional Secondary               16787            3.8            100828               18.2
Higher                               20888            2.6            105888               10.0
Source: MEB; CREA Costs and Financina of PDEF. November 1999
Private Sector. The role of private service delivery will become increasingly important at the post-primary
levels responding to demand at these levels. It is estimated that the proportion of students in private middle
schools will increase from 27% to 33% of students, while at secondary levels, it will go from
approximately 20% to 30% by the end of the first phase. The largest shift will be at higher education,
where the private sector will take about 25% of students in 2003, up from 13% in 1998 Overall, the
private education (investment and household fees) will account for approximately 0.7% of GDP compared
to 0.4% in 1998.
Poverty Dimension. Although the QEFA covers the entire education system quite comprehensively, the
proposed policies for basic education are likely to have the most direct impact upon poverty reduction.
Increasing primary education's share of recurrent expenditures to 44% by 2003 coupled with the adoption
of a recruitment policy of hiring volontaire and contracted teachers will benefit children in rural areas and
from the poorest households, where the GER is the lowest. Using multigrade schools in rural areas more
extensively, targeting school construction to poor areas and the construction of small rural middle schools
will respond to factors contributing to low demand for education by poor families. The provision of free
textbooks will reverse a policy that in the past deterred children from the lowest quintiles from attending
school. Special attention to the special needs of educating girls will aim to reduce the gap between girls'
- 80 -



and boys' enrollment, drop-out, repetition and completion rates. Partial cost-recovery could have a
negative impact on the demand for education, particularly at middle school level. The Government has
decided to allow local school associations some say in determining school fees. This issue will be monitored
in the first phase and hopefully will lead to a criteria based school subsidy system in later phases.
Table 16: Primary enrollment rates by region 1998 - 2003.
Region                        1998       2000        2001       2002       2003
Dakar                        87.97%     90.25%      91.42%     92.60%     93.79%
Ziguinchor                   87.00%     89.46%      90.71%     91.99%     93.28%
Diourbel                     29.13%     37.28%      42.17%     47.71%     53.97%
Saint-Louis                  62.03%     68.25%      71.59%     75.09%     78.76%
Kaolack                      40.06%     48.10%      52.71%     57.76%     63.29%
Tamba                        57.91%     64.59%      68.22%     72.05%     76.10%
ThiZs                        57.07%     63.84%      67.53%     71.42%     75.54%
Louga                        45.42%     53.18%      57.55%     62.28%     67.39%
Fatick                       46.20%     53.92%      58.25%     62.92%     67.97%
Kolda                        54.00%     61.08%      64.96%     69.09%     73.48%
Sdndgal                      58.61%     64.74%      68.13%     71.76%     75.66%
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
Cost-effectiveness. The policy to hire volontaire and contract teachers, grand- fathering civil servant
teachers through attrition and retirement is the single most cost-effective policy that will be implemented
under the QEFA. Studies carried out during preparation show that teacher status has no bearing on the
quality of teaching. If the Government did not follow through with this change by converting volontaires/
contractual teachers to civil servants, itwould represent, on average FCFA 2.3 billion or 20% of the
government's recurrent budget and thereby comprising the attainment of UPE by 2010. Other measures
which will improve the cost-effectiveness of the program are reducing in half the training period for new
teachers to 6 months for primary teachers one year for secondary teachers, and instead of the traditional I
to 2 years for primary teachers. While detailed economic analysis was not done for the construction
program, donors and government have agreed to adopt low-cost construction standards and local
governments will be responsible for maintenance which will prolong the life of school buildings minimizing
future rehabilitation and replacement costs. Finally, the policies aiming at improving the quality of
education in secondary and middle schools were validated by a study done in preparation which concluded
that improving the management of schools, the provision of books and increasing the proportion of
mandatory hours that teachers actually taught were the most cost-effective policies to adopt. Under the
QEFA, various initiatives will be evaluated for their cost-effectiveness, including early childhood
development programs, adult literacy, community schools, national language teaching, various textbook
provision schemes and private sector delivery of middle and secondary education services to guide
decisionmakers about future policy decisions.
Sensitivity Analysis. A detailed sensitivity analysis was carried out to analyze what impact changes in
the policy package had on attaining program objectives. This analysis concluded that:
(i) A continuation of past policies would result in a GER of 73% at the end of 2010 instead of UPE;
(ii) The policy to recruit volontaires and contracted teachers, grand-fathering civil servant teachers
through attrition and retirement plays a crucial role in meeting UPE within the budget constraints set.
(iii) Allocating 50% of expenditures to primary education by year 2000 is a crucial policy for meeting
the UPE objective. Limiting primary's share to 40%, (but implementing other policies ) would result in
a primary GER of 88% by 2010. (However, the GER for secondary and middle school would be
- 81 -



significantly higher.) Allocating 65% to primary could be politically unacceptable.
(iv) The primary GER at the end of 2010 would be less than 80% if the current policy framework was
extended.
(v) Improved teacher utilization, reduction of supplementary teachers to 5% of primary teachers and
redeployment of non-teaching teachers reduces unit costs significantly in the early years allowing for
increases in non wage expenditures and reducing net hiring of teachers.
(vi) A growth rate of 5% is a necessary condition (but not sufficient) for the Government but also local
governments and households to mobilize needed resources.
(vii) Implementing partial cost-recovery is essential to improving the equity incidence of public
expenditures (allowing the intra-sectoral transfer of resources to primary) and the quality of
expenditures at middle and secondary education.
Risks. The main risks to the program are related to (i) economic growth being less than anticipated which
would reduce resource availability of central and local government as well as households; (ii) incomplete
implementation of major reforms with respect to teacher recruitment, cost recovery and other cost
containment reforms related to teacher management. The growth scenario used to do the resource
projections, is the medium growth scenario used by Government and other intemational institutions. If
economic growth rates are significantly lower than anticipated, it would be necessary to revisit the
financing plan in order to reach program objectives. This would require, increasing the level and share of
resources to education or reducing program objectives. The Government is committed to implementing the
various cost containment measures at the beginning of the program, in order to maximize program results
in the short and medium term.
The Government agreed during negotiations to prepare a detailed action plan laying out the various steps to
involve all stakeholders in the implementation of policy reforms. Concerning the partial implementation of
policy measures, this risk has already been minimized to a certain extent due to the high degree of local
ownership of the program given the fact that the background studies have been carried out locally with
wide discussion among Government officials. Policy reforms relating to the recruitment policy have been
discussed and negotiated with unions although this has not been done in formal sense. The Government
must, however, begin to engage teachers, students and parents in reforms related to cost-recovery,
introduction of polyvalent teachers and other teaching changes and school management if these are to be
successfully implemented. The implementation of cost containment measures will require decisive and
continued leadership. Rapidly increasing GER in low-enrollment areas such as Diourbel, Louga and
Kaolack will be a challenge. The QEFA ensures that the financial resources will be made available,
Government must however, put its most committed and talented people who are willing to work with local
authorities.
Economic and sector work. The preparation of the QEFA was based on a substantive amount of
economic analysis. Over the next three years additional studies are planned in order to adequately monitor
and evaluate the financial and economic aspects of the sector expenditure program. This work will include;
(i) developing the information systems needed to evaluate the internal and external efficiency of the QEFA;
(ii) ensuring biannual updates for QEFA budget estimates and expenditures; (iii) carrying out studies on
various issues such as the demand for education, cost-effectiveness of secondary and middle education,
labor tracking studies for university and professional training, the impact of education on agricultural
productivity and health; and (iv) training government staff in monitoring financial indicators and
evaluation methodologies. The Government will also prepare an annual financial report for the PDEF
which will provide an exhaustive summary of the financial execution of the PDEF, the experience with
cost-recovery and make recommendations for improvement.
- 82 -



Table 17 QEFA: Financial Performance Indicators
Indicators                               2000         2001        2002          2003
Education share of govemment's recurrent budget                    33%        33%          33%           33%
Primary as % of education recurrent budget                         41%        42%          43%          44%
Learning materials as % of primary budget                          10%        13%           13%          13%
Scholarships as % ofhigher education budget                        14%         13%          12%          12%
Household financing as % of publicmiddle school                    n.a         13%          13%         8.6%
Household financing as % of secondary schools                      n.a        20%          21%          16%
Household financing as % of higher education                       n.a        12%           14%          10%
% of Middle Schools with school improvement plans                  24%        50%          75%          90%
% of Secondary Schools with school improvement plans               50%        75%          90%          100%
Private sector expenditures as % of GDP
Preparation of Annual Financial Reports
Annual review and discussion of economic studies
- 83 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Years Ending
(Senegal FY -- Jan/Dec)
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3     Year 4    Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          53.0       46.0       39.0       39.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs           174.0      183.0     192.0      201.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        227.0      229.0      231.0      240.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing            227.0      229.0      231.0      240.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   3.5       12.5      17.5       16.5        0.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                180.0      176.0      186.0     196.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             3.0        3.0        3.0        3.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             36.5       32.5      17.5       16.5        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    7.0        8.0       10.0      11.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing   227.0      229.0      231.0      240.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 84 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Procurement
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was conducted in July 1994. The findings of this
review remain valid. In general, Senegal's procurement laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA
guidelines. No special exceptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in Credit documents since
Senegal's procurement practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in
local regulations. IDA-financed Works and Goods will be purchased in accordance with World Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents will be
used for all International Competitive Bidding procedure. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised
locally would be carried out in accordance with Senegal's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable to
IDA provided that: (i) any bidder is given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation
and bidder qualifications are clearly specified in the bidding documents; (iii) no preference margin is
granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible foreign firms are not precluded from the competition; and
(v) prior to issuing the first call for bids, a draft standard bidding document is submitted to IDA and
deemed acceptable by it. The standard bidding document for NCB will be based on the World Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents, with appropriate modifications for advertisement of the Invitation For Bids
(which may be limited to the major national daily newspaper), the currency of the bid price and payment,
applicable laws, etc. IDA-financed Consultant Services will be procured in accordance with the World
Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World bank Borrowers, published
in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. Table A below summarizes the
procurement arrangements by category of expenditure.
Procurement methods (Table A)
1.    Civil works. During phase I of the program (2000-2002), the construction program is mainly
composed as follows: (i) construction of about 6,300 classrooms for basic education (6,000 for lower
basic and about 300 for upper basic), including the replacement of 600 dilapidated classrooms beyond
repair, according to standard design and specifications and criteria for resource allocation established by
the DCES and approved by the Local Governments (municipalities/rural communities) through a
Memorandum of Agreement to be signed by the MEN and the three associations of elected local officials;
(ii) provision of latrines (1,000), water supply (600), and offices for primary schools lacking such facilities;
(iii) repair/rehabilitation of approximately 2,800 dilapidated basic and secondary level classrooms; and (iv)
construction of a Regional University Center (CUR) in Bambey. The IDA credit will finance the
construction of 1,000 classrooms and rehabilitation of 600 classrooms for basic education (lower cycle)
and the provision of latrines and wells for existing primary schools lacking such facilities. The remainder
of the construction program for basic and secondary education is expected to be financed by the
continuation, extension and/or initiation of support from the Government, the private sector, and other
donors such as JICA, AFD, KFW, OPEC, AfDB, CIDA and NGOs such as Aide & Action, Plan
International, Paul Gerand-Lajoie, etc. The Government has reached agreement with the three associations
of Local Government elected officials (Presidents of Regional Councils, Mayors, and Presidents of Rural
Communities) and a number of key partners (notably IDA and AFD) that the owner's responsibility (CMA)
of the Local Governments and the MEN (as the case may be) should be delegated to a Contract
Management Agency (CMA); the agreement includes the use common standard designs and unit costs, and
a common mechanism for controlling construction quality and for the monitoring and evaluation
- 85 -



procedures.
School construction and rehabilitation. The program financed under the IDA credit is composed of a
large number of small construction and rehabilitation contracts for schools largely scattered throughout the
country, with contracts generally amounting to less than US$500,000 equivalent. In the event that any
contract exceeds this threshold, the procedures governing International Competitive Bidding (ICB) will
apply, as set forth in the World Bank's Guidelines. In such a case, the World Bank's standard document for
works contracts to be procured under ICB: Droit Civil, dated January 1995 and including corrigenda Nos.
1 through 3, will be used. School construction and rehabilitation contracts with an estimated unit cost of
less than US$500,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$14.3 million equivalent will be
procured by the CMA. The CMA will apply provisions of Schedule 3 of the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) for procurement procedures. Standard Bidding Documents for NCB and local shopping
set-up in the most recent AGETIP Procedures Manual (dated...), which have been found acceptable to IDA,
would be used for the school construction and rehabilitation program. Any changes and revisions in the
Procedures Manual would be subject to IDA prior review. Contracts for small works estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million equivalent, would be procured
under lump-sum fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained in writing from at least
three qualified local contractors. The invitation must include a detailed description of the works including
basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and
relevant drawings when applicable. The contract will be awarded to the contractor whose submission is
substantially conform, and who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he
demonstrates that he has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. Most of these
contracts, to be managed by the CMA, would be for works relating to minor repairs to classrooms in rural
areas.
2. Goods. The goods to be financed under the IDA credit (totaling US$13 million equivalent) will be
grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent to be procured through International Competitive
Bidding in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines. These goods include school supplies, reprinting
of textbooks based on INEADE manuscripts (prior to implementation of the new strategy for supply of
school textbooks described below), office furniture and equipment, computers, vehicles and spare parts,
intended for primary and secondary schools and Teacher Training Schools (EFIs), as well as central and
deconcentrated departments of the MEN. However, contracts for school supplies that have to be purchased
on an annual basis, and for other goods and equipment locally available, with a unit value exceeding
US$30,000 equivalent and which cannot be grouped together into packages exceeding US$100,000
equivalent and which are unlikely to be of interest to foreign suppliers because of their small size and the
geographical dispersion of the delivery points, will be awarded on the basis of NCB in accordance with
procedures acceptable by IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$4.15 million equivalent. Small quantities
of items such as office supply, consumable materials and spare parts normally considered to be standard
items and which cannot be grouped together into packages of at least US$30,000 equivalent wi'l be
purchased locally through local shopping based on price quotations obtained in writing from at least at
least three eligible suppliers being asked in writing to provide quotations, provided that the aggregate
amount of such contracts does not exceed US$0.1 million equivalent.
Books and other instructional materials for classroom library-corners, schools and EFIs will be the
subject of a list of eligible titles established by INEADE on the basis of recent catalogues and other
documentary sources. On the basis of this general list, specific lists will be drawn up by the IDENs and
consolidated by INEADE for procurement to be financed by IDA, the Nordic Fund or other partners.
Purchases to be financed by IDA will be grouped into packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent and
procured through International Competitive Bidding. Small purchases of books and instructional materials
- 86 -



which cannot be grouped to make up lots of US$100,000 would be procured under National and
International Shopping, provided that the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed US$0.3
million equivalent.
3. Textbooks for the lower cycle of basic education The MEN has decided to develop and implement a
new policy of decentralized multiple choice with the objective to contribute, not only to raise the quality of
the education service, but also to support the development of the national book-publishing industry, which
is viewed as critical to ensuring the long-term sustainable supply of textbooks in all Senegalese schools.
The textbooks for the lower cycle of basic education (formerly primary education) to be financed by IDA
will be procured through an international competitive bidding procedure comprising four stages: (a)
selection of titles at the central level; (b) selection of multiple titles at decentralized level; (c) central
purchase of the selected books; and (d) delivery to the IDENS/schools. A specific module of the Manual of
Procedures for the QEFA Program for textbooks will be developed by the INEADE. However, in view of
the time that will be required to implement the new process, it is likely that only stages (a) and (b) can be
carried out during the first phase of the PDEF corresponding to the QEFAProgram financed under the
present IDA credit.
(a) Selection of titles at the central level per subject and per grade, on the basis of which the IDENs
will further make their selection, will be done centrally and managed by the DAGE. For the selection,
potential bidders will be invited to submit for each title: (i) a sample of lessons, fully edited, illustrated,
laid out, formatted and printed; (ii) the table of contents; (iii) the structure of the book as a whole; (iv)
dummy; and (v) price quotations for a specified range of copies from 2,000 to 250,000. The selection
will be based on the bidders' professional and financial capacity, the quality of sample lessons, and the
prices quoted for a specified range of copies. The evaluation will lead to the selection of two or three
different titles per subject and per grade (as specified in the bidding documents), corresponding to the
offers which will be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and with the lowest evaluated
bid price, provided that the bidders are also qualified to perform the contracts. Successful bidders will
develop the titles and submit camera-ready copies to the Ministry/DAGE for approval. They will also
supply a first print run of 2,000 copies for each title at the price quoted in their bid for this quantity.
(b)    Selection of multiple titles at decentralized level Prior to the selection at the decentralized
level, the Ministry will inform each IDEN of the budget allocated to the IDEN for textbooks. This
budget will be determined on the basis of the projected enrollment for the schools located in the IDEN's
area of operations, and the estimated unit cost for each set of books per student will be based on the
prices quoted by the bidders. INEADE will be responsible to disseminate the first print-run of each
selected title to the IDENs for evaluation and selection by local committees. Selection committees will
be chaired by the IDEN, and comprise experienced teachers and experts from specialized NGOs
operating in the education sector in the region, representatives of local authorities, and Parents
Association representatives as witnesses for transparency insurance. Selection by IDENs will be based
on the quality of textbook, unit price, and the allocated textbook budget.
(c) Central purchase of the selected books. The DAGE will calculate the quantities for each title and
purchase the total amount from the concerned publishers at the price quoted by such publishers in their
bids for the quantity in question.
(d) Delivery to the IDENs/schools and central payment Publishers will deliver the textbooks to the
IDEN's warehouses or the schools and receive certification of delivery from the IDENs or schools after
each technical committee has verified that the deliveries conform to the results of the selection process.
Each supplier will collect the acceptance certificates and submit them to the DAGE for payment. In
- 87 -



cases where the books are not shipped directly to the schools but to the IDEN's warehouses instead,
each IDEN will be responsible for forwarding the textbooks to the schools. The school committee,
comprising representatives of the school's teaching staff and of the parents association, will provide a
receipt to the IDEN. All receipts will be sent by the IDENs to the appropriate IA for regional
monitoring purposes, and consolidated at the central level through the Information and Monitoring
System, for central monitoring and reporting by the DPRE which will be responsible for producing the
periodic reports on the textbooks component.
Textbooks for the upper cycle of basic education and for secondary education will be procured
off-the-shelf through selection of multiple titles per subject/grade, through a process similar to the above
mentioned process for the lower cycle of basic education.
4.     Consultant services. Consultant services to be financed by IDA (totaling US$8.9 million
equivalent) would be for: (i) studies: architectural design, civil engineering services (including preparation
of bidding documents and supervision of works), accounting system, school evaluation system, integrated
computerized data processing system to track and analyze school data, financial management, monitoring
and evaluation; (ii) CMA services; (iii) twinning arrangements with international institutions for knowledge
transfer and technical assistance in the area of learning assessment, local languages, inservice training
management and other educational areas, (iv) technical assistance in the area of skill development,
vocational training, capacity building in management; (v) training; (vi) contracts with NGOs for services
appropriate to their specific strengths; (vii) research contracts (other than research financed out of the FRU
); (viii) building MEN's capacity in education economics and used of the financial model of the education
system, (viii) technical and financial audits. Consultant services will be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (published in January
1997 and updated in September 1997 and January 1999). Standard World Bank documents -Standard
Request for Proposal: Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and revised April 1998 and July 1999 -
will be used whenever appropriate. Recruitment will be through competition among qualified firms
short-listed on the basis of replies to a Request for Expression of Interest, in which the selection will be
based on the Quality-and Cost-Based Selection procedure (QCBS). For financial audits (of a standard
nature), the Least-Cost Selection would be most appropriate method. Services of lectures and small studies
that can be provided by Individual Consultants, will be selected through comparison of qualifications
among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly. When the estimated amount is
greater than US$200,000 equivalent, a Request for Expression of Interest will be published in a national
newspaper and in Development Business. Single-Source Selection will be exceptionally used. The
management of construction works contracts and contracts for the supervision of these works will be
contracted to AGETIP selected through Single-Source Selection (for an amount less to US$0.9 million
equivalent), because these services performed by an international firm will be more expensive, and there is
no other local firm with such an expertise in contract management. AGETIP will contract necessary
consultant services for the conception and the supervision of works, in accordance with the procedures set
up in Schedule 3 of the DCA for procurement procedures. The Research Center for Applied Economics (
CREA) has been selected through Single-Source Selection to help the MEN in monitoring, financial and
economic evaluation of the QEFA, because the services of this university research center - that played a
crucial role in the education public expenditures review, et developed the financial and economic simulation
model for the program - assume a unique and exceptional role, and no consultant from the private sector
can offer an appropriate alternative. The amount of this contract will be less than the equivalent of
$150,000.
5.     Grants. The MEN will provide grants in the following cases: (i) School Improvement projects, (ii)
Literacy Subprojects, and (iii) Vocational Training projects.
- 88 -



(a) School Improvement Projects. During the QFEA program, original methods of financing
educational activities will be tested in certain regions, and small grants will be available for school
projects in basic education (lower and upper cycles) and in secondary education. This component will
be financed, as regards basic education, by the AfDB and the CFD in certain regions where those
institutions operate, and by IDA. Each individual grant financed by IDA will amount less than
US$2,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.4 million equivalent. In parallel, the FAC
will finance School Projects in three regions for middle and secondary education. The flow of funds,
implementation and accounting arrangements of School Improvement Projects will be governed by a
specific manual of procedures, the drafting of which has already been started during the program
preparation phase. The manual will include a detailed description of: (i) the system for channeling
resources to the decentralized level; (ii) eligibility criteria for school projects; (iii) a sample document
for requesting financing for a school project; (iv) the system for appraising and approving requests for
financing; (v) the disbursement system; (vi) the system for monitoring and supervising school projects;
and (vii) evaluation and audit. Such has been the degree of coordination among the development
partners that the proposed manual of procedures will be common to all the school projects, regardless
of the source of the financing. The manual of procedures is being prepared by the MEN with CFD
financing and in coordination with all of the development partners involved in order to ensure that it
can be used for all sources of financing. Submission by the Borrower of a Manual of Procedures for
School Improvement Projects acceptable to IDA is a condition for disbursement of the IDA funds in
this category.
(b) Literacy Subprojects. The IDA credit for the QEFA project will be used from the year 2000 on
to finance adult literacy subprojects as a follow-up to the successful Female Literacy project (PAPF)
financed under Credit 2873-SE since 1995. Each individual IDA-financed grant to subprojects will not
exceed US$60,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$11.8 million equivalent. The
institutional arrangements and financing mechanisms for this QEFA/EQPT program component will, in
accordance with the request of the Minister responsible for Basic Education and National Languages,
be identical to those for the PAPF project. Literacy subprojects will continue to be executed by private
literacy operators, under subproject contracts signed between such operators and AGETIP which is
responsible for contract management, while the quality of the training provided is monitored and
evaluated by the DAEB. The procedures for selection of operators, eligibility criteria for subprojects,
and sample contracts are described in detail in the PAPF manual of procedures, which has been used
satisfactorily since 1995 and which will be adjusted as necessary to enable it to be used for the QEFA
program by the 4 main donors in this area: CIDA, KfW, IDA and GoS and to be in line with the
decentralization process. Submission by the Borrower of the Manual of Procedures for Literacy
Subprojects as adjusted for the QEFA program will be a condition for disbursement of the IDA funds
in this category.
(c) Vocational Training Projects. The IDA credit for the QEFA program will finance Technical
Education and Vocational Training projects prepared and submitted by economic operators,
professional bodies and/or vocational training institutions. The MEN plans to set up a Vocational
Training Support Fund based on lessons learned from the Professional Training Project for
Employment (Projet Formation Professionnelle pour I 'Emploi) financed by the FAC. This Fund
would comprise a tripartite Administrative Board (Conseil d'Administration) including representatives
of Ministries, Employers, and Employees, and an Executive Secretariat. Each individual IDA-financed
grant for training projects will not exceed US$10,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000 equivalent. The eligibility criteria for beneficiaries, the mechanisms for evaluation and
selection of training projects, and the mechanisms for payment, monitoring and evaluation will be laid
- 89 -



down in a manual of procedures to be prepared in the course of the first year of the QEFA program by
the MEN with the continuing support of the French FAC, in close collaboration with employer
representatives in the Competitiveness and Growth Study Group (Groupe de Reflexion pour la
Competitivite et la Croissance - GRCC). The French Cooperation have agreed to coordinate the
various development partners in order to ensure that this Manual of Procedures will be compatible with
the financing mechanisms employed by the various partners likely to contribute to the Fund.
Submission by the Borrower of the Manual of Procedures for the Vocational Training Support Fund,
deemed acceptable to IDA, will be a condition for disbursement of the IDA funds in this category,
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
0 penlt itir ----E}; ory ,, t   ICS                                         N.8..       To;tai; |l Cost
1. Works                           0.00           14.31          0.50          45.50          60.00
(0.00)        (11.93)         (0.42)         (0.00)        (12.34)
2. Goods                           8.68           4.15           0.33          40.02          53.28
(7.23)         (3.85)         (0.15)         (0.00)        (11.24)
3. Consultants Services            0.00           0.00           8.89           15.28         24.15
(0.00)         (0.00)         (7.41)         (0.00)         (7.41)
4. Training                        0.00           0.00           6.50          27.86          34.42
(0.00)         (0.00)         (5.42)         (0.00)         (5.42)
5. Grants                          0.00           0.00           11.45          15.00         26.50
(0.00)         (0.00)         (9.68)         (0.00)         (9.68)
6. Operating Costs                 0.00           0.73           7.22          718.94         727.00
(0.00)         (0.22)         (3.03)         (0.00)         (3.25)
7. PPF                             0.00           0.00           0.65           0.00           0.65
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.65)         (0.00)         (0.65)
Total                           8.68           19.18          35.54         862.60         926.00
(7.23)        (16.00)        (26.77)         (0.00)        (50.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes: (i) civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping; (ii) consulting services,
services of contracted staff of the project management office; (iii) training; (iv) grants; (v) incremental
operating costs; and (vi) PPF reimbursement.
31Includes: (i) School Improvement Projects; (ii) literacy sub-projects, (iii) vocational training projects.
Includes: (i) offices supplies, vehicle operating costs; (ii) travel and supervision costs; (iii) support staff,
(iv) construction and equipment maintenance cost, but excludes salaries of civil-servants.
- 90 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Contracts for works estimated above the threshold of US$200,000 equivalent, and contracts for supplies
estimated above the threshold of US$100,000 equivalent, which are to be financed by IDA or by other
donors administered by IDA, are subject to prior review by IDA. The first five contract for works and the
same number for goods procured under NCB will be subject to prior review. Similarly the first five
contracts for works and the same number for goods procured under National Shopping will be subject to
prior review. The prior review requirement will apply to 66 percent of the total amount of contracts for
goods and 100 percent of the amount of contracts for textbooks. For IDA-financed works contracts which
are to be managed by a Contract Management Agency (CMA), an external auditor will be recruited to
conduct a post review of the procurement procedures employed by the CMA, in accordance with terms of
referece acceptable by the World Bank and included in the CMA's Manual of Procedures. The report of
this external auditor will be transmitted to the AEN, the MEFP and IDA. For all other contracts estimated
to cost less than the prior review threshold, Bank staff will conduct a selective post review of about one
third of the contracts. The preliminary versions of the bidding documents for NCB will be reviewed and
approved during the negotiations. Prior IDA review will not apply for Consultant's contracts with an
estimated amount of less than US$100,000 equivalent with firms or for contracts with an estimated amount
of less than US$30,000 equivalent with individuals. However, this exception will not apply to the terms of
reference of such contracts, single-source selection of firms, assignments of a critical as determined by IDA
regardless of their amount, or to amendments of contracts raising the contract value above the threshold for
prior review. For consultancy contracts estimated above US$200,000, the envelopes containing the
financial proposals may not be opened until after receipt of a statement of no objection from the Bank in
regard to its technical evaluation. The Borrower shall retain the documentation pertaining to contracts for
amounts below the prior review threshold for submission to auditors from the Bank's Resident Mission or
IDA supervision missions for post review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement               Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        Above                     ICB                Prior IDA Review
US$200,000
Between                   NCB             Prior review of the first 5
US$30,000 and                                 contracts; Post review of
US$200,000                                   the following contracts;
Aggregate amount under
US$14.3 million
Below
US$30,000                 OTHER             Prior review of the first 5
contracts; Post review of
the following contracts;
Aggregate amount under
US$0.5 million
- 91 -



2. Goods                        Above                     ICB                Prior IDA Review
US$100,000
Between                   NCB             Prior review of the first 5
US$30,000 and                                 contracts; Post review of
US$100,000                                   the following contracts;
Aggregate amount under
US$4.15 million
Prior review of the first 5
Below                                     contracts; Post review of
US$30,000                 OTHER             the following contracts;
Aggregate amount under
US$350,000
3. ServicesTextbooks    (a) preselection of titles at     ICB             Prior review of all bidding
central level                                     documents
(b) Selection of multiple      OTHER             Prior review of selection
titles at decentralized level                     reports of the first batch,
post-review of the
following.
(c) Central purchase of        OTHER           Prior review of all contracts
selected books
4. Grants for School        Below US$2,000       Manual of Procedures for  Prior review of the first 30
Improvement Projects                             the School Improvement  Agreements, post review of
Projects         the 10% of the following
Agreements
- 92 -



5. Grants for Adult        Below US$60,000       Manual of Procedures for  Post review of 100% of the
literacy                                          the Literacy component        Agreements
training Projects          Below US$ 10,000      Manual of procedures for  Prior review of the first 10
Vocational and Technical  Agreements, post review of
Training Projects    the 10% of the following
Agreements
7. Consultant Services    (a) Individuals: above    Section V of the Directives  Prior IDA review
$30,000
Individuals - below  Section V of the Directives     Post review
$30,000
(b) Firms above      Quality and Cost Based      Prior IDA review
US$100,000            Selection (QCBS)
Firms below         Quality and Cost Based        Post review
US$100,000            Selection (QCBS)
(c) Audit           Least Cost Selection      Prior IDA review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    US$8.7 Million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement situation and proposed course of action. Local Senegalese procurement procedures for
National Competitive Bidding are in need of improvement. A provisional version of a procurement code
was drafted in 1997, but requires further work. As a result of earlier IDA-financed projects, the education
sector has built solid experience with World Bank procedures. The DAGEs capacity in the procurement
field was examined as part of the program preparation phase, resulting in the identification of areas where
its capacities in this field require strengthening. In outline, the DAGE is to be strengthened by: (i) transfer
to the DAGE of staff who have gained useful experience in the two PCUs for the PDRH2 and PAES
projects; (ii) recruitment of consultant services specialized in procurement with mandate to build capacity
of the regular DAGEs staff, and (iii) recruitment of additional civil-servants, as needed, according to the
action plan to be submitted and agreed upon during negotiations. The DAGE will also benefit from
ongoing support from the Contract Management Agency (CMA) for the management of construction
contractor contracts and architectural services contracts, together with support provided by the yearly
technical audits.
A preliminary version of the Manual of General Procedures, including a section on procurement acceptable
to IDA, has been prepared on behalf of an ad'hoc committee made up of the MEN, the MEFP and
- 93 -



representatives of the associations of local elected officials, and is to be submitted to IDA during the
negotiations. The necessary revisions will be discussed and agreed during a seminar bringing together the
principal Senegalese authorities at both the central and the decentralized level and the major national and
inter national development partners, and the fmnal version of the Manual of Procedures will be completed
before the effective date of the credit. The Procurement Plan has been drawn up on the basis of the World
Bank's June 1998 document entitled "Procurement Strategy and Planning." It covers the entire three-year
program and will be updated yearly to take account of contracts awarded during the year just completed
and changes to the planning schedule for the year ahead. Like the initial version, the yearly updates to the
PPM will be submitted to IDA for review, and the Association's comments will be incorporated in updates
During the negotiations the Government will provide IDA with the following documents: (i) draft
procurement plan for the three-year program; (ii) the preliminary version of the Manual of General
Procedures for the program, including the section on Procurement and the section on Accounting and
Finance; (iii) a proposal for the selection of a consulting firm to train and monitor DAGE staff in financial
management; (iv) a finalized action plan with detailed implementation schedule for DAGE reinforcement
and (v) sample bidding documents for contracts for works and supplies under local competitive bidding.
The Government will also provide assurances that: (i) it will use the Manual of General Procedures and all
its specific sections, together with the special Manuals of Procedures for the administration of grants (
School Improvement Projects, Literacy Subprojects and Support Fund for Vocational Training); (ii) it will
use the Bank's sample bidding documents for international competitive bidding, and the standard bid
evaluation report; (iii) it will conduct a review of bidding procedures once a year in the course of the annual
review conducted with IDA and the other donors; and (iv) that it will take the necessary measures to ensure
that the various stages in the procurement process do not take longer than the times shown below:
Stages in procurement process         Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents      4 (6 for large contracts)
Preparation of proposals by potential  4 (6-10 for ICB)
bidders
Evaluation of proposals               2 (4 for large contracts)
Signing of contracts                  2
Payments                              4
Reinforcement of procurement capacities. A participative evaluation of DAGE and AGETIP capacities
was carried out during the course of program preparation, following World Bank methodology developed
to that end. The evaluation document is available in the program technical documents (see Annex 8). The
resulting action plan, agreed upon during negotiations, is summarized below. Its implementation is a
condition of effectiveness.
- 94 -



Action Plan for Strengthening Procu rement Capacity
Tasks                                                 Responsibility    Due Date
1. Reorganization of the Procurement Division within the  MEN           March 31, 2000
DAGE
2. Appointment of the Procurement Division chief      MEN               March 31, 2000
3. Completion of the draft Manual of Procedures, including   MEN/DAGE/DPRE April 15, 2000
program procurement procedures and identification of
donor-specific procedures (Government, IDA, ADB, and
others)
4. Joint review of the draft Manual of Procedures with all    MEN/DAGE/DPRE April 15, 2000
stakeholders (MEFP, central and deconcentrated units of MEN,
other concerned ministries, local collectivities, civil society
including the main NGOs working in the sector,
teachers unions, and the representatives of the Parents'
Associations), particularly the section on procurement.
5. Completion of the final version of the Manual of   DAGE/DPRE         April 30, 2000
Procedures after the joint review.
6. Non-objection from IDA regarding the Manual of    IDA                May 10, 2000
Procedures
7. Adoption of the Manual of Procedures by the Government. MEFP         May 15, 2000
8. Recruitment of the contract personnel to be transferred to   DAGE    March 31, 2000
the DAGE: the procurement specialist from the coordination
unit of the PDRH2, the accountant of the PAES, both of whom
are experienced in procurement, and the PAES secretary.
9. Additional recruitment of a procurement specialist through  DAGE     March 31, 2000
REI
10. Recruitment of civil service personnel as per the detailed  DAGE    April 30, 2000
action plan prepared by the DAGE (contract management,
exonerations, control)
11. Installation of all staff in adequate offices with  DAGE            May 15, 2000
appropriate equipment.
12. Confirmation that required capacity is in place  IDA                Effectiveness
13. Training of Procurement Division personnel of the DAGE  DAGEAIDA    As soon as World
in use of World Bank procurement procedures.                            Bank-sponsored
training can be
made available
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 95 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA Credit will be disbursed over three years (from June 2000 through June 30 2003), with
a closing date of December 31, 2003, to finance the first phase of an APL supporting the Ten-Year
Education and Training Plan. The disbursements will be made in accordance with the World Bank's
Disbursement Manual, the Implementation Plan for the Program and the Credit Agreement. The proposal
for allocation of IDA Credit funds is given in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
_ xpeniur Cateoy             Am>"nt 1n USmWi,n             Finaning P erentage
(1) Works                                   11.10                   I100% of amounts
paid by CMA
95% of local expenditures
(2) Goods                                   10.10                    100% of foreign
expenditures and 95%
of local expenditures
(3) Training and Consultants services       11.36                         100%
(4) Grants                                  0.00                          100%
(a) for School Improvement Projects        2.40                          100%
(b) for literacy subprojects                6.75                         95%
(c) for Vocational Training Projects        0.50                         95%
(5) AGETIP commission (literacy)            0.14                          100%
(6) Operating costs
(a) for all costs except maintenance        1.10                          95%
(b) for maintenance expenditures            1.85                          50%
(6) PPF                                     0.65
(7) Non allocated                           4.05
Total Project Costs                         50.00
Total                           T5o.o
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted monthly or when the SAs will be
reduced by one-third, whichever comes first. All replenishment applications will be fully documented
except for: (a) contracts of less than US$200,000 equivalent for works and goods; (b) US$ 100,000
equivalent for consulting firms; US$ 50,000 equivalent for individual consultants; and (c) grants, training
and operating costs, which may be claimed on the basis of SOEs. SOE documentation will be retained at
the program implementation unit for review by World Bank Resident Mission or IDA supervision missions.
Special account:
IDA financing for expenses eligible under the credit will be deposited to 2 distinct Special Accounts:
The MEN Special Account (MEN-SA) will be opened by the MZEN in a commercial bank for all
expenditures except those linked to the literacy component, i.e. Categories 1, 2, 3, 4(a), 4(c), 5(a) and 5(b).
- 96 -



It will be managed by the DDI of the MEFP, and will receive an initial deposit from IDA equivalent to 4
months of eligible expenditures estimated at 2.4 billion FCFA. However, the authorized amount will not
exceed 1.2 billion FCFA until the total amount of withdrawals reaches the equivalent of SDR 10 million.
In parallel: (a) a central advance account (RAC) for the program will be opened in a commercial bank and
managed by the DAGE to cover recurrent expenditures or expenditures of a particularly urgent nature. The
RAC will be financed by the DDI from the MEN-SA and maintained at a ceiling of 150 million FCFA
estimated to cover 3 months of eligible expenditure; (b) in each regional capital, a Regional Advance
Account (RAR) will be opened in a branch office of a commercial bank, and managed by the IA in order to
finance expenditures eligible for RAR. Each RAR will be financed by the DDI from the MEN-SA and
maintained at a ceiling of 7.7 million FCFA estimated to cover 3 months of eligible expenditures. The
DAGE will be responsible to keep parallel accounting of the RAC and the MEN-SA, while the IA will
maintain the accounts of the RAR which it manages. The DAGE will ensure on a monthly basis: (i) the
replenishment of the RAC; (ii) the collection and control of the supporting documentation for expenditures
from the RAR for their replenishment; and (iii) the preparation of replenishment requests for the MEN-SA
which will be controlled and transmitted to IDA by the DDI. The use of advance accounts for MEN budget
funds is already a well established practice for the DAGE and other MEN directorates, as well as for the IA
, the IDEN and for secondary schools. The procedures governing the flow of funds between the MEN-SA,
the RAC and the RARs will be developed in the Manual of Procedures, for which the final version will be
submitted for IDA's approval as a'condition of credit effectiveness.
The AGETIP Special Account (AGETIP-SA). IDA funds for expenditures related to the literacy
sub-project (Category 4(b)) will be managed by AGETIP in the identical manner as it manages the funds of
IDA Credit 2873-SE of the PAPF. For this component, AGETIP will open a Special Account in a
commercial bank. It will be managed by AGETIP and will receive an initial deposit of 700 million FCFA.
However, the authorized amount will not exceed 350 million FCFA until the total amount of withdrawals
reaches the equivalent of SDR 2.5 million. Procedures related to the flow of funds will be described in
detail in the Manual of Procedures, for which the final version will be submitted for IDA's approval as a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Government Funds. For program execution, the Government has agreed to put a minimum amount of 120
million FCFA per year from the BCI into the MEN budget to cover the share of investment and operating
expenditures not financed by IDA or other donors. The Government has also agreed to deposit in a Project
Account opened in the Public Treasury an annual amount of 25 millions FCFA representing the amount
necessary to cover recurrent expenditures, at the latest by February 28 each year. At the time of
negotiations, the Government agreed to make an initial deposit of 25 million FCFA in the Project Account,
which is a condition of IDA credit effectiveness. This Project Account will be an advance account
managed by the DAGE. For other Government counterpart expenditures (95 million FCFA) the DAGE will
the ordonnateur des depenses; these expenditures will be paid from the BCI according to the usual
payment procedures. See Annex I  for additional development of the financial management of the
program, including financial system evaluation, accounting, preparation of financial reporting, audits,
financial staff, LACI requirements, and the action plan for financial capacity-building within the DAGE.
- 97 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
SProject   Sched ule:::tt   X_X_____________________f 0                         L S '
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      16                           24
First Bank mission (identification)             04/01/98                     04/01/98
Appraisal mission departure                     09/15/99                     10/19/99
Negotiations                                    02/14/2000                   02/18/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/15/2000                   04/15/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of National Education
Preparation assistance:
Government financing of preparation teams including NGO, private sector and development staff.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Robert S. Prouty                  Pr. Education Specialist
Linda English                     Human Resources Economist
Susan Opper                       Education Specialist
Bettina Moll                      Education Specialist
Serge Theunynck                   Sr. Implementation Specialist
Habibata Thienta                  Education Specialist
Alassane Diawara                  Sr. Operations Officer
Ahmadou Moustapha N'Diaye         Financial Analyst
Sakhevar Diop                     Textbook Specialist
Donald Bundy                      School Health Specialist
Luis Benveniste                   Education Specialist
Aminata Maiga                     Education Specialist
Tshiya Subayi                     Operation Analyst
Myrina Mccullough                 Program Assistant
Elsie Lauretta Maka               Team Assistant
- 98 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
A. Project Implementation Plan
Ministere de I'Education Nationale, Programme D&ennal de V 'Education et de la Formation (PDEF),
Manuel de Procedures Generales (version provisoire), f6vrier 2000.
Ministere de ]'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Administration Generale et de l'Equipement (DAGE),
Programme D&cennal de l 'Education et de la Formation (PDEF), Manuel de Procedures
Administratives, Financieres et Comptables, Janvier 2000.
Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Direction de la Planification et de la Reforme de l.'Education),
Programme D&cennal de 1 'Education et de la Formation (PDEF), Tableaux detailles des coits <<
COSTAB )) (sixieme Draft-PDEF 43), 27 janvier 2000.
Minist&re de I'Education Nationale, Direction de I'Administration Generale et de l'Equipement (DAGE),
Programme D&cennal de V 'Education et de la Formation (PDEF), Premiere Phase - Programme
Education de Qualite Pour Tous (EQPT) Plan de Passation des Marches - Periode 1999-2003,
Ministere de ]'Education Nationale, Direction de la Planification et de la Reforme de I'Education,
Programme Decennal de l 'Education et de la Formation (PDEF), Referentiel pour la Reforme -
Catalogue des mesures, Janvier 2000.
Ministere de I'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire et de l'Enseignement Elementaire
(DEPEE). Termes de Reference de la sous-composante Enseignement de la Lecture, 1 er Draft (Seynabou
Gueye). (1999)
Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire et de l'Enseignement Elementaire
(DEPEE). (1999). Termes de Reference de la Sous-composante Experimentation de l'enseignement en
langues nationales a l'ecole elementaire, 2eme Draft.
Ministere de I'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire et de l'Enseignement Elementaire
(DEPEE). (1999). Termes de Reference de la Sous-Composante Education Speciale.
Ministere de I'Education Nationale, INEADE. Elements pour la mise en place d'un systeme permanent
d'evaluation et de suivi des apprentissages. (1999).
Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire et de l'Enseignement Elementaire
(DEPEE). Termes de Ref&ences de la Sous-composante Qualite et Gestion des Multigrades, ler Draft.
(1999).
Minist&re de I'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire et de l'Enseignement Elementaire
(DEPEE). Termes de References de la Sous-composante Conception d'initiatives speciales pour la
riduction des redoublements et abandons scolaires, 1 er Draft.(1999).
Ministere de I'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire et de l'Enseignement Elementaire
(DEPEE). Termes de References de la Sous-composante Formation des enseignants, 2eme Draft.(1999).
- 99 -



Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire et de rEnseignement Elementaire
(DEPEE). Rapport du sPminaire sur laformation des enseignants.(1 999).
Ministere de l'Education Nationale, DEPEE, DPRE, DEMSG. Rapport General de lAtelier national sur
les projets d'6cole et les projets d'etablissement. (1999).
Ministere de l'Education Nationale. Projet de Lettre de Politique Generale pour le Secteur
Education/Formation.(1999).
Ministere de l'Education Nationale. Programme Decennal de  'Education et de la Formation (PDEF),
2eme Draft.(1999).
O'Loughlin, Patrick . The Quality Education For All Project in Support of the Ten Year Education and
Training Program, Senegal: Recommendations for the NDF Financed Special Needs Education
Component, Nordic Development Fund.(1999).
Newton, Diana. Rapport Preliminaire: Approvisionnement Durable en Materiel Didactique au Senegal:
Projet Education de Qualite pour Tous, Nordic Development Fund and Newton Smith International Ltd.
(1999)
Ministere de l'Education Nationale. Cabinet du Ministre delegue charge de l'Education de Base et des
Langues Nationales. Juin 1999. Revue a mi-parcours du PAPF: Rapport Bilan 1995-1999.
Minist&re de l'Education Nationale. Cabinet du Ministre delegue charge de l'Education de Base et des
Langues Nationales. Juin 1999. Revue a mi-parcours du PAPF. Audit Strategique pour le Developpement
d'un Programme de 40.000 Auditeurs Periode 1999-2001.
Ministere de lEducation Nationale. Cabinet du Ministre de1lgue charg6 de l'Education de Base et des
Langues Nationales. Juin 1999. Revue a mi-parcours du PAPF: Etude sur les Experiences Pilotes de
Post-Alphabetisation des Opierateurs du PAPF.
Minist&re de l'Education Nationale. Cabinet du Ministre delegue charge de l'Education de Base et des
Langues Nationales. Juin 1999. Revue a mi-parcours du PAPF: Rapport sur les Journaux Regionaux
Ecrits en Langues Nationales.
Ministere de l'Education Nationale. Cabinet du Ministre del6gue charge de l'Education de Base et des
Langues Nationales. Septembre 1999. Revue a mi-parcours du PAPF. Rapport General sur la
decentralisation des programmes d'alphabetisation.
Ministere de l'Education Nationale. Cabinet du Ministre delegu6 charge de l'Education de Base et des
Langues Nationales. Janvier 2000. Le Sous-Secteur de l'Education Non-Formelle dans le PDEF.
Ministere de l'Education Nationale. Cabinet du Ministre de1lgue charge de l'Education de Base et des
Langues Nationales. Direction de I'Alphabetisation et de l'Education de Base. Juin 1999. Revue a
mi-parcours du PAPF. Couits Estimatifs des Programmes du non-formal 1999/2000 a 2009/2010.
Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Ministere de la Famille de l'Action Sociale et de la Solidarite Nationale,
Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Interet Public. Septembre 1999. Etude sur le Developpement de la
- 100-



Petite Enfance.
Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Ministere de la Famille de l'Action Sociale et de la Solidarite Nationale,
Agence d'Execution des Travaux d'Inter8t Public. Novembre 1999. Etude de la FaisabilitW de Centres
communautaires DPE.
Ministere de l'Education Nationale, Direction de l'Education Prescolaire et de l'Enseignement Elementaire
(DEPEE) fevrier 2000. Description du Secteur Developpement de la Petite Enfance: Resultats de l'atelier
sur le cadre logique du programme DPE du Senegal et le dispositif de gestion de la composante DPE du
PDEF.
Ministere de l'Education Nationale/DPRE: Annuaire Statistique 1998/99.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Banque Mondiale (1999). Education de Qualite Pour Tous : Aide-memoire de la mission du 3 au 15
octobre 1999.
IDA, Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement - Setting of Prior Review
Thresholds - Procurement Supervision Plan
World Bank. (1997). Memorandum of the President of The International Development Association to the
Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy of The World Bank Group for The Republic of
Senegal.
World Bank Discussion Paper. (1993). Social Infrastructure Construction in the Sahel, No. 200.
C. Other
Senegal, Ministry of Education, Public Expenditure Reviewfor the education sector 1992 -1997,
September 1998
CREA, Financing of Education in Senegal, mimeo paper given at ADAE Conference in Abidjan 1999
A. Daffe, CREA, Benefit Incidence Analysis of Education Expenditures in Senegal and the Demandfor
Education; 1992 and 1994" August 1994
A. Aziz, CREA, Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Middle and Secondary Schools in Senegal CREA, 2000
CREA, Simulation Model of the Senegalese Education Sector, 1999
Senegal, Ministry of Education and CREA, Cost Estimates andfinancing of QEFA November 1999
Study on the establishment of the Agence d 'Ex&cution des Travaux d 'Infrastructures et d 'Equipement
Scolaires, Agency for the Performance of Infrastructure and School Equipment Work (AGIES),
Provisional Report No 1, BERGES (Bureau d'Etudes et de Realisation en Gestion), MEN/DCES, October
1999.
*Including electronic files
- 101 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Difference between expecte(
and actual
Onginal Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                               IBRD        IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P051610        1998 Senegal                      AGEXPORT PROMOTION                        0.00       7.96         0.00       6.72       2.29      -0.28
P002367        1999 Senegal                     AGR.SRCVES&PROD.ORGS                       0.00      27.16         0.00      27.16       8.68      0.00
P035615        1995 Senegal                      COMM NUTRITION                            0.00      15.73         0.00       2.10       4.26      4.29
P041567        1997 Senegal                      ENDEMIC DISEASES                          0.00      14.52         0.00      13.05       7.44      0.64
P051357        1998 Senegal                      ENERGY SEC. ADJ.                          0.00      99.51         0.00      74.63      73.95      0.00
P002373        1996 Senegal                      HIGHER EDUC I                             0.00      24.83         0.00       12.96     -1.25      0.00
P002369        1998 Senegal                     INTEGR.HEALTH S.DEV.                       0.00      48.27         0.00       38.71     16.66      0.00
P057996        2000 Senegal                      NAT.INFRA.PROGRAM                         0.00      27.57         0.00      27.57       0.00      0.00
P035621        1996 Senegal                      PILOT FEMALE LITERAC                      0.00       11.74        0.00        5.26     -1.60      0.00
P002376        1995 Senegal                      PRIV.SCTR.CAP.BLDG                        0.00       10.76        0.00       4.54       4.63      2.59
P046648        1997 Senegal                      REGIONAL POWER                            0.00       10.36        0.00       5.98       5.30      0.00
P046768        1997 Senegal                      SUST.PART.ENGY.MGMT.                      0.00       5.11         0.00       4.16       2.38      0.00
P002366        1999 Senegal                      TRANSPORT II                              0.00      86.23         0.00      84.66      -0.07      0.00
P002365        1998 Senegal                      URB DEVT & DECEN PRO                      0.00      74.23         0.00       62.68     22.90      0.00
P044383        1997 Senegal                      URBAN TRANS REF TA                        0.00       6.59         0.00        3.20      2.52      0.00
P002346        1995 Senegal                      WATER SECTOR                              0.00      85.57         0.00      56.90      64.29     58.83
P067496        2000 Senegal                      Y2KNATIONALACTIONPLAN                     0.00       10.09        000        10.09      0.00      0.00
SUPPORT PROJECT
Total:       0.00      566.23        0.00      440.37    212.38      66.07
-102 -



SENEGAL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1995               AEF Acajoux Htl                0.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
0                 AEF Bulwer                     0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00
1996               AEF Carosa Farm                0.00    0.09    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.09      0.32    0.00
1999               AEF Dargle Timbr               0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.37    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997/98            AEF E.R. Medical               0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Erand Hotel                0.00    0.40    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.40      0.80    0.00
1999               AEF FOXTROT MEAT               0.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.41    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Green Charc                0.00    0.09    0.89    0.00    0.00    0.09      0.89    0.00
1999               AEF IHS Techno                 0.63    0.00    0.65    0.00    0.63    0.00      0.65    0.00
1997               AEF Innoventions               0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Lesedi Hosp                0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19    0.00
1998               AEFNSAPIC                      0.00    0.00    0.73     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.16    0.00
1998               AEF Roodepoort                 0.00    0.00    0.41     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.41    0.00
1996/97/98         AEF SERT                       0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Sea Harvest                0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Sordale                    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Wip Motors                 0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33      0.00    0.00
1995/96/99         AFLIFE                         0.00    5.94    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.94      0.00    0.00
1980               BHS                            0.00    0.46    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.46      0.00    0.00
1995               Beau Vallon                    2.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.58    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996/98            Cashbank                      10.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.05    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Energy Afr Ltd                 0.00   38.02    0.00    0.00    0.00   38.02      0.00    0.00
1997               GTI Dakar                     12.97    1.64    0.00    10.77    4.76    0.87     0.00    5.75
1981/88            ICS                            0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Nouvobanq                     10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.25    0.00      0.00    0.00
1992               PTD Limited                    0.95    0.00    0.00    0.62    0.95    0.00      0.00    0.62
1995               SACGF                          0.00    4.09     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.10     0.00    0.00
1995               SAFCF                          0.00    2.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.06      0.00    0.00
1995               SAFFM                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               SAPEF                          0.00   35.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.97      0.00    0.00
1998               SEF SENTA                      0.30    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.30    0.00     0.00    0.00
SOGECA                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/96            Sierra Rutile                  1.86    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.86    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992
Total Portfolio:        43.09   88.30    4.18    11.39   28.73   56.51     3.61    6.37
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999              CDS                            13500.00   2350.00   2350.00     0.00
1998              GTiDakarlncr.                  3113.26      0.00    219.96      0.00
1998              Tolsa-Thies                    3000.00      0.00    900.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     19613.26   2350.00   3469.96      0.00
-103 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Senegal at a glance                                                            03/20100
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan      Low-
Senegal    Africa   incorne      Development diamond-
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                    #REF!        628     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 #REF!        480       520
GNP (Atas method, USS bilrions)                        ,.       304     1.844
Average annual growth. 1993-99
Population (1%D)                                      2.7       2.6        1.7 
Labor force (%)                                         ..      2.6        1.9     GNP              j              Gross
perprmy
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-9)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national povery line)    .
Urban populaton (% of total population)                45        33        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       52        51        63
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 lIe births)               ..        91        69
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             22                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 51        47        74
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   67        42        32
Gross prmary enrollment (%'of school-age population)   66        7        108                  Senegal
Male                                                71         84       113                  Low-inrome group
Female                                               57        69       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                           2.8      4.6       4.7        5.0
Gross domestc investmentfGDP                                                                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP
Gross domestic savings/GDP
Gross national savings/GDP                     .        ..
Current account balance/GDP                                                      ,   m
Interest payments/GDP                             Dms (is                                                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                              40.8    70.7        71.0      65.5     Savmgs                      I
Total debt servicelexports                   15.2    26.6        9.7       9.0
Present value of debttGDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99    1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GOP                                 2.9      3.0      5.7        5.1       4.8                  Senegal
GNP per capita                     -0.1      0.6      3.9        2.4       2.1                  Lowincome group
Exports of goods and services       3.0      2.4      5.2       6.0       6 1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                          __=
1979     1989      1998      1999     GrowthofInvestmentandGDP(%)
(% of GOP)
Agriculture                                                                        l o.
Industry..                                              ....
Manufacturing
Services                                                                                         - 5   " S 9 Se   91 
Private consumption                                                          .    -1 -0
General govemment consumption                 _.  .GDI    --*--GDP
Imports of goods and services
197949  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agrculture                                    1.8     1.6       -1.7       6.1    15T
Industry                                     4.2      4.3        8.8       7.7    10 l
Manufacturing                               4.6      2.6       7.6       4.8      5
Services                                     3.0      3.1        7.1       3.9
Private consumption                          2.2      3.0        2.8       3.7    1             94 S /9
General govemment consumption                 3.4    -1.7        3.2       4.7    to
Gross domestic investrnent                   4.1      3.5        7.8       9.4  
Imports of goods and services                1.7      0.7        8.0       6.6                 Exports     e  Irporls
Gross national product                       2.8      3.4        6.7       5.1 
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 104 -



Senegal
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999     Inflation (-)
DomestUc prices
(% change)                                                                       4
Consumer pnces                              91       0.4        1.1      2.0     3-
Implicit GDP deflator                       917      0.9       2.2       1.9    20-
Government flnance
(% of GDP, includes cu,rent grants)                                            .
Current revenue                            18.4    17.8       17.3      17.1    -.0-    94   95   96   97   sa   99
Current budget balance                       ..    -0.1        5.8       5.0                  GDP defator    e  C
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..    -2.9       -2.6      -4 0 
TRADE
(USS millions)                                      1989      1998     1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                         478      759       965    1 017    1600
Groundnut                                          ISO        54        56    1 400 -
Fish                                                70        25        31
Manufactures                                ..    167        265       281
Total imports (cif)                           ..   1134      1376    1 493
Food                                        ..    334        311       325     400 -
Fuel and energy                                    15S       179       193      200   *
Capital goods                                      173       211       245       o                 _
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Exportpnceindex(1995=100)                    ..    104         104      113
Import price index (1995=100)                ..       83        94       99                  * Exports     q imports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                               127       111      114    _
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsof goods and services                816    1255      1538    1621        0
Imports of goods and services             1 104    1 514     1 844    1 965      2
Resource balance                           -288    -260       -307     -344
4--
Net income                                  -79    -205        -36      -39
Net current transfers                       -48       16        53       31       I-
Current account balance                    -415    -448       -289     -352      . 
Financing items (net)                       265     543        312      426    -0
Changes in net reserves                     150      -95       -23      -74    -12 -
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (US$ millins)         34      31        426      486
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWiF.SS)         212.7   319.0      590.0    591.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1 122    3 269     3 324    3 275
IBRD                                       41       94         9        5                    F. 6A520
IDA                                        88      592     1448      1588
Total debt service                          135      359       163      158          E. 845
IBRD                                        6       18         8        5
IDA                                         1        6        18       15
Composibon of net resource flows                                                                               B. 1 5B8
Official grants                         #REF    #REF       #REF    #REF
Official creditors                        359      573       409      348
Private creditors                          47      -51       -27      -28   .      0 555
Foreign directinvestment                    6      -15         7      169
Portfolio equity                            0     -205       -36      -39
c. 199
World Bank program
Commitments                                32       22       233        0     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              27      49        108      145      B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Principalrepayments                         3       11        16       19      C-IMF                      G-Short-term
Net flows                                  25       38        93      126
Interest payments                           4       13        10        1
Net transfers                              21      25         82      125
Development Economics                                                                                           00-03-20
- 105 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Financial Management Arrangements
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All
The Quality Education For All Project will establish a financial management system, acceptable to IDA, which
will provide accurate and timely information regarding resources and expenditures. The financial management
system will include accounting, financial reporting and auditing elements as required by Bank's policies (OP
10.02).
Financial Management Assessment. The institutional framework revolves around the MEN, which will hold
primary responsibility for program implementation and general coordination of partners. Responsibility for
implementing each of the components of the QEFA program falls to the relevant MEN directorate. Each
directorate is accountable for component results. At the same time, given the sector approach adopted by MEN,
lateral directorates such as DAGE, DPRE and DCES will play a new and critical role. Lastly, as a result of
decentralization, the MAs and the IDENs as well as local governments, will play a central role in implementing
the program. For the adult education component that will follow on the heels of the PAPF program, AGETIP
will be used as the implementing agency.
The financial management of the program would be centered around DAGE at the central level, the lAs at the
regional level and AGETIP for the adult literacy sub component. DAGE would have overall responsibility
including:(a) education sector budget planning; (b) coordination with DEPRE of the preparation of budgets
associated with the annual operating plans regardless sources of financing, nature of expenditure and body in
charge with implementing the expenditures; (c) make initial deposits from Public Treasury resources and
advance accounts at the central and decentralized levels; (d) implement the Government's investment budget
and recurrent budget (except for funds allocated through advance accounts) at the decentralized levels and
expenditures from external investment credits; (e) oversee expenditures made on the authority of MEN (advance
accounts) and monitor expenditures made by autonomous entities such as universities, local governments and
development partners; (f) reimburse advance accounts from the IDA special accounts held by DDI and other
special accounts; (g) oversee AGETIP management of the second special account for literacy education
subprojects, (h) maintain and consolidate all QEFA program accounts in accordance with international
accounting standards; including the IDA special account for all components, as well as the special accounts of
other donors; (i) ensure that all partners adhere to the Manual of Accounting and Financial Procedures; ()
ensure that audits of acceptable detail and scope are performed in a timely fashion and submitted on the
specified dates to MEN, MEFP, IDA and other development partners; and (k) prepare quarterly Program
Management Reports (PMRs (i) Project Sources and Uses of Funds; (ii)Uses of Funds by Project Activities;
(iii) Special Account Statement; (iv) Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods & Works); (v) Procurement
Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services); (vi) Contract Expenditure Report (Goods & Works); and (vii)
Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services)). AGETIP that will manage the second special account for
literacy education subprojects, would have to keep separate accounts for this sub component. Due to the
decentralized approach of the program, the 10 MAs located at the regional level are also expected to play a key
role in the program's financial management.
Given these settings, an assessment of DAGE and lAs financial management capacities was done during project
preparation and a report including a detailed strengthening action plan was prepared. AGETIP has been
implementing World bank financed projects in Senegal for many years now either directly as executing agency
or as contract management agency (Community Nutrition, Female Literacy, Urban Development and
Decentralization, Integrated Health Sector, etc.). It has acquired experience in the management of World Bank
financed projects including financial management. But all the projects mentioned were declared effective prior
- 106 -



to July I st, 1998 when the LACI was put into effect. Therefore, there is no assurance that AGETIP financial
management system still meets World Bank minimum requirements and is suitable for the literacy sub
component of QEFA. A formal assessment of AGETIP 's financial management capacity has not been done yet
for this project. It has to be planned and its conclusions will specify whether the current system is satisfactory
or not; they will also help define strengthening actions to be put in place before credit effectiveness as needed.
The assessment of DAGE and Ms financial management capacities concluded that the Ministry of Education
through DAGE, lAs and other units has acquired valuable experience in budget preparation and monitoring
using a decentralized approach. However DAGE and the Lls current organizational structure as well as
financial management system and staffing are not suitable to allow them to fulfill satisfactorily their expected
functions under the QEFA project and to satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. The
current system is not capable to address specific needs for the financial management of the QEFA program in
terms of keeping track and accurately reporting on the program's expenditures regardless source of funding
under the context of a decentralized approach. The following weaknesses were among those identified: i) lack
of a sector-wide consolidated budget implementation monitoring system, ii) budget monitoring is done mainly to
prevent overrun and not as a management tool, iii) embryonic computerized financial management system at
DAGE level, iv) no guarantee on the accuracy of budget data, v) manual budget monitoring system at the MAs
level, vi) absence of detailed written administrative and accounting procedures, vii) weak human resources.
These conclusion were expected. That is the reason why it is also expected that this situation will evolve under
the QEFA project with the financing of activities to strengthen capacities. However, there are two sets of
strengthen measures to be implemented. The first set of measures as detailed in the action plan annexed will aim
at putting in place a financial management system satisfactory to the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements prior to credit effectiveness, including a computerized financial management system, a detailed
manual of administrative and accounting procedures covering internal control procedures, description of the
program accounting system (chart of accounts, analytical coding for the cost accounting, format of the financial
statements and periodic reporting following LACI models), operational procedures at the central and regional
levels including coordination and reporting mechanisms between the two levels (budgeting, procurement,
disbursement) regardless the source of funding. The second set of measures will address the longer term and
will have to be define more precisely through a more thorough analysis and implemented as part of the project
activities.The conclusion of the assessment and the financial management capacities strengthening action plan
are taken into account to define the financial management arrangements presented below.
Financial Management System, reporting, auditing and staffing arrangements.
(i) Accounting. QEFA accounts will be kept in accordance with international accounting standards. A sound
financial management system will be installed to record and report on all project expenditures disbursed under
the project as a result of the capacities strengthening action plan to be implemented within DAGE and in all
lAs. Procedures will be developed in the Manual of procedures to define mechanisms for the flow of financial
information between the Lls and the lower levels (IDEN, schools, etc.) and between DAGE on one hand and the
Lls and other MEN's line agencies and autonomous institutions such as public universities on the other. All Ms
accounts will be consolidated in the QEFA overall financial management system which will be under the
responsibility of DAGE. The IAs will: (i) coordinate budget preparation at the regional level; (ii) monitor
budget implementation at the regional level; (iii) keep the QEFA accounts for all expenditures disbursed at the
regional level; (iv) report to DAGE all financial infonnation necessary to consolidate QEFA financial
statements and to establish the quarterly PMR; (v) assist the auditors in the annual financial audits of the
project. Disbursements for local expenditures will be channeled through imprest accounts opened at commercial
banks acceptable to IDA at the regional level. The use of imprest accounts is already widespread within DAGE
- 107 -



and other MEN's decentralized services, including IA, IDEN and schools.
As responsible of the overall financial management and reporting, DAGE will: (i) coordinate in relation with
DPRE the preparation of the Annual Operation Plans and Budgets for all project components regardless the
origin of funds, including Government resources for recurrent expenditures managed by the MEN's line
agencies and resources delegated to autonomous institutions such as Universities, Local Governments, etc.; (ii)
manage all investment resources including IDA and other donors' special accounts, and the project account for
annual deposit of the Government' share of project expenditures for investment; (iii) monitor all expenditures
incurred for education, regardless origin of funds - including in particular Local Government proper resources,
direct cooperation to decentralized levels -, and disbursement agency; (iv) maintain and consolidate all project
accounts including IDA's Special Account for all components except Literacy sub-projects, and other donors'
special accounts; (v) ensure that all reports and audits are provided to the MEN's Cabinets, Ministry of Finance
and Planning, IDA and other donors as required (vi) monitors AGETIP's management of the second IDA
Special Account for Literacy sub-projects; and (vi) produce the quaterly Project Management Reports (PMR).
During program preparation, the Ministry of Finances (DDI) agreed to develop its partnership with DAGE in
view to insure success to: (a) autonomous management of the special account by DA GE and (b) shift of DDTs
management from prior control to post control of MoE's expenditures, with IDA financial support to build
consistent capacity in DAGE and DDI.
DAGE will receive technical support from a qualified accounting firm to: (i) propose adequate changes in the
organization of DAGE (ii) provide appropriate computer software for financial and accounting management,
including production of reports on a quarterly basis; (iii) develop an accounting manual including the project
accounting system; and (iv) train DAGE staff.. Terms of reference, which are under preparation, have to be
approved by IDA during negotiation. They specify that the accounting software should be compatible with
IDA's requirements, in particular, be LACI-compatible, the manual should reflect those procedures and that
staff will be trained to implement LACI as per the time-bound action plan, with full implementation before end
of first phase QEFA. The selected proposal will be reviewed by the Bank for approval. Adoption of an
accounting manual and installation of a computerized financial management system satisfactory to IDA are
conditions of credit effectiveness.
(ii) Financial Reporting. Consolidated financial statements for the entire program will be prepared by DAGE.
They will comprise under this project: i) a statement of Source and Application of Funds for the project during
the current financial year, and cumulatively since the start of the project, and ii) Uses of Funds by Project
Activities in lieu of a balance sheet. These two financial statements will be prepared annually. In addition,
agreement will be reached during negotiations to submit quarterly reports as required under LACI namely, (i)
Project Sources and Uses of Funds, (ii) Special Account Statement, (iii) Procurement Process Monitoring
(Goods & Works), (iv) Procurement Process Monitoring (Consultants' Services), (v) Contract Expenditure
Report (Goods & Works), (vi) Contract Expenditure Report (Consultants' Services), one month after the end of
each quarter. The objective is to familiarize DAGE with the preparation of periodic reliable and relevant reports
using the LACI models during an interim period so that it can be envisaged to move to full LACI
implementation after this period. The strengthening measures proposed in the action plan should help reach this
objective. However, given the challenge of the decentralized approach, the involvement of units and staff with
no direct experience so far in World Bank financed projects, and the extent of the weaknesses identified, the use
of PMR-based disbursement method will be envisaged only after the end of the interim period ending 18 months
after date of credit effectiveness. In order to prepare DAGE for further use of the LACI, DAGE will set up a
reporting system able to generate quarterly financial and management reports and permit the monitoring and
reporting of procurement and contract implementation in line with the principles and specifications detailed in
the World Bank document entitled "The Loan Administration Change Initiative - Implementation Handbook"
(September 1998).
- 108 -



(iii) Auditing. The financial statements of the project will be audited for each fiscal year by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA in accordance with standards on auditing also acceptable to IDA. Audit reports of
reasonable scope and detail would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the audited period. The
auditor will provide separate opinions on: i) the project financial statements (statement of Source and
Application of Funds and Uses of Funds by Project Activities in lieu of a Balance sheet), ii) the statement of
expenditures (SOE), iii) the special accounts (SA). The auditor will also issue a separate management report on
Internal Controls and operational procedures outlining any recommendations for improving internal accounting
controls and operational procedures identified as a result of the financial statement audit. Terms of reference
for the selection of the auditors will be prepared and approved by IDA. Selection of an audit firm acceptable to
IDA for the QEFA project is a condition of credit effectiveness.
(iv) Staffing. DAGE will be reinforced by (a) the transfer of existing human resources acting within the existing
PCUs which will not be maintained after PDRH2 and PAES and from other line agencies such as DCES which
role shifts from execution of construction to management, and (b) specific recruitment and appointment of
necessary skills to conduct its activities according to the capacity building plan issued form the institutional
capacity assessment. The head of the finance and accounting division will be appointed and will be a qualified
accountant. He/she will have full authority to act as the accountant on behalf of the MEFP, streamlining
commitments, payments and the preparation of IDA disbursement requests. Capacity of the rest of DAGE and
Mls staff involved in financial management will be reinforced through training.
PMR (Project Management Reports) based disbursement. According to the arrangements presented above,
all the tools necessary to prepare quarterly PMRs will be in place by the date of credit effectiveness. These
tools consists of the computerized financial management system and the manual of administrative and
accounting procedures. The computerized financial management system will be customized to the specific needs
of the program to allow an automatic generation of the quarterly PMRs in compliance with the LACI
Implementation Handbook and Financial Management Manual (draft version). However given the level of
weaknesses identified and the challenge of the decentralized approach and despite all measures proposed to
develop appropriate financial management capacity, it is recommended to begin with traditional disbursement
arrangements through a Special Account and SOEs (statements of expenditures). It is expected that after 18
months of project implementation, DAGE and Ms financial management capacities would be strengthened
enough to prepare accurate PMRs that could be used as a basis of disbursement as required under LACI.
Hence, a new assessment of the financial management system will be carried out jointly by the Bank, DAGE,
and DDI (Ministry of Finance) first after nine (9) months of implementation, and then a second one after
eighteen (18) months starting from date of effectiveness to ensure whether the Project meet the requirements to
effect a full transition to LACI. Alternatively, further strengthening measures will be proposed and
implemented over a period not exceeding six (6) months, to effect a smooth to LACI. It is understood that fully
adoption of LACI will be compulsory after a maximum of twenty-four (24) of operation.
Action plan for reinforcing the financial capacity of the DA GE. The action plan prepared in collaboration
with the DAGE, agreed upon during negotiations, is sunmmarized below. Its implementation is a condition of
effectiveness.
- 109 -



Detailed action plan: financial management capacities strengthening
Including Loan Administrative Change Initiative - LACI requirements
Tasks                                               Responsibility       Due date
1. DAGE organizational structure and Manual of
administrative and accounting procedures.
* Draft terms of reference for the selection of the  DAGE with IDA     February 29, 2000
consultant in charge of writing the manual of  support
administrative and accounting procedures and proposing
and installing a financial management software fulfilling
LACI requirements (accounting, procurement and
contract monitoring, physical progress monitoring;
terms of reference must specify that the consultant will
i) propose an efficient reorganization of DAGE and
write the detailed procedures accordingly, ii) propose
the design of the program's overall accounting system at
central and regional levels including detailed chart of
accounts and coordination and reporting mechanisms,
iii) develop internal control procedures as part of the
operational procedures                         Borrower with IDA    March 31, 2000
* Selection of a consultant according to the terms of  approval
reference referred to above                    Consultant           April 30, 2000
* Draft manual of administrative and accounting
procedures including: i) a new detailed organizational
chart of DAGE and its respective divisions along with
detailed job descriptions, ii) description of the program'
s accounting system (chart of accounts, recording
schemes, financial statements format, etc), iii) detailed
operational procedures at central and regional levels
including budgeting and coordination and reporting  DAGE/IDA
mechanisms                                                          May l5, 2000
* Review and comment on the draft manual of       Consultant
administrative and accounting procedures                            By effectiveness
* Final version of the manual of administrative and
accounting procedures
2. Computerized financial management system
* Proposal of a financial management software fulfilling  Consultant with DAGE March 31, 2000
LACI requirements (accounting, procurement and  and IDA approval
contract monitoring, physical progress monitoring.
* Installation of the financial management software and   Consultant with DAGE May 15, 2000
initial training of the accounting staff within DAGE and participation
at the lAs level
* Certification that the financial management in place is  IDA FMS     By effectiveness
satisfactory to IDA
-110 -



3. Audits
* Draft terms of reference for the selection of the auditors DAGE/IDA   February 29, 2000
*  Shortlist of minimum three and maximum six audit  DAGE               February 29, 2000
firms and draft request for proposal
* IDA no objection to the shortlist and draft RFP  IDA/FMS & TTL        March 10, 2000
* Transmission of the RFP to shortlisted audit firms  DAGE              March 15, 2000
* Reception and Evaluation of the proposal and selection  DAGE         April 14, 2000
of the project auditors
* IDA no objection                                 IDA                  April 24, 2000
* Negotiation and signature of contract            DAGE                 April 30, 2000
4. Implementation of PMR-based disbursement method
* Prepare the Financial Report using the Cash Model  DAGE               One month after the
PMR at the end of each quarter.                                      end of each quarter,
the first report
expected as of six
months after
effectiveness
* Reassessment of DAGE and QEFA financial          IDA FMS in relation
management system and reporting system to propose the with DAGE and DDI  18 months after
use of PMR-based disbursement method or define                       effectiveness
further strengthening actions for compatibility with
LACI



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Primary School Construction Arrangements
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All
Current Situation.
Schools. The number of elementary schools rose from 2,458 in 1990/91 (191 of which were private) to
4,261 in 1998/99 (395 of which were private). However, the objectives spelled out to cover the rural areas
were not accompanied by an appropriate strategy. This resulted in a large number of incomplete schools
(69% in 1996/97), and even single class schools (28% in 1996/97) which, in most instances, offered one
level of instruction, with students being enrolled, in such cases, every six years, a situation that parents find
discouraging, particularly with respect to the education of their daughters. The severity of this problem
varies widely from one region to another: at one end of the spectrum is Dakar, where 92% of the schools
are complete, and at the other, Tambacounda, where only 11% are complete.
Table i: Distribution of schools (percentages) by number of classes and by region, 1997
Dakar Diourbel Fatick  Kaolack  Kolda  Louga St-Louis Tamba  Thies  Zicuin  Total
Total number of schools  100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%
Schoolswith6ormoreclasses  92%    23%    25%    23%    17%    17%    31%    11%    35%    39%    31%
Schools with 5 classes or less   8%    77%    75%    77%    83%    83%    69%    89%    65%    61%    69%
Schools with 3 classes or less  4%    67%    59%    67%    76%    78%    55%    82%    50%    50%    59%
Schools with 2 classes or less   3%    52%    38%    53%    55%    67%    42%    72%    32%    26%    44%
Schools with only 1 class  2%    35%    21%    33%    31%    44%    26%    50%    21%    15%    28%
Source: MEN/DPRE Statstical Yearbook 1996/1997
Classrooms. At the elementary level, the number of classrooms rose from 11,200 in 1989-90 to 19,404 in
1998-1999, that is, by a total of 8,200 classrooms in 9 years, or an average annual increase in the total
inventory of more than 900 classrooms per year. More than 2/3 of this construction (67%) was funded by
the government, with 18% (1,000 classrooms) being funded from the State budget, and more than 4,400
from official development assistance. The remaining classrooms, that is, a little over 300, were built by the
parents of students, either using their own funds or with the assistance of NGOs such as Aide et Action and
the Paul Gerin-Lajoie Foundation.
Table 2: Construction of classrooms by the State, 1978-1998, financed by the State and partners
Years              Funding               N. of classes           Cost (CFAF)      Unit cost
1978            Education IlIl - BM           86                248,013,296        2,883,876
1986-1989               OPEC I                  141                421,323,792        2,988,112
1988-1990          Education IV - BM            400               1,400,000,000       3,500,000
1992-1993               Japan I                 186               3,143,400,000      16,900,000
1992-1994               OPEC II                 200                760,000,000        3,800,000
BM                  1,076              4,842,000,000        4,500,000
KFW                   820               3,699,000,000        4,510,976
1994-1998               Japan II                512               8,652,800,000      16,900,000
(PDRH2)                OPeI                    410              2,068,544,710        5,045,231
O lIIl           210               1,213,389,450       5,778,045
CIDA                   140                378,000,000        2,700,000
Japan III               490              6,760,000,000       13,795,918
BCI                 1,020              4,974,022,860        4,876,493
Total 1978-1998                                 5,691             38,560,494,108        6,775,697
Total 1988-1998                                 5,464             37,891,157,020        6,934,692
Source DCES : School Construction and Equipment (primary education component, 1978-1998)
- 112 -



Description. The physical condition of the structures as a whole is very uneven: the structures financed by
the parents of students often have surface areas that are 50% below MEN norms and materials with a very
short life span. In general, the schools are in poor physical condition and are poorly equipped. According
to the December 1998 survey (see Table 3), 15% of the classrooms, that is, almost 3,000 rooms, must be
repaired, and 9% of the classes, that is, more than 1,600, are held in temporary facilities. A small number
of schools (39% in 1999) have a bathroom, and an even smaller number (33%) have running water.
Table 3: Condition of public elementary schools in Senegal in 1998
Dakar Diourbel Fatick Kaolack _Kolda  Louga St-Louis Tamba  Thies  Zipuin  Total
Schoolswlthmorethan3classes   96%   33%   41%   33%   24%   22%   45%   18%   50%   50%   34%
Schools with 1 admin. unit  83%   47%   38%   37%   18%    8%          12%   36%   10%   27%
Schoolsw. outerwall     83%   15%   20%   14%    6%    1%   33%    7%   40%   18%   20%
chools with a bathroom  83%   47%   48%   47%   44%   21%   46%   37%   57%   41%   39%
Schools with a faucet   67%   14%   23%   34%    7%    8%   33%    4%   30%    8%   19%
Schoolswithawell         1%    0%   20%    0%   22%   12%    9%    1%   12%   92%   14%
No. of temporary structures  3%   14%    7%   17%   16%   15%    2%   14%    5%    9%    9%
Classestoberenovated    11%   10%   28%    8%   15%    9%   29%   15%   15%   17%   15%
Shortageofdesk-chaircomb  12%    5%   17%   22%   11%   12%   11%   41%   16%   46%   18%
Shortage of teachers'desks  11%   18%   29%   35%   35%   26%   25%   30%   20%   33%   24%
Shortage of teachers'chairs    13%   15%   28%   25%   33%   24%   24%   33%   23%   54%   25%
Shortage of cabinets     0%    0%   54%   49%   11%    0%    0%   37%   39%    0%   17%
;uurce. uOPRE survey uf lAs, De--ei 4, -9
Occupancy Rate. Because the construction of classrooms has not kept pace with increased enrolment, the
number of students per class has remained very high. In the early 1 990s, it was 61 students per class, and
in the late 1990s, it was 58 students per class, a figure well above the maximum set by the Ministry of
National Education of 50 students per class. This ratio conceals a situation of extreme geographical
disparity. In fact, there were more than 70 students per class in Dakar (Guediawaye 1998/99), as opposed
to 39 in the Kolda region that same year. Classes become particularly crowded at the end of the elementary
school cycle as a result of the high number of students being held back largely because of the shortage of
spaces available at the middle school level.
Construction Planning and School Mapping. School mapping has, to date, been done in a centralized
manner by the DPRE. Construction programs financed under the State budget have been distributed in
such a way as to offset coverage inequities, while the geographic distribution of externally-funded
programs is often determined by the criteria stipulated by each financier (the JICA is involved in the urban
area, CIDA in the Saint Louis region, etc.). Table 4, shown below, compares the distribution of new
classrooms constructed between 1978 and 1998 with trends in enrolment ratios during roughly the same
period. Although the biggest recipient was Dakar, its enrolment ratios have deteriorated, since
construction has failed to keep pace with its strong demographic growth. With respect to the other regions,
those with the lowest enrolment ratios in 1991/92 (Diourbel 25%, Louga 35%, Tambacounda 36%,
Kaolack 37%, and Kolda 40%), are the ones, with the exception of Kaolack, that had the sharpest increases
in their enrolment ratios in the seven years that followed. However, as Table 1 illustrates, coverage among
regions has remained highly inequitable.
- 113-



Table 4: Number of classrooms built by the State and trends in school enrollment rates, by region
Dakar Diourbel  Fatick Kaolack  Kolda  Louoa St-Louis Tamba  Thies Ziauin  Total
Enrollment rate, 1991/92  93    25    42    37    40    35    52    36    59    94    56
enrollment rate, 1996197  91    29    46    41    54    43    62    56    58    89    60
Enrollment rate, 1998/99  90    36    50    41    70    52    66   71    69    93    66
Growth, in no. of % points  -3   11   9     4    30    17    14    36    10    -1   10
No. of classrooms built  832   500   517   713   718   369   656   517   770    99  5691
by the State, 1978-1 998  15%    9%    9%   13%   13%    6%   12%    9%   14%    2%  100%
Source: MENIDPRE, Statistical Yearbooks
Unit Cost of Construction. During the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, some fifteen prototypes were tested.
They included the use of local materials in a bid to lower investment costs (UNESCO-BREDA financing,
FED), an experiment that was unsuccessful in Senegal as it was elsewhere, or more developed techniques
(FED). In the early 1980s, construction costs of classrooms were high, amounting to CFAF 3.3 million or
US$ 13,200 (1982). At the same time, NGOs such as Aide et Action were building classrooms at a direct
cost of CFAF 2.63 million (1993), that is, a little over US$10,000, to which the indirect costs of
implementation should be added. Within the framework of the PDRH2 project, the MEN-DCES started
using a series of four simple construction models in classrooms at the elementary level, beginning in the
1980s, using modern materials, techniques, and expertise that matched the capabilities of small companies
in Senegal and offered choices to local governments. Their inside surface area was 59.2m2, and they were
enclosed by walls made of cement blocks and coverings of aluminum/zinc sheeting. The options included a
porch, the type of materials used (sheet metal, aluminum sheeting, or steel sheeting), and the roof slope.
One model was well-accepted and promoted by the MEN between 1994 and 1998 using multiple sources of
financing (IDA, KJW) in more than 2,000 units built by small local enterprises under a contract with the
AGETIP CMAs at an average price of CFAF 69,000/m2 of usable space in the six regions of the program
between 1995 and 1998, including the technical supervision costs of the contract management agencies,
that is, a total of CFAF 4 million per classroom, or approximately US$6,700, compared to the estimate of
US$9,300 given at the time of project evaluation. One of the models also includes blocks of three
classrooms with an office and a storage room. At the same time, through a project integrating community
participation, the Paul Gerin-Lajoie Foundation has been building a slightly different model of classrooms
in the St. Louis region since 1998, with a smaller surface area (54m2 of usable space), using CIDA
financing, the quality of which is below technical standards because of the absence of a design and
execution quality control mechanism, for a total construction price of CFAF 67,000/m2 of usable space
(including community participation and technical supervision costs), that is, a little less than 2% below
MEN/AGETIP costs. Also, Japan is financing classrooms that are the same size as the DCES model for a
high unit cost of CFAF 17 million per classroom, owing to differences in technical standards applicable to
the structures, covering materials, and procedures followed. In 1998, the DCES managed the following
construction programs: (a) 1020 classrooms financed by the State at an average construction price of
CFAF 83,420/m2, that is, an average unit cost of CFAF 4.88 million including taxes, equivalent to
US$8,130/m2 per classroom (58.5 m2); (b) a construction program financed under OPEC III at a unit
price of CFAF 4.45 million excluding taxes, equivalent to US$7,420/m2 excluding taxes; and (c) 245
classrooms using KfW financing in the Kaolack and Fatick regions. In 1999, the DCES is managing a
program of 1,000 classrooms financed by the State at a maximum price, set by the MEN in competitive
bidding, of CFAF 3.09 million, including taxes, equivalent to US$5,150/m2 (including taxes).
- 114-



Table 5: Unit costs of programs implemented between 1980 and 1999
Contract Primary       Company   CFA  Cost of I        Area   Cost per m2  Taxes  Incl. superv.
Construction programs      Year      Manager Contractor                 Fl   classroom.    m2       usable space 20%     costs
USS CCAF
iL'S$                 CFAF
DCES                       Early     DCES    DCES           Large       250  3.300,000       13,200 N/A          N/A     N/AExcl.No
1980
Aid and Action             1982      NGO       NGO          NGO/Pop   250  2,630,000         10,520 N/A          N/A     N/AExcl.No
DCES -4th Education project  1988-90   DCES    DCES         Large       250  3,500,000       14,000 N/A          N/A     N/AExcl.No
JIICA                      1992-93  JICA       Priv.         Large      250  16,900,000    67,600 N/A            N/A     N/AExcl.Yes
DCES - PDRH2 Project -     1993      DCES    Priv.          Small       250  2,330,000      9,320   59.2         39,358  157ExclYes
SAR Est.
DCES/AGETIP- PDRH2         1994-98   AGETIP  Priv.          Small       597  4,087,180      6,846   59.2         69,040  116Excl.Yes
Project 
Paul Gerin-Lajoie Foundation  1998   NGO       NGO          NGO/Pop   597  3,650,477         6,115   54.0        67,601  113Excl.Yes
DCES- Program for 1020     1998-99   DCES    DCES            Med./Sm    600  4,880,000       8,133   58.5        83,419  1391ncl.Yes
Classes
DCES/KFV                   1998-99   DCES    DCES            Med./Sm    600  N/A            N/A    N/A           N/A     N/AExcl.No
DCES - OPEC Financing      1998-99   DCES    DCES           Med./Sm    600  4,450,000        7,417   59.5        74,790  125Excl.No
DCES - Program for 1000    1999      DCES    DCES           Med./Sm    600  3,090,000        5,150   60.5        51,074  851ncl.No
classes(a)
Note: (a) Ceilings established in bid documents
Source: DCES
The Construction Program of the Quality Education for All Program (QEFA). Number of
Classrooms to be Constructed. The DPRE has estimated the number of classrooms to be constructed on
the basis of projections done by it for the PDEF, with the assistance of the CREA in order to achieve an
enrolment ratio at the primary level of 100%  in the year 2010. These projections take into account
additional objectives covering the same time period regarding the average projected occupancy rate of 50
students per class, and objectives for dual-stream and multigrade teaching. Table 6 below provides the
distribution by region of the objectives sought at the end of the QEFA Program with regard to the number
of classrooms to be constructed by the public and private sectors. This distribution will be used by the
DPRE to establish regional frameworks within which PRDEs will be developed or reviewed for the
2000-2003 period.
Table 6 : Number of classrooms to be built under the EQPT Program, by region and sector
No. of
classrooms to    Dakar    Diourbel   Fatick     Kaolack   Kolda      Louga     St. Louis  Tamba    Thies       Ziguin    Total
he built
Public sector     645        724       510        726        539       409        505       302        715       258       5333
-2000/2001       203        206        151       215        160        124       155        90        219        82       1,605
- 2001/2002      215        240        169       241        178        136       168        100       238        86       1,771
- 2002/2003      227        278        190       270        201        149       182        112       258        90       1,957
Private sector    340        66         18        78         28        39          9        21         172        36       807
-2000/2001       107         18         6         22         8         12   1    3           5         48        11        240
-2001/2002        113        22         6         26         9         13         3          7         57        12        268
- 2002/2003      120         26         6         30         11        14         3          9         67        13        299
Total             985        790       528        804        567       448        514       323        887       294       6140
2000-2003                                                                     l                    l
- 2000/2001      310        224        157       237        168        136       158        95        267        93        1,845
- 2001/2002      328        262        175       267        187        149       171        107       295        98       2,039
0 - 2002/2003    347        304        196       300        212   1  163   ,  185           121       325        103      2,256
Note: These figures do not include classrooms being built to replace temporary structures.
Source: CREA - Evaluation of costs and financing for PDEF
- 115-



Estimated Unit Cost of Classrooms. The unit cost of classrooms at the primary level for the first phase
of the PDEF classroom program (the QEFA Program) is estimated at CFAF4.36 million (excluding taxes),
based on a construction model that is identical to that of the PDRH2, the unit cost of which is estimated at
CFAF 4.0 million or US$6,107/m2, excluding the additional spaces. The unit cost of the room, strictly
speaking, has been increased by a coefficient of 9% (estimated on the basis of past experience in order to
make provisions for additional services (storage room, office, toilets). A study is under way to examine
possible ways to cut costs, using the same architectural model, by reducing the technical specifications (15
cm instead of 20 cm walls, for example), without shortening the life span of the structures.
Table 7: Estimated cost of classrooms - lower level, basic education
Item                                     '/otaxes                             Excluding    Including all
20%                     taxes        taxes
Cost of bare classroom                                              CFAF       4,000,000    4,800,000
Cost of 1/6 of rel. services (office, store, latrine)               CFAF        366,667     440,000
Package cost: classroom+ related services, in CFAF                  CFAF       4,366,667    5,240,000
Amount rounded in CFAF                                              CFAF       4,400,000    5,240,000
Package cost in dollars                              CFAF/US$       US$          6,984       8,317
exch. rate
Amount rounded in US$                                                            7,000       8,300
Source: DCES
Distribution among Development Partners. The estimated distribution of construction among partners is
based on the following scenarios: (i) the portion of construction financed by the private sector, which has
always hovered around 13% in the past, could be maintained, (ii) construction financed by local
governments using their own funds or using specific aid programs, such as local development projects (
PAC, PNIR, European Union) or decentralized cooperation, for example, could amount to 4% of total
construction, (iii) the current contribution of the government using its own budget, that is 1,000 classrooms
at the elementary level, would be maintained, (iv) 45% of the 1,685 temporary facilities would be replaced
with 750 new classrooms, and (v) the agreements concluded or under discussion with foreign partners will
be executed on the dates scheduled. Based on these scenarios, financing is available for the program to
build 6,000 classrooms within three years of the QEFA Program by the public sector.
116-



Table 8: Estimated distribution of construction among development artners
Total cost    Total cost
School years                                  2000/2001    2001/2002    2002/2003    Total         excl. taxes   incl. taxes
2000/2002     US$             US$
Corresponding fiscal years                    2000         2001         2002
Additional construction req. (total)                1,845        2,039        2,256         6,140
Private sector    13%                                240          268           299          807     5,649,000     6,698,100
Public sector  87%                                  1,605        1,771        1,957         5,333    37,331,000    44,263,900
Replacement temp. struct. (Public sector)            250          250           250          750     5,250,000     6,225,000
Total public sector                                1,855        2,021        2,207        6,083    42,581,000    50,488,900
IDA                                                  350           350          300         1,000    7,000,000     8,300,000
AFD                       (a)                           -         200           145          345     2,415,000    28,635,000
JICA                      (b)                         45             -          500          545     3,815,000     4,523,500
Paul Gerin-Lajoie         (c)                        100                          -          100       700,000      830,000
AE-PUSE - counterpart funds  (c)                      60             -            -           60       420,000      498.000
Plan International        (d)                         40           40            40          120       840,000      996,000
AfDB                      (e)                         75            75            -          150      1,050,000    1,245,000
OPEC                      (e)                        120           120                       240      1,680,000    1,992,000
IDB                       (f)                        500             -            -          500     3,500,000     4,150,000
Local communities         4%                          74            81           88          243      1,703,240    2,019,556
BCI Investment                                       750         1,000        1,000         2,750    19,250,000    22,825,000
Total - all partners                                2,114        1,866        2,073         6,053    42,373,240    50,242,556
Deficit: additional donors to be sought             (259)          155          134           30       207,289      246,344
(a) In the departments of Kolda / Velingara, Matam
(b) For 2000 - 45 classes at end of current program. A program for 500 classes is in preparation.
(c) End of current program.
(d) Based on past programs.
(e) According to AfDB appraisal report, AfDB will finance 150 basic education classrooms and OPEC will
finance 240.
(f) In four regions: Kolda, Ziguinchor, Dakar, and Thies.
Institutional Context.
Change in Paradigm Resulting from Decentralization. Prior to the Decentralization Law, the
management of school construction programs financed by the State or by external funding was, from a
legal standpoint, the sole responsibility of the MEN. The DAGE was responsible for implementing them
through its specialized division, the DCES. The latter was established as a directorate in 1998. The DAGE
(prior to December 1998) and the DCES (since that time) have managed the construction programs
financed by the State (BCI) and financing from a number of external sources (AfDB, OPEC), while the
management of construction programs financed by the IDA and KIW was assigned by the MEN to the
AGETIP, within the framework of contract management agency (CMA) agreements. There have been
significant delays in the programs directly managed by the DCES due to cumbersome procedures and
difficulties linked to the effective supervision of work by the administration. The delays in the programs
assigned to AGETIP, an agency established for the specific purpose of managing construction programs
comprised of a large volume of small labor-intensive jobs performed by small enterprises, have not been as
long. A number of programs have been managed directly by financial partners (JICA, CIDA).
After the Decentralization Law. The 1996 Law transferred the following authority to elected local
governments (LGs): (a) to the Regional Councils, participation in regional school mapping and the
maintenance of middle schools and high schools; (b) to municipalities and rural communities, the
construction, outfitting, maintenance, and upkeep of elementary schools and pre-school classrooms. LGs
are now the contracting agencies for elementary classrooms, although this transfer of authority has not been
- 117 -



accompanied by a transfer of investment funds; only operating funds have been transferred to LGs
pursuant to this law.
DCES: Institutional Role prior to Decentralization. Pursuant to Decree 86-877 organizing the MEN
and Order 122270/MEN/SG/BPE of September 28, 1986, the DCES is responsible for the implementation
of government policy in the area of construction and school equipment within the DAGE. Decree 98/975 of
March 12, 1998 made the DCES a directorate of the MEN with the same mandate. According to this
mandate, the DCES is responsible for (i) construction programming, (ii) the design of norms and standards,
(iii) the design and execution of constructions projects and programs, including procurement, oversight and
receipt of work, and the preparation of statements; (iv) management of property logs and the coordination
of activities in this area. The directorate has three divisions: (i) construction, design, norms and standards,
programming, and oversight, (ii) equipment and maintenance, and (iii) property and information. It works
jointly with a property, construction, and school equipment office in each IA.
Contract Management Agency. In 1993, in order to facilitate the rapid execution of construction
programs involving a large volume of small jobs performed by small enterprises, the Government created
the AGETIP. It is a non-governmental, non-profit, and public association that is governed by Law 68.08
establishing the code of civil and commnercial obligations. In addition to labor-intensive construction
programs assigned directly by the State to AGETIP in order to generate employment, the ministerial
departments that so desire can delegate to the AGETIP responsibility for the management of their
construction programs. This was done in the case of the construction of schools using IDA financing for
the PDRH2, the construction of health stations using IDA, AfDB, and KIW financing from the PDIS, ADM
municipal public works, etc. The members of this executing agency are the BTP union of workers, the
National Council of Employers of Senegal (Conseil National du Patronat du Senegal--CNPS), the
Association of Mayors of Senegal (Association des Maires du Senegal--AMS), and the Director of the
Agency. Based on this formula, the State or local governments assign execution of a public program, the
terms of which are stated in an agreement, to an organization operating according to private sector rules.
The Agency can depart from the national rules of Decree 82-690 pertaining to government procurement
and apply procurement and contract management procedures that are considerably faster, governed by its
Manual of Procedures approved by the Ministry of Finance. This Agency is paid at a rate of 3 to 5% of
the program cost, depending on the specific features of the program. A similar agency for roadwork within
the framework of .he (Deuxieme Programme Sectoriel des Transports -- PST2) project is being
established. The Ministry of National Education is also planning to establish, based on this model, an
agency for the school-related construction, and had a feasibility study done in October 1999.
Distribution of Responsibilities in the QEFA Program.
Construction Planning. This planning which, to date, has been highly centralized, is no longer in effect.
Responsibility for education planning, including construction, has been turned over to the elected Regional
Councils. For preparation of the PDEF, the MEN is currently testing a bottom-up, decentralized approach
to planning involving the preparation of the PDDEs, prepared in conjunction with the MEN-elected
governments, which include, in particular, construction planning. Prior to the launching of the PDEF,
these PDDEs will be consolidated into PRDEs. It is e.xpected that arbitration will take place at the regional
level within a financial framework for each region established at the central level to ensure that the PRDE
amounts are compatible with the PDEF. At the end of the process, the PDDEs and PRDEs will be
contracted out between the Ministry of Education, represented by its decentralized entities, and its partners
elected from the decentralized levels. At the end of PDEF, the goal of planning becomes twofold: (i)
reduction of differences among and within regions as well as urban and rural disparities; (ii) reduction to 0
the number of homes located more than 4km from the nearest school. Table 9 outlines the 1998-1999
-118-



regional disparities in classrooms.
Table 9: (%) difference between region well equipped in classrooms and regions with less classrooms in 1998199
nfakar Dliniirhel  FAtink Kanle'k  Kni]Hn  I n-gA 'qt-t nuis  Tgmha   Thips  7igiiin   Tntatl
Number of enrolled children  305    51    72    85    87    49    95    55   150    88   1036
Gross Enrollment Rate     90    36    50    41    70    52    66    71    69    93              66
Numberof children to be enrolled   338   142   143   207   124    94   144    78   218    94   1582
Number of classrooms    5141    990  1401   1849   1750   1253   1827   1490   2234   1469  19,404
R'ttion hilrrpn t h. nrnItH/csc   86   144    1n9   117    71    75    7P    "i9    A8    84    RX -
Gap/Diourbel in 1998/99  54%    0%   29%   22%   50%   48%   45%   64%   32%   55%    43%
Source students. GER and number of classrooms. MEN-OPRE
Memorandums of Agreement between the MEN and LGs. In view of the fact that local governments
(municipalities and rural communities) have been in charge of contract management for construction since
the Decentralization Law, the MEN has developed a tool for the two partners (the A/EN and LGs) to reach
an understanding on common rules establishing key elements to be observed by LGs in the construction of
a new classroom, so that the MEN can provide a teacher, books, and possibly finance construction. These
rules include: (i) School mapping guidelines for the establishment of a new classroom, including
consideration of multigrade teaching, (ii) minimum technical standards and specifications to be observed,
including the provision by the MEN of standards plans; (iii) the commitment of the LG to put in place the
resources necessary for maintenance, and (iv) the commitment to use the services of a CMA. These rules
have been included in a memorandum of agreement that the MEN is proposing to sign with three
associations of elected representatives (Presidents of Regional Councils, Mayors, and Presidents of Rural
Communities). In this document, these three associations of elected representatives pledge to follow these
rules, regardless of the origin of funds used to build classrooms (governments, donors, NGOs,
decentralized cooperation, and other projects such as the PAC).
Contract Management Agency. Since the LGs have served as contract management agencies for school
construction since 1996, the CMA must now enter into a CMA agreement with each LG that wishes to
build a classroom using CMA services for the management of the construction contract and supervision of
the work. For the QEFA Program, the MEN has proposed a contracting arrangement between the MEN,
LGs, and the CMA that is similar to the one that has been successfully used since 1996 in the Ministry of
Finance within the framework of the PDIS. The MEN signs a framework agreement with the CMA in
which it assigns to the CMA: (i) management of its 95% subsidy for the construction of classrooms to be
built on a LG list established in the framework agreement, (ii) responsibility for entering into specific CMA
agreements with each LG for the management of the 5% of LG co-financing and the management of the
construction contract and supervision of work. After signing all specific agreements with the LGs, the
CMA organizes the construction program in parcels, issues a national invitation for competitive bidding (
appel d 'offres national, A ON) for construction, hires the contracting agency on a competitive basis, and
manages the contracts for work and supervision on behalf of the LGs. Figure 1 and 2 highlight the
contractual arrangements for school construction programs financed by IDA. With some minor
modifications, a similar strategy can be applied to ADF financing.
Role of the DCES. Based on the PDEF, the functions of the DCES have been changed drastically. The
former function of execution of construction programs will now be delegated to executing agencies, while
the new duties of the DCES are the design, promotion, orientation, evaluation, and oversight of the
construction component (including maintenance) and the implementation of State policy in the area of
education. In particular, the DCES field of activity now covers the entire educational sector. It is
responsible for preparing and implementing ministerial decisions in the areas of: (a) formulating and
financing educational policies in the area of construction, overseeing their application and evaluating their
- 119 -



impact; (b) determining the objectives of the work of the decentralized services of the Ministry, in
conjunction with the decentralized governments, and evaluating results. More specifically, these new duties
could be described as follows:
(i)    Preparing, completing, and overseeing implementation of memorandums of agreement between the
MEN and local governments in order to reach an understanding on overall mechanisms (rules) for
implementation of national policy (for example, criteria for resource allocation for construction so that the
classrooms to be built by local governments are included in school mapping, or even minimum technical
and pedagogical specifications to be followed to guarantee the quality of school constructions). Overseeing
the implementation of school mapping, the criteria for which have been spelled out in the memorandums of
agreement;
(ii)   Facilitating the adherence by local governments to PRDEs and PDDEs in the area of
infrastructure. Assisting with the definition of the obligations of local governments within the framework
of the PDDEs and PRDEs, so that they are adequate, and monitoring and evaluating their implementation.
Assisting local governments with the signing of contract management agreements with executing agencies;
and overseeing and evaluating the implementation of these agreements. Assisting local governments with
the organization, budgeting, and performance of their obligations in the area of construction maintenance,
and overseeing the actual maintenance work by local governments;
(iii)   Participating in the drafting of PDDE and PRDE performance indicators for the construction and
maintenance of classrooms, school mapping, and construction quality; monitoring performance with respect
to execution of the PDDEs and PRDEs, evaluating potential problems, and proposing corrective measures.
Ensuring coordination with all local governments in order to provide a status report on progress with the
different programs for the construction and maintenance of classrooms, and proposing the necessary
corrective action. Collecting information related to the construction and maintenance of classrooms, and
ensuring the processing of this information and its dissemination to all persons involved in this system in a
manner suited to decision-making.
- 120 -



Sch6ma 1: Contractualisation du Droqramme de constructions scolaires (6lementaire)
|  Partenaires au    |
Developpement
Banque Mondiale
Accord de Credit
Financemen Projet                 Regles duJe
_  | -       _~~~~~~~~~~ Agence de
MEN I Association Collectivites                  Developpement
DDI                                                                I        MunicaPal
Ministeres  Adhesion de t'Agence
Finances                                     Protocole d' Accor'dau reales duProtocole
et Plan
Budaet |             - ~~~~~Mariuel de Procedures   Signatur |   soiton des Maires
9               ~~~~~~~incl. ACP et Conv. MOD  Protocolel
_     .                            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~criteres carte scol.  d'Accord  ou Presidents de
-plans types                            Conseils ReglCom. Rural
/ - ~~~~~~~~Engagement entretien
Mini-stere                 Siqnatr                                                              *  desion chaque Call.
Education       DPE       Prot,o                                                                    atcld'Accord
Nationale                    cod_
Commune urbane ou
Communaute 
DAGE    |  DCES  |_ ADDUj teDnioue par structures deconcentrees (CTs               Rurale       
Com. Svec  l    l  S~~uivi engagements Collectivites dans PDDE et PRDE  Sintrs1m
Signa-l      Suivi techique                                              Conventions/*I                              I
tuored       |executiong Accor Car                                          e MO  I   /       oiiat  uaeZ|
Cadrel        I        I                  MatreE          MMaitre                   |                              lesl
etiCn.              E NDeleuvaeE                         0Delegue                            L     IIInautesl
R  n                    |~~~~ ~~~~te Y          r   urales|
IAccord Cadre de                             Convention               II   peuventl
ProJetl                                 Maltrlse     |        te Z           || apporterl
Conventlonl de                        Ouvrage                 |                  1lllleurs|
Flnancement                           Deleguee (MOD)                               5   ||| (mn)
x Communes  95% maxg                Fin. Collectivite 5% mini|                       en|
yComm.Rur. 95% maxE                  Terrain viabilise                    |||nature|
j 2 w MOD / C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ollectivite Y| 
[            5                  1|    MOD I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Collectivite Z 
|           ~~~~~ACP et Con    ConventionQ 
|         ~~~~de Financemet         de MOD I/                                                  |
suivi etl                        
Evaluation                      _             Maitre           Reetons conjointes des travaux | 
Madtre d'Ouvrage|                                 d'Ouvrage         |pr4oletvte (Maitre d'ouvrage) et||
Deleguef        -1d      rv                Delegue               -eaitd'Ouv  age Delegue|     
| Appel dolfres taax                               
|par lots e/          Consulltation   Preparaton|
|contrat              |restreinte    |DOy.c. part.                    |
I        /           t ~~~~~et contrat     communaute|
|~~ ~~~~~~~~ i; ;  ;; i     ne       Matr        |uvision travaux
lRalisation                 
Entreprise          a         _ Dar
i                                      ~~~~~ ~        ~ ~~~~~ ~          ~ ~~~Classe  Classe  Classe
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Collectivlte X  CollectiviteY  Collectivite Z
et aricipeatiaon au erlmaceptionstravax aUrsrtaru9ctures deconcentes de DCES (CTRs)e  
- 121-



Schema 2: Flux financiers du Droq ramme de constructions scolaires (6lementaire)
Partenaires a                      g
Developpement                              Manuel des Procedures
Banoue Mondiale    I
Alimentation           Demande de reali-
Compte Special            mentation du CS        MEN ! Assocations Collectivites                  Financeur extedeur
eventuel de la
i |  Protocole d' Accord                    ou des collectivites
Ministere                                     -Proportion de financement
Finances                     l                 entre Ministere Education
et Plan                     __           i     (au plus 95%) et                                           Financement
fMinistere    |              
Education    |    PRE  ;|         FnnraleehIP  EAc, e  ecmdIDs
|  DCE    | |   AGE  |3sionsa DDI pour            |par DDI                           Io                  
MEN      dOu~~~~Collctvits       docalrs                    AssCoitectiviteXe
1   1 158m_  paien enl du MOD   |                                |    Communau~~~~~mires   teRrl  
Dele=ue .           . Cemande paiment sel on    PIdente
MInistionesere                                                                          Rurale'sI  Conimhautt ruraleZ
Na  ionaleAccord Cadre de                   ;        Convention                                 ie c0-
|   Projet/ I                              Maitrise        |    tz         |I      fnce
Convention de            P       lt       Ouvrags s                                  ment
|     }      |      ~~~Financement     -tj |              Deleguee (MOD)    |           fi |I         do S%|
X          Communes  95%        i       Fin.  Collectivite 5%                              etre
Ejl  Y Comm. Ru.  95%                            Teain viabilise        
4   |   'g,01       1  1   1  1                           1   1    1      1 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~en nature
I~ ~ ~~~l~s, 1ii~ 19           _             |          S| MDCollectivite Y'|             2          condtlions|
paemendu                     MODM     / Collectivite Z   |mmu |u              |     parRle|
C |Demande de Paiement selon             D                                                    maitre
| |Accord Cadre at Convention                   ons c |n|e|'oeuvre|
|      de Financement          ____________                                                          cans Ia
IControle                                                                 a ateI<Dut etre finance sous forme de  | travaux|
Ca Ia mission du Maitre dOuvrae                dOuvrage                  travaux annexes (eau, daoture)        atee
Isur la base de lAccord Cadre       |           Dlge1contratl
et Convention de Financement                                                transmission                    dentre-
I                         I             ~~~~~~~ ~        ~~Paiment  |decomptes                   prise
l   l                   mission del             |tnavaux                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sub-|
Paiment
|  decomptes |   r =| Contrat ligi  jl,.lMContrat       Maitre   |
|entrepnses|    i | ralisai;      :  atS3,           |      d      Cnrl  e  rvu  nved
MENpresl    ,i,taJ2    iQd'Ouvvrage    d I    Oeuvre    CertictiiondestdecomptesX ouraiment
|certification|   i_l        i~ ciE,l_ 4 '                             l                 |        
|   parl             transmissior~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rrae
  d'oeuvre |  ||Acerticocation                                      o  t       e Y                     l 
PnreosetMirste                                                                 iac
Constention d                           Ouvrage                                    men
etravaux par tots                        Ctasse              Ctasse              Classe
X Commune.declasses                        Coltectiviteti      vitlectiviteY      CollectiviteZ
|Suivi at evaluation par CCES des performances du Maitre d   Tuvrage Delegue,                                fm Maitres d'euvre alas Entrepnses
a et participation aus receptions de travaux, par las structures deconcentrees de ll DCES (CTRs)             p l
- 1 22 -



Strengthening of the DCES.  The DCES has plans to hire two engineers or architects to head (i) the
Division of construction and repairs (construction norms and standards, monitoring of programs, adherence
by local governments to the clauses of the memorandum of understanding, and provision of information on
the status of the entire inventory and implementation of upkeep and maintenance programs by the MEN
and/or local governments, as appropriate), (ii) the Division of equipment (norms and lists of standard
equipment for scientific instruction and material and technical instruction at all levels of teaching,
management of property and oversight of maintenance and replacements provided by the MEN and local
governments). The technical personnel currently in the Dakar directorate will be redeployed to the lAs to
serve as technical regional coordinators. This personnel will assist local governments in assessing needs,
monitoring programs, overseeing the performance of CMAs, and ensuring that local governments fulfill
their obligations.
Technical Control. The MEN will hire a technical control entity that has received insurance approval as
part of the 1 0-year guarantee to provide technical supervision of the quality of the studies and work based
on current norms. The hiring of this entity will take place using a short list, using a selection method that is
based on the technical quality of the bid and price. Within the framework of the QEFA Program, it is
expected that technical oversight will apply to the entire construction program, regardless of the source of
financing (AFD, AfDB, OPEC, IDA, NGO, Government, etc.).
Maintenance of classrooms and furniture. The high number of repair jobs performed during the PDRH2
Project (700) and the remaining number (almost 3,000, that is, 15% of the entire inventory), is largely the
result of a lack of maintenance in the past. Since 1996, LGs (municipalities and rural communities) have
been responsible for the maintenance of elementary schools, and funds for maintenance, formerly managed
by the MEN, have been transferred to them. The total budget transferred amounted to CFAF 290 million in
1999, which represents an average budget per classroom of less than CFAF 14,300 (see Table 8 below) for
all maintenance expenses related to the structure, furniture, and outside areas, that is, approximately 0.4%
of the property value, a figure that is well below the 1 to 2% ratios internationally recognized as being
necessary in this area. Furthermore, these budgets are very unevenly distributed among regions: the ratio
indicated above is in fact 0.1% in the Fatick region and 0.6% in the This region. Within the framework of
the AfDB project (Education II), the DCES did a test of the preventive maintenance system in 1998 in the
St. Louis and Kolda regions based on: (i) the distribution of maintenance tasks between local governments
responsible for major work and the management committees of schools responsible for minor work; (ii) the
provision of tool kits, logs, and maintenance manuals, and the provision of material to the management
committees of schools, and (iii) the training of partners and technical support of CTRs. A high-quality
manual entitled "Let's Maintain our School" has been produced. A test evaluation during the first phase of
QEFA Program will permit lessons to be drawn with a view to possible continuation or extension. In
addition, the PDEF plans to test a matching fund system during the first phase of the QEFA Program, in
order to assist LGs in financing maintenance and to encourage them to spend the entire maintenance budget
transferred to them. The Memorandum of Agreement between the MEN and LGs also makes provisions for
a commitment on the part of LGs to include maintenance expenses in their budget as a condition for MEN
construction assistance. Partners such as the CFD and IDA have also made this a condition for financial
assistance with construction. The DCES will be responsible for oversight of this expenditure and for
preparing an annual report on this subject, in conjunction with the DAGE.
- 123 -



Table 10: Maintenance budget transferred to local communities and spending ratio per classroom
Dakar  Diourbel  Fatick   Kaolack   Kolda   Louga  St.          Tamba  Thies   Ziguin  Total
Louis
Budget transferred,
millions of CFAF
Ch. 503-9601              72        9         9        33       12       15      36       18       60      26       290
No. of classrooms to be
maintained
No.- Elementary         4,755     1,001    1,271    1,633    1,521    1,308    1,586     991    2,285    1,469   17,550
No. - Middle level       602       77       157      182       72      112      55       64      303      205     1,829
No.- Secondary           372       40       76        30       25      63        18      18      168      114      924
Total No. classmis.     5,729     1,118    1,504    1,845    1,618   1,213    1,659    1,073   2,756   1,788   20,303
Average annual
maintenance budget per
classroon, in CFAF
12,568    8,050    5,984    17,886    7,417   12,366   21,700   16,775  21,771   14,541   14,284
Value of built property, in
millions of CFAF
22,916    4,472    6,016    7,380    6,472   4,852    6,636    4,292   11,024   7,152   81,212
Spending ratio for
maintenance per
classroom
- as %of constr. cost    0.3%      0.2%     0.1%      0.4%     0.2%    0.3%     0.5%     0.4%    0.5%    0.4%      0.4%
Source: Statistical Yearbook, 1998/1999, for the number of elementary and middle-level classrooms.
The number of secondary school classrooms was estimated on the basis of figures supplied by DEMSG for preparation of the PDEF, and an average of
50 students/class. The transferred budget was provided by MEN/DAGE, Table of Credit Transfers by Region and Article.
- 124 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Triggers for Phases 2 and 3 of the Adaptable Program Loan
SENEGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Phase 2 Triggers.
There are 3 triggers conditioning the transition to Phase 2, linked to the 3 components financed in Phase 1:
(a)    Access. An agreement between the Ministry of Education and the 3 Associations of Local
Government Officials regarding the details of the school mapping exercise as a basis for planning regional
and departmental education development plans (PRDE and PDDE );
(b)    Quality. An evaluation of the various pilot tests carried out in Phase 1, and decisions taken as a
result of these evaluations in order to implement Phase 2 activities (see below);
(c)    Decentralized management. The existence of sufficient capacity at the regional level for
managing the education system.
Table 1: Criteria for evaluating Phase 2 Triggers.
Access           The geo-referenced school map is in place and operational; the local collectivities are
familiar with it and use it for preparing the PDDE;
Quality           The pilot test of multigrade teaching conducted in 500 schools is evaluated and
decisions for Phase 2 are taken;
The pilot phase of the small grants program for school improvement in 400 schools is
evaluated and decisions for Phase 2 are taken;
The pilot testing of the reading initiative in 10-15 schools per IDEN is evaluated and
decisions for Phase 2 are taken;
The introduction of national languages in Grades I and 2 is evaluated and decisions
for Phase 2 are taken;
Standardized evaluations of student leaming have been conducted for Grade 4 and
decisions for Phase 2 are taken.
- 125 -



Decentralized    A sectoral policy for vocational training is adopted and agreed with stakeholders;
management
The financial framework for the PDEF, based on the simulation model prepared by
MEN with CREA support, has been revised as a result of Phase 1 experiences; an
updated, sustainable financial framework has been adopted for 2004-20 1 0 by MEN
and MEFP and has received the support of the development partners including IDA;
Capacity for financial management in the regions has been put in place and is judged
acceptable by IDA;
A detailed evaluation of institutional capacity has been carried out for each region,
and an action plan to strengthen capacity has been adopted by each region;
The household survey has been carried out, and its conclusions have been provided to
the regions as input into the preparation of the PRDE;
8 PRDE out of 10, prepared in a participative manner (MEN/local collectivities) by
the regions for 2004-07, have been evaluated and judged acceptable by a committee
including MEN, IDA, and other donor representatives, based on appraisal criteria
detailed below:
Evaluation criteria for appraisal of the PRDE. The PRDE will be appraised by a commission
comprising the CONSEF and key donor representatives. An L4 or an IDEN cannot chair meetings of the
appraisal commission for the PRDE of his/her own region. The evaluation criteria that each PRDE must
satisfy are set out in the accompanying grid. For approval, a PRDE must satisfy all of the criteria. If one
or several criteria are not satisfied, an action plan will be adopted and serve as a contract between the
CONSEF and the region in question in order to make up the deficiency.
Table2 Evaluation criteria for appraisal of the PRDE
Access           Access goals are defined by the region and the rural communities and seek to reduce
by half existing inequalities in terms of coverage;
The multigrade extension program is defined, and complements the goal of reducing
by at least half the number of schools offering incomplete cycles;
The construction program respects the priority given to multigrade schooling and
seeks to reduce by half the number of schools located at more than 4km from the most
distant eligible student; and to complete the retrofitting of schools with latrines;
The development of middle schooling in line with the strategy of neighborhood middle
schools;
The regional plan for development of VET is consistent with the new sub-sectoral
policy.
- 126 -



Quality            Quality objectives are defined for the region, the departments, the communes and the
rural communities in terms of pass rates/repetition rates, improved results on
standardized tests;
The objectives for the program of special initiatives targeting repetition and dropout
are clearly defined and the implementation strategies clearly described;
The program to increase teaching in national languages takes into consideration the
results of the first phase testing; the evaluation system for this program is in place;
The system of decentralized choice of textbooks is working in each IDEN; the system
for monitoring the book stocks is in place;
The textbook distribution system is functional;
Each IDEN prepares and implements an action plan for the development of reading
initiatives;
The program for going to scale with the small grants program for school
improvement is clear: eligible activities are well defined, information mechanisms for
the collectivities are well defined; the system for evaluating school improvement
proposals is in place; the monitoring system is in place;
The program for teaching science and technology is clear, including the choice
between the kit-based system and the use of laboratories, or some combination of the
two based on results of the first phase;
The program for taking the computer technology program to scale is clearly defined;
The program for in-service teacher training is clear; it is teacher-driven and based on
expressed need;
The objectives for the follow-up to the adult literacy program are clear for each
department, commune and rural community.
- 127 -



Decentralized     The cost of the PRDE is correctly analyzed, distributed among MEN, local
Management        collectivities, private sector, and households, and fits the financial framework set by
the DPRE;
The objectives regarding redeployment of non-teaching teachers are clear, as are the
measures proposed to meet these objectives;
The objectives for recruiting teachers and managing them at the regional level are
well defined;
The objectives for cost recovery linked to the secondary school small grants program
are clear and in line with national objectives;
The involvement of local collectivities is clearly identified, by regional council,
commune and rural community, and is negotiated and agreed by representatives of the
local collectivities;
The unit cost goals within the region are known and fit with the objectives of the
._____ __    PDEF framework.
Phase 3 Triggers.
The Phase 3 triggers will be updated in detail at the end of Phase 1. However, they will fall into the
following broad framework:
(a)    Access. Agreement between the MEN and the 3 Associations of local government officials on the
means to completely eliminate disparities in coverage between regions, departments, towns and villages,
rural and urban settings, boys and girls;
(b)    Quality. Evaluation of all of the initiatives taken to scale in Phase 2, and decisions taken regarding
the corrections needed so that each initiative can meet the goals of the end of Phase 3;
(c)    Decentralized management. The existence of capacity to manage the education system at the
department level.
- 128 -



Table 3 Criteria for evaluating Phase 3 Triggers.
Access:           The geo-referenced school map is used by the local collectivities for preparing the
PDDE.
Quality           The multigrade teaching program is evaluated and decisions for changes in Phase 3
are taken;
The small grants program for school improvement is evaluated and decisions for
changes in Phase 3 are taken;
The reading initiative is evaluated and decisions for changes in Phase 3 are taken;
The use of national languages is evaluated and decisions for changes in Phase 3 are
taken;
Standardized evaluations of student learning have been conducted for Grades 4, 6
and 9; the results have been widely disseminated and serve as input for Phase 3
decisions.
Decentralized     The implementation of the sub-sectoral policy for vocational training is evaluated
management        and decisions for Phase 3 are agreed with stakeholders and donors;
The financial framework for the PDEF, based on the simulation model prepared by
MEN with CREA support, has been revised as a result of Phase 2 experiences; an
updated, sustainable financial framework has been adopted for 2007-2010 by MEN
and MEFP and has received the support of the development partners including IDA;
Capacity for financial management in the departments has been put in place and is
judged acceptable by IDA;
A detailed evaluation of institutional capacity has been carried out for each
department, and an action plan to strengthen capacity has been adopted by each
department;
The household survey has been carried out, and its conclusions have been provided
to the departments as input into the preparation of the PRDE;
33 PDDE out of 41, prepared for 2007-10 10 in a participative manner in the
departments by the IDEN, the communes, and the rural communities, have been
evaluated and judged acceptable by a committee including MEN, IDA, and other
donor representatives, based on appraisal criteria detailed below:
Evaluation criteria for appraisal of the PDDE. The PDDE will be appraised by a commission
comprising the CONSEF, the IAs, and key donor representatives. An IDEN cannot chair meetings of the
appraisal commission for the PDDE of her/his own department. The evaluation criteria that each PDDE
must satisfy are set out in the accompanying grid which will be prepared and adopted at the end of Phase 1.
For approval, a PDDE must satisfy all of the criteria. If one or several criteria are not satisfied, an action
plan will be adopted and serve as a contract between the L4 and the department in question in order to make
up the deficiency.
- 129 -



Table 4 Evaluation criteria for appraisal of the PDDE
Access            Access goals are defined for the department, by commune(s) urban region, and rural
communities and seek to eliminate existing inequalities in terms of coverage;
The multigrade extension program is defined, and complements the goal of elimination of
schools offering incomplete cycles;
The construction program respects the priority given to multigrade schooling and seeks to
ensure that no schools are located at more than 4km from the most distant eligible student;
and to complete the retrofitting of schools with latrines;
The development of middle schooling in line with the strategy of neighborhood middle schools;
The regional plan for development of VET is consistent with the new sub-sectoral policy.
Quality           Quality objectives are defined for the departments, by commune and rural community in terms
of pass rates/repetition rates, improved results on standardized tests;
The objectives for the program of special initiatives targeting repetition and dropout are clearly
defined and the implementation strategies clearly described;
The program to increase teaching in national languages takes into consideration the results of
the second phase evaluations; the evaluation system for this program is in place at the
departmental level;
The system of decentralized choice of textbooks is working satisfactorily in each IDEN; the
system for monitoring the book stocks is in place, and the system for correcting weaknesses is
implemented;
The textbook distribution system is functioning satisfactorily;
Each IDEN prepares and implements an action plan for the development of reading initiatives
in each school;
The program for going to scale with the small grants program for school improvement at all
schools within the department is clear: eligible activities are well defined, information
mechanisms for the collectivities are well defined; the system for evaluating school
improvement proposals is in place; the system for monitoring the program by the IDEN is in
place;
The program for teaching science and technology is clear, and takes into consideration the
evaluation conducted at the end of the second phase;
Modifications in computer technology program are decided for Phase 3;
The program for in-service teacher training is clear; it is teacher-driven and based on expressed
need;
The objectives for the continuation of the adult literacy program are clear for each department,
commune and rural community.
- 130 -



Decentralized      The cost of the PDDE is correctly analyzed, distributed among MEN, local collectivities,
Management         private sector, and households, and fits within the PRDE financial framework;
The objectives regarding redeployment of non-teaching teachers are clear, as are the measures
proposed to meet these objectives;
The objectives for recruiting teachers are well defined;
The objectives for cost recovery linked to the secondary school small grants program are clear
and in line with national objectives;
The involvement of local collectivities is clearly identified, by commune and rural community,
and is negotiated and agreed by representatives of the local collectivities.
- 1 31 -



Additional
Annex No.: 14
Letter of Sector Policy
SEN1EGAL: Quality Education For All Program
Introduction
La politique d'education du Senegal pour la prochaine decennie (1999-2008), s'inspire de la loi d'
Orientation 91-22 du 16 fevrier 1991. Tout en tirant les lecons du processus de developpement emprunte
jusque lA, elle prend en compte les mutations intervenues dans l'environnement interne et externe du
systeme educatif, et s'ouvre aux differents defis pour faire du Senegal un pays emergeant aux plans
industriel, technologique et democratique, et permettre, ainsi, A sa jeunesse d'entrer confortablement dans le
prochain millenaire dont les ddbuts sont marques par une dynamique acceler6e de mondialisation
Conformement aux options du IX eme Plan qui s'inscrivent dans l'optique de la mise en place d'un
cadre macro-economique viable, mettant l'accent sur l'amelioration continue de la competitivite de l'
economie, le ddveloppent humain durable et la bonne gouvernance, le Gouvemement a l'intention au cours
des prochaines annees d'accelerer la croissance, en creant pour le secteur prive un environnement plus
propice A ses activites, en mettant en oeuvre entre autres des programmes ambitieux A moyen et long termes
visant A mettre en valeur les ressources humaines. L'education et la formation qui sont des enjeux
importants dans tout processus de ddveloppement, constituent A cet dgard une priorite pour le
Gouvernement qui y consacre plus de 30% du budget de I ' Etat.
Mais malgre ces efforts soutenus de 1' Etat qui ont permis d'ameliorer de fa,on significative les
performances du systeme educatif, des insuffisances liees d'une part, A la faiblesse de l'acces A I'
education, du rendement et de l'efficacite inteme du systeme, et d'autre part A une organisation et une
gestion peu rationnelles, limitent serieusement le developpement du systeme educatif sen6galais.
C'est pourquoi la politique desormais mise en application dans le secteur est centree sur le
renforcement du systeme, en priorite, de l'Education de base, de 1'enseignement technique et de la
formation professionnelle. Un Programme Decennal de l'Education et de la Formation (PDEF) articule en
trois phases en sera l'instrument de realisation, et constituera le cadre de mise en coherence de 1'ensemble
des activit6s developpees dans le secteur .
Cette politique repose sur les axes ci-apres:
- elargissement de l'acces A l'education et A la formation en matiere de competence utiles A la vie;
- consolidation des capacites a dispenser une education pertinente et de qualite A tous les niveaux;
- creation des conditions pour une coordination efficace des politiques et programmes d'dducation
- rationalisation de la mobilisation et de l'utilisation des ressources.
Dans ce cadre, la realisation de l'objectif d'une scolarisation universelle de qualit a l' horizon 2008
constitue la premiere priorite du Gouvernement.
I. - Principes pour le developpement de lI'ducation
1.1.   Liberalisation de l'offre eiducative: Le Gouvernement garantit le droit des organisations privees,
des individus, des communautes religieuses, des collectivites locales et de tout autre agent, qui ont des
ressources disponibles, de creer et de gerer des structures educatives selon leurs principes propres mais en
conformite avec les lois et reglements en vigueur. L'expansion de l'offre educative et la protection de la
- 132 -



liberte de choix des parents seront ainsi favorisees dans un contexte oii l'Etat intervient comme l'ultime
niveau qui structure les valeurs diverses dans un projet commun.
1.2.   Partenariat efficace et bien coordonne': Fort de ce principe de liberalisation et du souci renforce
de creer un environnement incitatif, le Gouvernement developpera un partenariat large, efficace et mieux
organise, de sorte que les ressources de toute nature disponibles chez les divers acteurs et partenaires
puissent etre investies sans entrave dans le secteur educatif.
1.3.   Decentralisation/diconcentration renforcee: La decentralisation et la deconcentration de la
gestion de l1'ducation sont incontournables dans le contexte avance de regionalisation, ob les collectivites
locales doivent assumer correctement le developpement de 1l6ducation A la base en vertu des pouvoirs qui
leurs sont transferes par la loi. Pour une meilleure prise en charge des besoins de la base, le Gouvernement
renforcera la devolution du pouvoir du centre vers le niveau local, autour des inspections et des ecoles, dans
une perpective d'autonomisation et de responsabilisation accrues.
1.4.   Education de qualite pour tous (egalite et e'quite): La realite du droit A I'Mlucation qui appelle
une democratisation effective du systeme, suppose que l'Etat garantisse une education de qualite pour tous.
Les mesures A prendre pour promouvoir l'egalite et l'quite impliquent une discrimination positive dans
l'allocation des ressources,
une attention particuliere aux questions liees au genre ou aux handicaps de toute nature, ainsi qu'une
diversification des curricula en fonction des besoins et des possibilites des individus.
1.5. Atteinte par tous des nornes de perfornance les plus 61evies (qualite): La qualite resulte de la
maximisation des efforts de tous les intervenants directs et d'une bonne coordination de l'action de toutes
les structures pour promouvoir A tous les niveaux une ecole d'excellence. Ii s'agit, dans le cadre des projets
d'ecole et d'6tablissement, et sur la base d'une recherche-action efficace sur les facteurs de qualite, de
promouvoir une ecole performante oui tous les apprenants sont aides A reussir et a aller aussi loin que
possible dans les apprentissages. En vue d'ameliorer le processus d'enseignement-apprentissage, une
attention particuli&re sera accordee A la mise en place d'un curriculum pertinent, d'un bon dispositif
d'evaluation et de remediation, au renforcement des competences des enseignants, A l'environnement de
l'ecole.
1.6.    Gestion transparente et efficace (responsabilite): Parallelement a la responsabilisation des
differents niveaux hierarchiques, notamment des ecoles et des etablissements, l'obligation de resultats ainsi
que la gestion transparente et efficace des ressources allouees au systeme seront erigees en principe de
travail. L'impact reel de la gestion des actions educatives sera mesure A travers la vie des apprenants, des
familles et de la communaut6 au sens large.
II. Politiques et strategies de developpement de l'education
2.1. Organigramme du systeme educatif
Dans le cadre d'un organigramme recentre, les unites fondamentales autour desquelles le systeme
sera bati sont les etablissements prescolaires, les ecoles fondamentales (regroupement de l'elementaire et du
moyen), les lycees, les centres de formation professionnelle, les Centres Universitaires Regionaux (CUR),
les universites et les etablissements du superieur.
2.2. Developpement de la petite enfance
- 133-



Dans le cade d'une politique de developpement de la petite enfance, le Gouvernement vise A
promouvoir 1'6ducation prescolaire qui a une fonction structurante dans le processus d'emergence de la
personnalite et de l'6veil des virtualites profondes de 1'enfant. Le type d'6ducation dispensee a ce niveau
prepare globalement l'enfant aux apprentissages ulterieurs contribuant ainsi A la reduction des taux d'
echecs scolaires qui se traduisent par des redoublements et des abandons.
Ainsi, pour assurer le developpement rapide de ce sous secteur, il s'agira : i) de relever le taux de
pre- scolarisation de 3 % en 1998 A environ 25 % en 2008, en accueillant environ 425 000 enfants de 3 A 5
ans en 2008 ; ii) de promouvoir parallelement au developpement du prive et du prescolaire public, un
modele d'education prescolaire de type communautaire, moins onereux et adapte aux realites socio-
culturelles du pays.
L'atteinte de ces objectifs passera par:
- la diversification, dans le cadre d'une recherche- action, des structures d'accueil de la petite
enfance, avec des programmes integres et adaptes.
- 1'implication des collectivites locales, des ONG, des individus, des communautes et des familles
qui assureront dans une large mesure le fmancement de 1'&ducation prescolaire;
- une formation de qualite des personnels, un suivi et une supervision efficaces du fonctionnement
des structures prescolaires.
2.3. Cycle fondamental
2.3.1 Le Gouvernement reaffirme le caractere prioritaire du developpement de ireducation de base, dont
l'objectif ultime est de doter chaque enfant d'un substrat moral, civique, intellectuel et pratique solide pour
servir de base A une vie accomplie. Aussi, doit-elle assurer la livraison d'un programme global et integre qui
devrait promouvoir le developpement integral et harmonieux de l'enfant, le preparer A la vie adulte et
constituer une bonne base pour l'acces au cycle secondaire et pour d'autres programmes a l'intention des
adultes
L'objectif du Gouvernement est de permettre A chaque enfant de b6neficier d'une education de base
de qualite de 10 ans.
a)      Dans ce cadre, la priorite immediate est de realiser la scolarisation universelle de 06
annees (95 % de TBS) en 2008 en deux phases: i) admission au CI de tous les enfants de 7-8 ans entre
1999 et 2004; ii) maintien des acquis et mise en place d'un systeme interne de promotions quasi
automatiques entre 2004 et 2008.
A cet effet, les strategies retenues sont les suivantes : construction et maintenance de 2000 salles de
classes par an ; mise en oeuvre des classes A double flux dans les zones A forte pression d6mographique, et
recours systematique aux classes multigrades en milieu rural, notamment pour completer les cycles des
petites ecoles; recrutement d'enseignants contractuels (2000 maitres par an) et redeploiement des maitres
occupes A d'autres taches, allegement des procedures et des coats de construction.
b)     L'annee cible pour la realisation d'une education de base de qualite de 10 ans pour tous est
2017. A cet effet, il s'agira :i) d'accueillir en 2007 au moins 50 % des sortants des ecoles fondamentales de
base dans les ecoles fondamentales superieures pour un enseignement de quatre annees ii) de developper les
capacites d'accueil des ecoles fondamentales superieures entre 1999 et 2008 iii) et de completer, entre 2008
et 2017, les cycles des ecoles fondamentales de base afin qu'elles puissent assurer la scolarite de 10 ans.
Les mesures preconisees pour y arriver sont: mise A contribution des collectivites locales,
notamment dans la construction, la rehabilitation et la maintenance des infrastructures scolaires; appui
technique aux C L E dans l'elaboration de la carte scolaire; transformation d'ecoles fondamentales de
base en ecoles fondamentales superieures, et implantation de << petits colleges ruraux >>; mise en place d'un
-134 -



environnement favorable propice au developpement des ecoles privees.
C)     Des modeles alternatifs provisoires d'education pour accueillir les enfants ages de 09 a 14
ans exclus du systeme formel seront mis en oeuvre. Dans ce cadre les modeles d'ecoles communautaires de
base en experimentation qui sont bases sur la sous traitance avec des operateurs de la societe civile, seront
stabilises afin de constituer a la fois une modalite d'elargissement de l'offre d'education a cette tranche d'
age de la population et un espace d'essai d'initiatives qualitatives. Dans ce cadre, I'articulation entre le
curriculum des ecoles formelles et ceux appliques dans les ecoles communautaires facilitera la transition
vers les niveaux post- elementaires.
2.3.2  Amneliorer la qualite et l'efficacite de lI'ducation
Une grande priorite sera accordee a l'amelioration de la qualite du service educatif de base.
A cet effet, les objectifs poursuivis sont: i) promouvoir un curriculum largement partage, global, integre,
diversifie, flexible et adapte aux besoins reels, a la fois, de l'enfant et de la societe, reviser le curriculum
des quatre annees du cycle fondamental superieur, en mettant l'accent sur le caractere pratique et
pre-professionnel de toutes les disciplines ; ii) ameliorer sensiblement les conditions d'enseignement et
d'apprentissage dans les ecoles, ainsi que l'efficacite pedagogique des enseignants.
Dans ce cadre, la strategie suivante sera appliquee:
- developpement des curricula, avec priorite accordee au langage, aux mathematiques et aux disciplines
pratiques pour favoriser 1P6mergence d'une culture de l'entreprise et du travail chez les apprenants;
- promotion de la pratique de la pedagogie active dans les 6coles; encadrement rapproche des enseignants et
l'institutionnalisation des programmes speciaux de formation continu&e des maitres, des directeurs et des
inspecteurs;
- gratuite et disponibilite effectives des manuels scolaires de base, avec une politique editoriale basee sur la
contractualisation avec le secteur prive, et mise en place d'un reseau fonctionnel de distribution;
Implication des comites de gestion des ecoles dans la maintenance des manuels scolaires;
- r6alisation d'un temps d'apprentissage minimum de 30 heures par semaine (soit 900 heures par an) dans
le cycle fondamental de base;
- mise en place d'un systeme efficace d'evaluation des apprentissages et de restitution des resultats au
niveau local, et renforcement des services d'orientation ainsi que de conseil dans les ecoles fondamentales;
- introduction des langues nationales pour faciliter l'alphabetisation initiale des enfants dans les petites
classes et en tant que discipline d'enracinement culturel, mais aussi dans la perpective d'en faire des
langues d'enseignement.
- institution dans les ecoles fondamentales superieures du choix obligatoire d'une discipline technique ou
pratique, d'une discipline scientifique ou technologique par tous les eleves, afin de faciliter leur insertion
dans la vie et dans le monde du travail;
- responsabilisation accrue des etablissements scolaires dans le cadre des projets d'ecoles qui seront
institutionnalises et generalises.
2.4. Enseignement secondaire
L'objectif de l'enseignement secondaire est de renforcer le niveau d'education des enfants pour qu'
ils puissent continuer des etudes superieures ou recevoir une formation professionnelle de cadre moyen. Le
sous-secteur sera reform6 pour lui permettre d'assumer correctement cette mission. Dans cette perspective,
il s'agira:
- d'elargir l'acces A 1'enseignement secondaire A au moins 50% des sortants de l1'cole fondamentale d'ici
l'an 2008 tout en diversifiant les structures d'accueil;
- d'ameliorer la qualite de l'offre d'enseignement secondaire, en mettant l'accent sur le developpement de 1'
- 135 -



enseignement des sciences et des mathematiques, et sur la diversification du curriculum de lenseignement
secondaire, dans un sens global et large, offrant des programmes varies et specifiques.
L'atteinte de ces objectifs passe par la mise en ouvre des mesures ci-apres:
- extension de la carte scolaire regionale pour absorber les sortants de l'ecole fondamentale, et maintien du
recrutement d'enseignants contractuels.
- promotion de l1'ducation a l'entreprenariat, renforcement de la maitrise des competences scientifiques,
mathematiques et pratiques, developpement des sciences informatiques et de l'education morale et civique
dans les lycees;
- augmentation du temps d'apprentissage et des ressources consacres a l'enseignement des sciences et des
mathematiques dans tous les lycees d'enseignement general;
- specialisation de certains lycees en sciences, en technologie ou dans des branches professionnelles (
agricole, industrielle, en affaires et etudes commerciales, en art et artisanat, enfin en sport ).
- creation, dans chaque region, au moins d'un lycee professionnel, d'un lycee scientifique et d'un lyc6e
technique;
developpement d'un curriculum pertinent et efficace pour chaque type de lycee.
- mise en place d'un systeme efficace d'evaluation des apprentissages;
- recrutement de professeurs contractuels et renforcement des competences professionnelles du personnel
enseignant;
- mise en aeuvre de projets d' etablissement dans tous les lycees dans une perspective d' autonomisation et
responsabilisation accrue.
2.4    Enseignement superieur
Ce sous-secteur est appele a jouer un r6le moteur dans le developpement decennal de lI'ducation
par la mise en ceuvre de ses trois vocations particulieres: 1'enseignement superieur, la recherche et le
service a la communaute.
Il comprend les universit6s publiques et privees, les ecoles professionnelles superieures et les
Centres Universitaires Regionaux ( CUR ). L' Etat veillera a la coordination ainsi qu'a l'harmonisation de
la politique en matiere d'enseignement superieur, et creera les conditions d'une contractualisation entre I'
Etat, les entreprises et les universites. Le concept d'autonomie sera approfondi dans le sens d'une plus
grande responsabilisation des universites et ecoles superieures, et de leur dependance excessive par
rapport aux ressources budgetaires. Elles auront plus d'autonomie dans la mobilisation et la gestion des
ressources budgetaires.
Les universites publiques et privees doivent developper un enseignement et des programmes d'une
qualite mondialement reconnue, ainsi qu'un systeme de gestion rationnel et transparent mettant plus P'
accent sur les dimensions pedagogiques.
Les centres universitaires regionaux qui seront progressivement installes, d'une part, assureront les
enseignements du premier cycle universitaire, et d'autre part, prepareront au Dipl6me de Technicien
Superieur ( DTS) Les ecoles professionnelles superieures continueront a assumer leur fonctions
traditionnelles, tout en s'adaptant mieux aux marche de l'emploi. Celles qui existent dans les regions seront
integrees pour constituer le noyau des Centres Universitaires Regionaux.
Ces options seront r6alisees a partir des mesures ci-dessous:
-      I'appui du Gouvernement au developpement des universites ou etablissements d'enseignement
superieur priv6s.
-      developpement d'une charte de partenariat visant a mieux installer une approche de service apte a
- 136 -



assurer une autonomie financiere a l'enseignement superieur, dans le cadre d'une demarche participative
incluant le gouvernement, le secteur prive et les universites et etablissements du superieur.
-      appui du Gouvernement essentiellement axe sur les actions orientees vers la qualite pedagogique et
la rationalisation de la gestion des ressources.
2.6. Education des adultes analphabetes
Dans la perspective d'une education pour tous qui exige un elargissement de l'offre educative, les
objectifs poursuivis par le Gouvernement A l'intention des adultes analphabetes sont les suivants: i)
consolider les acquis et eradiquer totalement l'analphabetisme des adultes, en priorite chez les femmes
rurales Agees de 15 A 49 ans, pour renforcer leurs capacites A contribuer au developpement; ii)
developper les capacites de planification et de gestion du sous-secteur dans le cadre d'un partenariat
renforce avec les autres ministeres et les differents operateurs, pour faciliter l'integration de
l'alphabetisation dans les divers projets de developpement; iii) stabiliser un programme national d'
alphabetisation destine A assurer une education de base de qualite.
II s'agira globalement de maintenir le taux de reduction de l'analphabetisme de 5 points par an.
La strategie A mettre en oeuvre repose sur les elements suivants:
-      renforcement du transfert de competences aux collectivites locales pour le developpement de
l'alphabetisation,
-      integration de l'alphabetisation fonctionnelle et de la post-alphabetisation dans le cadre d'un
programme global unifie;
-      mise en muvre d'une procedure commune fondee sur un manuel de procedures commun A tous les
acteurs et partenaires;
-      participation multiforme des populations A la realisation des actions d'alphabetisation;
-      sous-traitance ("faire-faire") des programmes d'alphab6tisation avec des operateurs prives ou des
ONG experimentes.
2.7. Formation professionnelle
Le developpement de ce sous-secteur constitue l'une des priorites du Gouvernement. Dans ce cadre il s'
agira essentiellement de mettre en place une politique favorable au developpement du secteur dans la
premiere phase du PDEF (2000-2003), et d'accelerer son expansion, dans les deuxieme et troisieme phases
(2004-2010).
La strategie mise en oeuvre pour atteindre cet objectif est la suivante:
- developpement d'un partenariat efficace avec les entreprises, notamment avec les Petites et Moyennes
Entreprises ( PME ) homologuees A des tAches de formation et qui devront etre appuyees par l'Etat.
- mise en place d'un cadre de r6ference pour la s6lection et la contractualisation de la formation
professionnelle par alternance avec les PME, et creation d'espaces ainsi que de mecanismes de
renforcement de la liaison formation/emploi;
- restructuration du sous-secteur, en rapport avec le Ministere charge de l'Emploi, pour mieux l'adapter au
marche du travail.
- implication des collectivit6s locales, du patronat, des syndicats ainsi que des partenaires au
developpement dans les efforts d'expansion de l'offre de formation.
- rationalisation de la carte de la formation professionnelle, tout en corrigeant les disparites regionales afin
d'absorber, dans les differentes filieres mises en place, environ 25 % des sortants de l'ecole fondamentale
- 137 -



en 2008 et 50 % en 2017 ;
- renforcement de l'autonomie juridique et financiere des centres de formation professionnelle, qui auront
un statut de prestataires de services, dans le cadre d'une gestion tripartite (Etat - Employeurs -
Travailleurs) ou l'Etat joue davantage un r6le de regulation-conseil, tout en continuant A fournir des
services de formation.
- rentabilisation des structures existantes et valorisation de I'apprentissage;
- integration dans les curricula, des dimensions auto-emploi et emploi non salarie;
2.8. Questions specifiques
2.8.1- Education desfilles, des enfants handicapes, pauvres et/ou vulnerables
Le Gouvernement prendra toutes les mesures utiles pour faire de l1'galit6 des chances et de l'equit6
une realite dans le systeme educatif, notamment en ce qui concerne l1'ducation des filles, des enfants
handicapes et des enfants issus de groupes pauvres ou vulnerables.
Dans ce cadre, il envisage d'ameliorer l'acces, le maintien et la reussite des filles A l'ecole; de promouvoir
un education speciale integratrice de qualite A travers tout le pays; et de developper une discrimination
positive en matiere d'offre educative et de distribution de ressources au profit des enfants issus des familles
pauvres et/ou vulnerables
Les mesures suivantes permettront de concretiser ces options:
- elaboration et mise en ceuvre par les Conseils Locaux d'Education de plans d'actions centres sur l'egalit6
des chances d'acces et de participation entre filles et gar,ons dans toutes leurs ecoles, sur la prise en charge
correcte
des besoins speciaux des enfants handicapes, et sur des soutiens specifiques en materiel didactique en
faveur des eleves issus de milieux pauvres et/ou vulnerables;
- meilleure prise en compte des problemes specifiques au genre dans les curricula, dans la formation
initiale et continuee des enseignants, et dans les programmes de conseil et d'orientation du MEN;
- renforcement de la scolarisation des filles par des mesures specifiques telles que la mobilisation sociale,
I'affectation des femmes A des postes de responsabilite, la creation de cantines ou centre d'accueil au niveau
du secondaire, la sensibilisation des parents ainsi que des communautes sur les questions de genre et
developpement
- identification des groupes vulnerables, evaluation de leurs besoins et definition d'une strategie
appropriee de prise en charge, en collaboration avec tous les ministeres concern6s, les collectivites locales,
les ONG et communautes religieuses; mise en place d'un dispositif de sensibilisation et de depistage
precoce des cas de handicaps, et de services speciaux pour les enfants dont les handicaps ne permettent pas
une presence normale dans les ecoles;
- formation des enseignants et des inspecteurs en education speciale, et developpement de curricula adaptes,
d'un materiel didactique et un dispositif d'appui technologique appropries;
- mise en place, en collaboration avec les partenaires, d'un systeme d'allocation de bourses et d'aides base
sur des criteres de discrimination positive, destine aux filles performantes en mathematiques, sciences et
technologie, aux enfants pauvres et vulnerables, notamment les orphelins et les enfants du monde rural.
2. 8.2- Education ta la sante, a l'environnement, ta la vie familiale et en matiere depopulation
Le Gouvemement demeure convaincu que l'education A la sante, A l'environnement, A la vie
- 138-



familiale et en matibre de population constitue une garantie essentielle pour l'avenement d'un
developpement humain durable.
Le MEN travaillera etroitement avec les Ministeres charges de la Sante et de l'Environnement ainsi
qu'avec les autres partenaires, pour assurer la promotion de la sante des eleves ( et A travers eux, celle de
leurs communautes d'origine et de leurs futures familles ), ainsi que le developpement de leur
environnement global et immediat.
A cet effet, le Gouvernement prendra les mesures suivantes: determination des normes en matiere
de sante et d'environnement dans les ecoles et Iycees ; mise en place d'un paquet de services de deparasitage
; developpement des infirmeries d'&coles gerees par des relais communautaires formes A cet effet ; reforme
des inspections medicales scolaires pour centrer leurs actions sur l'education A la sante notamment en
matiere de SIDA d'hygiene et de sante reproductive; sensibilisation et implication des parents;
assainissement regulier et desinfection p6riodique des etablissements ; rdintroduction des consultations
annuelles dans les ecoles ; formation des enseignants A des tests simples de detection de troubles auditifs et
visuels; integration definitive des programmes transversaux lids A ces questions dans les curricula de
l'ecole de base, assurant ainsi leur generalisation et leur perennisation.
2.8.2- Enseignement de la langue arabe
En raison de l'importance de la langue arabe dans 1'environnement culturel des populations
senegalaises, le Gouvernement reaffirme sa volonte de promouvoir son enseignement.
En tant que facteur d'accroissement de la demande d'education, le developpement des ecoles
franco-arabes sera assure A partir d'une experimentation bien contr6lee, notamment au niveau de
ltducation de base et dans les zones ou l'expansion de l'ecole classique rencontre des resistances. Dans le
dispositif A mettre en place, au moins 40% du temps d'apprentissage sera consacre a la langue fran,aise.
Les mesures appropriees seront prises pour recruter des enseignants bilingues (francais-arabe) et
aligner leur temps de travail hebdomadaire sur celui des enseignants en langue fran,aise.
2.8.4 - Les Technologies de l'Information et de la Communication (TIC)
Soucieux de coller A la dynamique de developpement des TIC, le Gouvernement reaffirme ses
options relatives A leur utilisation en tant que facteur d'amelioration de la qualite de
lenseignement-apprentissage dans les ecoles, de renforcement des capacites institutionnelles du MEN A
travers les possibilites de communication interne et exteme A des prix raisonnables.
A cet effet, le Gouvernement procedera a la creation de centres informatiques dans certains
etablissements, en mettant l'accent dans un premier temps sur les ecoles fondamentales superieurs et les
lycees ; au renforcement de ltquipement des services centraux et decentralises du MEN en materiel
informatique, A la formation des enseignants ainsi que des personnels des services centraux et decentralises
du MEN, A la determination des conditions de prise en charge acceptable des couts dans le cadre de 1'
informatisation.
2.8.5. Le recrutement et la formation des enseignants
L'objectif du Gouvernement est de pourvoir correctement le systeme educatif en personnels
enseignants qualifies, pour atteindre les objectifs quantitatifs et qualitatifs poursuivis dans le cadre du
PDEF. Tout en maintenant les acquis des enseignants fonctionnaires, des options variees de
contractualisation seront privilegides pour le recrutement des personnels des ecoles fondamentales et des
Iycees,.
Dans ce cadre, pour des raisons d'equite, de coherence et d'efficacite, le Gouvernement reformera
- 139-



le systeme de formation ainsi que le mode de recrutement des enseignants en fonction des objectifs du
PDEF. L'uniformisation de la formation initiale et continuee des enseignants concernes, 1'engagement
massif de personnels contractuels et la decentralisation de la gestion de ce personnel seront les grands axes
de cette reforme.
Les strategies a mettre en couvre a cet effet se rdsument comme suit:
v      Les enseignants des ecoles fondamentales et des lycees seront recrutes parmi les sortants des
Ecoles de formation des instituteurs (EFI) et de 1' Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS), comme Volontaires ou
vacataires de l'Education a l'entree. Apres quatre annres de volontariat ou de vacation, ils deviennent des
instituteurs ou des professeurs contractuels, dotes de plans de carriere permettant d'ameliorer leur statut de
depart, avec la possibilite d'acceder a la fonction publique par voie de concours selon des quotas a fixer
chaque annee.
v      La selection des Volontaires de l'Education et des Vacataires sera organisee annuellement par les
IA dans le cadre d'un concours regional base sur les quotas attribues, en fonction des besoins identifies,
aux IDEN et aux IA par arret du MEN. Le MEN publiera un nouveau texte portant organisant les
concours regionaux de recrutement des Volontaires et des vacataires de l'education.
v      Les Volontaires selectionnes dans les 10 regions du pays et destines aux ecoles fondamentales de
base, seront formes exclusivement dans les EFI, sur la base d'un referentiel de competences bien stabilise et
d'un dispositif pedagogique ameliore. Les quatre EFI existantes seront restructurees A cet effet, afin qu'
elles puissent assurer chaque annee une formation pedagogique pour deux cohortes de 1000 Volontaires
chacune. La duree de formation des Volontaires, revue A la hausse, passera de trois A cinq mois.
v      Les vacataires selectionnes au niveau des regions, et destines aux dcoles fondamentales superieures
et aux lycees, subiront une formation pedagogique d'un an A l'Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS) dans le
cadre d'un dispositif pedagogique renforce.
v      Les s6jour payant seront maintenus pour les auditeurs libres ou envoyes par des organismes prives,
des collectivites locales ou des ONG dans les EFI ou A I'ENS. Le dispositif d'intervention de ces ecoles de
formation integrera la strategie de la formation A distance.
v      Les IDEN auront la responsabilite de la gestion des personnels contractuels ou fonctionnaires mis A
leur disposition pour servir dans les ecoles fondamentales ; les IA assureront la gestion des personnels
contractuels ou fonctionnaires des lycees.
v      Les capacites institutionnelles des EFI, de l'ENS et des PRF seront renforcees pour leur permettre
d'assurer efficacement la formation initiale et continuee des personnels des ecoles fondamentales et des
lycees.
v      Le gouvemement mettra en ieuvre un dispositif de formation continuee ameliore, fonde sur un
referentiel pertinent, efficace, et differencie selon les niveaux d'enseignement. L'optique sera de completer
et de renforcer la formation initiale, et de tenir les sessions prioritairement dans les ecoles pour repondre
aux besoins en formation liees aux problemes pedagogiques concrets rencontres par les enseignants ou A la
mise en oeuvre des innovations. Les P6les Regionaux de Formation continuee (PRF) joueront un r6le
central en collaboration avec les EFI et l'ENS.
v      Un plan d'action sera mis en ceuvre en vue de l'affectation a des postes d'enseignement, du
- 140 -



personnel enseignant detache A des taches administratives, et de la reduction du taux de suppl6ance de son
niveau actuel de 10,8% A 5%.
v      En raison de la necessite de professionnaliser davantage le corps enseignant, le gouvernement
e1aborera un code de deontologie fixant les normes et standards d'un bon exercice de la fonction. II
renforcera la communication et la concertation avec les partenaires sociaux en vue de l'amelioration des
conditions morales et materielles des enseignants.
2.9.   Financement de I'education
Le Programme Decennal de l'Education et de la Formation (PDEF) qui doit sous-tendre les
performances economiques, techniques et sociales, bdneficiera de l'appui de l'Etat, des collectivites locales,
des communautes, du secteur prive ainsi que des partenaires au developpement. Les ressources budgetaires
qui seront affectees au Ministere de l'Education Nationale devront permettre d'atteindre en priorite 1'
objectif d'une scolarisation universelle de qualitd en 2008, a partir du cadrage budgetaire du modele de
simulation financiere dont les hypotheses decoulent de la Revue des Depenses Publiques.
- atteindre un taux de croissance annuel moyen en volume du PIB d'au moins 5%, et un taux de croissance
annuel moyen en volume du budget de I'Etat de 2,5%;
- maintenir la part du budget de l'Etat alloue A l'Education A 33% au moinsjusqu'en 2008;
- accroitre progressivement la part des budgets des collectivites locales allou6e A l'Education de 1% en 1998
a 10% en 2008 afin de mieux faire face aux charges recurrentes et aux depenses d'investissement;
- sensibiliser davantage les partenaires au developpement, les ONG, au fmancement du systeme educatif;
- mobiliser les communautes et le prive pour une contribution accrue aux depenses d'education et de
maniere plus substantielle pour les niveaux post-el6mentaires;
- grer de mani&re rationnelle les ressources allouees au systeme educatif.
Le financement du developpement de la petite enfance sera essentiellement assure par les
collectivites locales, les communautes, les ONG, la societe civile et les promoteurs prives. L'Etat y
contribuera dans la limite de ses moyens.
L'ecole fondamentale de base est gratuite et reste la premiere priorit6 du Gouvernement. Les
depenses recurrentes seront reequilibrees entre les ordres d'enseignement en donnant la priorite A ce
sous-secteur. II s'agira d'accroitre progressivement la part des depenses d'education el6mentaire dans le
budget de fonctionnement dans un premier temps a 44% en 2003 puis A environ 50% en 2008. La gratuite
des manuels scolaires sera garantie au moins dans ce sous-secteur, dans le cadre d'une politique editoriale
basee sur la contractualisation avec le secteur prive .
Le developpement de l'ecole fondamentale superieure sera finance par l'Etat, les collectivites
locales et les promoteurs prives pour preparer les conditions d'une scolarisation universelle de 10
ans.
Le financement de l'enseignement secondaire sera assure dans une large mesure par l'Etat.
Toutefois, la participation inevitable des beneficiaires sera discutee et codifiee dans une charte de
recouvrement des cofits . L'implication des prives et des ONG dans l'expansion du sous-secteur et 1'
amelioration de sa qualite sera fortement encouragee. Dans ce cadre il s'agit i) de realiser les
infrastructures necessaires sur une base partenariale entre l'Etat, les collectivites locales, les communautes,
les ONG et le secteur prive; ii) de fixer, au niveau des Conseils Locaux d'Education, les frais d'inscription A
payer dans chaque lycee, et maintenir un systeme d'appui au profit des enfants pauvres et des groupes
- 141 -



vulnerables.
Le gouvernement introduira un systeme de recouvrement des couts pour les niveaux autres que 1'
elementaire: ecole fondamentale superieure, enseignement secondaire general et technique, formation
professionnelle, enseignement supdrieur. Une charte fixant les montants appropries pour chaque niveau,
organisant la gestion decentralisee des fonds recueillis par les etablissements ainsi que les categories de
depenses eligibles sera finalisee au plus tard dans le courant de l'annee 2000 en vue d'une application A
partir de la rentree 2000/200 1. Les montants estimes dans le modele de simulation du PDEF serviront de
base A ce travail.
Le gouvernement mettra en place un fonds de developpement de l'enseignement technique et de la
formation professionnelle. Les ressources budgetaires et extra budgetaires allouees au sous-secteur seront
augmentees sur la base des orientations A definir dans la premiere phase du PDEF.
Le financement de l'enseignement supdrieur sera partage entre l'Etat, les etudiants et les institutions
universitaires qui devront tendre vers une relative autonomie sur le plan financier. Dans la limite de ses
possibilit6s, I'Etat maintiendra sa politique d'assistance aux cibles vulnerables et de promotion de I'
excellence. Dans ce cadre, l'Etat prend en charge selon ses moyens les couts lies aux salaires, au
renforcement du personnel, aux programmes de developpement et A la recherche. Les etudiants payeront
des frais d'inscription dont les montants seront decides par leurs conseils d'administration. Les institutions
universitaires assureront une bonne partie de leurs charges de fonctionnement a partir des contributions des
etudiants et des activites generatrices de revenus qu'elles developperont.
Une etude sera menee sur les formes A donner A l'appui public A l'enseignement superieur. Cet appui
d6pendra de la realisation de certains services definis dans le cadre de cahiers de charges ou de contrats
annuels;
Les universites publiques seront soumises A l'obligation de fournir regulierement au Gouvernement,
leurs politiques et plans strategiques, leurs resultats, des rapports financiers et d'audit de qualite.
L'Etat appuiera sous forme d'aides ou de bourses les etudiants meritants issus de familles pauvres,
les jeunes filles et les handicapes.
Le financement de l'alphabetisation sera assure principalement par les collectivites locales, les
ONG et autres partenaires au developpement, les entreprises, les communautes, les families et les
individus A titre prive, selon des procedures A uniformiser d'ici l'an 2002.
L'enseignement prive: Pour le Gouvernement, les declarants responsables d'ecoles privees sont des
partenaires privilegies dans l'offre d'education. Il creera les conditions favorables pour renforcer leur
participation au developpement de l'education.
Pour cela, il s'agira de reviser la iegislation en matiere d'enseignement prive, de faciliter l'acces des
promoteurs prives A des terrains, A des prets concessionnels, A des fonds publics ou provenant des
bailleurs de fonds, A des formations.
2.10. Organisation et gestion de I'Mducation
Le developpement du secteur repose d'une part sur une approche programme et d'autre part sur la
planification decentralisee, la mise en oeuvre ainsi que l'evaluation de plans departementaux et regionaux
de developpement de 1'education ( PDDE et PRDE ), dans le cadre d'un partenariat regroupant les
collectivites locales, les autorites scolaires deconcentrees et la societe civile. Le Gouvernement veillera A la
formation et A l'encadrement des structures decentralisees de planification.
Dans ce nouveau contexte, le Gouvemnement garantit l'application des dispositions de la Loi d'Orientation
- 142 -



N 91-22 du 16 Fevrier 1991 , et la mise en place d'un systeme d'education et de formation pertinent et
efficace. II garantira les normes et recherchera activement une participation pleine et juste des divers
acteurs, le concours de linitiative privee, individuelle et collective.
Un dispositif de pilotage participatif de l'approche programme sera mis en place. II sera assure par
un Conseil Sup6rieur de l'Education et de la Formation (CONSEF) Nationale charge de l'orientation, I'
impulsion et la validation des plans d'operation, preside par le Ministre de l'Education et des comites de
coordination et de Suivi mis en place aux niveaux national, regional et departemental. Ce dispositif
permettra d'assurer une meilleure coordination des contributions des bailleurs de fonds.
Les collectivites locales disposent de par la loi, d'importantes competences en matieres d'
education. Elles sont responsables du developpement de l'education et de la formation dans leur espace de
gestion et de l'entretien des infrastructures scolaires. Ils doivent, A cet effet, promouvoir un partenariat
large et efficace A la base.
En rapport avec les autorites deconcentrees, elles seront chargees de developper l'education A la base, dans
le cadre de l'elaboration, la mise en oeuvre et l'evaluation des PRDE et des PDDE, de la mobilisation des
partenaires et des ressources, et de l'adaptation des nouveaux curricula aux contexte locale.
A cet effet, le Gouvernement procedera a l'installation de Conseils Locaux d'Education, composes des
elus locaux, des membres de la societe civile, des autorites scolaires et des parents d'eleves. Ce cadre
constituera un espace de concertation, d'orientation et de regulation, des projets et plans d'6ducation au
niveau des ecoles, des communautes rurales , des communes, des departements et des regions.
Le cadre reglementaire des CLE sera defini selon une d6marche participative, dans le cadre d'une etude A
conduire en l'an 2000.
Le Gouvernement mettra en ceuvre un dispositif de renforcement des capacites des regions, un
systeme efficace de contr6le de l'utilisation des ressources transferees, et un partenariat dynamique pour
une gestion participative de lIdducation A la base.
L'autonomie et la responsabilite des ecoles et etablissements scolaires ou de formation seront renforces
dans le cadre du developpement des projets d'ecole et d'etablissement, qui s'articulent aux PDDE et aux
PRDE.
Les services centraux du MEN, dans le cadre de ce systeme decentralisd et deconcentre,
conserveront leur mission de regulation et d'encadrement : formuler des politiques, etablir les textes
reglementaires, mobiliser les ressources, developper le curriculum national, fixer les normes et standards,
superviser l'entretien des batiments, suivre et evaluer le developpement du systeme, traiter et publier les
statistiques nationales.
Le Gouvernement publiera un nouveau decret portant reorganisation du MEN et mettra en place un
organigramme coherent et rationnel, en phase avec les options du PDEF.
II modernisera son dispositif de gestion et d'information, introduira l'obligation de resultats dans ses
principes de gestion et mettra en place un dispositif de nomination A des postes de responsabilit6 plus
selectif, avec des cahiers de charges precis.
II developpera une coordination efficace des actions d'education et de formation mises en oeuvre par
differents d6partements ministeriels, tout en les integrant dans un cadre politique unique. Un comite
interministeriel dote d'un secretariat sera cree a cet effet.
Le Gouvernement recourra A la delegation de maitrise d'ouvrages en general, notamment en matiere
de construction de classes et d'edition de manuels scolaires. A cet effet, une agence chargee des
constructions et de l'equipement scolaires sera mise en place au plus tard en octobre 2000.
Aux c6tes de I' Etat et des collectivites locales:
- les partenaires au developpement appuient les programmes de developpement du secteur dducatif,
I'amelioration des ressources humaines et le renforcement des capacites institutionnelles des structures
- 143 -



educatives.
- la societe civile (ONG, Syndicats, Associations de parents d'eleves, Associations f6minines, ASC)
contribue sous des formes variees, a la conception, a la realisation ainsi qu'a levaluation des politiques et
programmes de developpement de 1'lducation et de la formation a tous les niveaux du systeme.
Une pleine participation des communautes au developpement de I'education sera encouragee a tous
les niveaux. Dans ce cadre, le Gouvernement devra reviser la 1lgislation en vigueur, favoriser une attitude
de plus grande ouverture chez les enseignants et les autorit6s, appuyer les ONG et autres organismes
prenant en charge lI'ducation des filles, des enfants handicapes, pauvres ou vulnerables.
Le gouvernement prendra toutes les dispositions appropriees pour l'instauration d'un partenariat
dynamique entre les acteurs de maniere A garantir I'atteinte des objectifs poursuivis en commun.
Fait A Dakar le 14 Fevrier 2000
LE MINISTRE DE L'EDUCATION                             LE MINISTRE DE L'ECONOMIE, DES
NATIONALE                                                             FINANCES ET DU PLAN
ANDRE SONKO                          MOUHAMED EL MOUSTAPHA DIAGNE
- 144 -



MAP SECTION






International Development Association
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IDA/R2000-33/1 [PAD]
FROM: Vice President and Secretary                   March 28, 2000
SENEGAL: Quality Education for All Project
Project Appraisal Document
(Corrigendum - Annex 14 - English Translation)
Attached is the English version of Annex 14 to the Project Appraisal Document
(19610-SE) regarding a proposed Quality Education for All credit to the Republic of
Senegal (IDA/R2000-33 dated March 23, 2000). This project will be discussed at a
meeting of the Executive Directors to be held on Tuesday, April 11, 2000.
Questions on these documents should be referred to Ms. Thienta (ext. 34717).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC, and MIGA
The Staff Appraisal Report has a restricted distribution until the Executive Directors
approve the project. Following project approval, the document will be available upon
request to the public.



It



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
One people - One goal - One faith
GENERAL POLICY LETTER
FOR THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
FEBRUARY 2000



I



Introduction
Senegal's education policy for the next decade (1999-2008) is based on law 91-22 of February 16,
1991. The lessons from the development process to date have been learnt and account has been taken of
the transformations which have occurred in the internal and external environment of the education system,
so that education can respond to the various challenges to be met if Senegal is to emerge in the industrial,
technological and democratic spheres and its young people are to be equipped for the coming millennium,
characterized already by the growing phenomenon of globalization.
The Government is mindful of the options of the Ninth Plan, which are geared to the creation of a
viable macroeconomic framework stressing continuous improvement of the competitiveness of the
economy, sustained human development and good governance. Accordingly, it intends over the next few
years to accelerate growth, by creating an environment more conducive to private sector activities through
ambitious medium-term and long-term programs to upgrade human resources. Education and training, so
important in any development process, are thus a priority for the Government, which allocates to them
over 30 percent of the State budget.
However, despite these ongoing efforts by the State, which have significantly improved the
performance of the Senegalese education system, the development of this system is seriously hampered,
on the one hand, by the inaccessibility of education, low productivity and internal inefficiency of the
system and, on the other hand, by poor organization and management.
For this reason, current policy in this sector is to give priority to strengthening basic education,
technical education and vocational training. This goal will be achieved through a Programme D6cennal
de l'Education et de la Formation (PDEF), divided into three phases, which will be the umbrella for all
activities undertaken in this sector.
This policy comprises the following aspects:
- expanded access to education and to training in life skills;
- consolidated capacity to provide relevant and quality education at all levels;
- creation of conditions for the effective coordination of education policies and programs;
- rationalized resource mobilization and utilization.
In this connection, the Government's top priority is quality universal education by 2008.
I. Principles for the development of education
1.1.    Liberalization of the delivery of education: The Government recognizes the right of private
organizations, individuals, religious groups, local communities and any other agent possessing available
resources to create and manage education facilities according to their own principles but in accordance
with the laws and regulations in force. The expansion of education services and the protection of parents'
freedom of choice will thus be encouraged in a context in which the State intervenes as the last level
structuring the diverse values into a common project.
1.2.    Efficient and well-coordinated partnership: Following this principle of liberalization and in a
desire to create a propitious environment, the Government will develop a broad, efficient and better
organized partnership, so that the resources of all kinds available to the various stakeholders and partners
can be invested without hindrance in the education sector.
2



1.3.    Greater decentralization/devolution: Decentralization and devolution of the management of
education are essential in the context of greater regionalization, in which local communities must correctly
organize the development of basic education in exercise of the powers transferred to them by law. In
order to ensure the enhanced satisfaction of basic needs, the Government will step up the devolution of
power from the center to the local level, as regards education authorities and schools, with a view to
enhancing empowerment and accountability.
1.4.    Quality education for all (equality and equity): The realization of the right to education
requires effective democratization of the system and means that the State must guarantee quality education
for all. The measures to be taken to promote equality and equity involve affirmative action in the
allocation of resources, special attention to gender issues and to disabilities of any kind, as well as
diversification of curricula to reflect the individuals' needs and abilities.
1.5.    Attainment of the highest standards of performance by all (quality): Quality is the result of
maximum efforts by all those directly involved and of proper coordination of the activities of all facilities
in order to promote a school of excellence at all levels.  The goal is, through school and institution
projects and on the basis of effective research-action on quality factors, to promote a successful school
where all students are helped to succeed and to advance as far as possible in the learning process.  In
order to improve the teaching and learning process, special attention will be given to the creation of a
relevant curriculum and of a good evaluation and correction mechanism, to upgrading of teachers' skills
and to improvement of the school environment.
1.6.    Transparent and efficient management (accountability): In addition to accountability of the
various levels in the hierarchy, particularly the schools and institutions, the obligation to achieve results
and the transparent and efficient management of resources will be made a guiding principle. The real
impact of the management of education activities will be measured in the life of the students, the families
and of the community in the broad sense.
HI.     Policies and strategies for the development of education
2.1.    Organigram of the education system
In the refocused organigram, the basic units around which the system will be constructed are the
pre-school institutions, the basic schools (combining elementary and middle school), the lycdes, the
vocational training centers, the Regional University Centers (CUR), the universities and the institutions of
higher education.
2.2.    Early childhood development
As part of its policy of early childhood development, the Government is endeavoring to promote
pre-school education, which plays a structuring role in the emergence of the child's personality and the
awakening of the child's inherent potential. The education provided at this level is a total preparation of
the child for subsequent learning and helps to reduce the failure rate, as reflected in repetitions and
dropouts.
3



Consequently, in order to ensure the rapid development of this subsector, the goal will be: (i) to
increase the percentage of children receiving pre-school education from 3 percent in 1998 to about 25
percent in 2008, reaching about 425,000 children between three and five years of age in 2008; (ii) in
conjunction with the development of private and public pre-schools, to promote a community-type model
of pre-school education, which is less costly and better suited to social and cultural conditions in Senegal.
These goals will be achieved by means of:
- diversification, in the context of research-action, facilities for young children, with integrated
and suitable programs;
- involvement of local collectivities, NGOs, individuals, communities and families who will
provide much of the financing for pre-school education;
- quality staff training, effective monitoring and supervision of the operation of pre-school
facilities.
2.3.    Basic cycle
2.3.1.  The Government reaffirms the priority given to the development of basic education, with the
ultimate aim of giving each child a solid moral, civic, intellectual and practical grounding as the basis for a
successful life. Consequently, a comprehensive and integrated program must be delivered which should
promote the overall and harmonious development of children, prepare them for adult life and provide a
good basis for access to the secondary cycle and for other adult education programs.
The Government's goal is to enable each child to receive a ten-year quality basic education.
(a)   In this situation, the immediate priority is to achieve universal six-year schooling (gross
enrollment rate of 95 percent) by 2008 in two phases: (i) admission to CI of all children seven and eight
years of age between 1999 and 2004; (ii) maintenance of the progress made and establishment of an
internal system of quasi-automatic promotions between 2004 and 2008.
For this purpose, the strategies adopted are the following: construction and maintenance of 2,000
classrooms a year; double shifting in heavily populated areas, and systematic use of multigrade classes in
rural areas, in particular to provide the full cycle of studies in small schools; recruitment of contract
teachers (2,000 a year) and redeployment of teachers used for other tasks; streamlining of construction
procedures and costs.
(b)    The target date for achieving ten-year quality basic education for all is 2017. In order to
achieve this target, it will be necessary: (i) by 2007 to enable at least half of the children leaving the basic
schools to move on to upper basic schools for four years of schooling; (ii) to expand the capacity of
upper basic schools between 1999 and 2008; and (iii) between 2008 and 2017 to enable lower basic
schools to provide the full ten years of schooling.
The measures advocated for achieving this are:  involvement of the local communities,
particularly in the construction, retrofitting and maintenance of school infrastructures, technical support to
the Local Education Council in school mapping; conversion of lower basic schools into higher basic
schools and creation of "small rural colleges"; creation of an environment conducive to the development
of private schools.
4



(c)    Alternative arrangements will be made on a temporary basis to educate children between
nine and fourteen years of age who are outside the formal system. In this connection, the experiment of
outsourcing basic community schools to civil society entities will be institutionalized so as to provide a
means of expanding the delivery of education to this age group and a forum for testing qualitative
innovations. In this connection, the dovetailing of the curricula in formal schools and those used in the
community schools will facilitate the transition to the post-elementary levels.
2.3.2.  Improvement of the quality and efficiency of education
High priority will be given to the improvement of basic education services.  The objectives
sought here are: (i) promotion of a broadly shared curriculum which will be global, integrated,
diversified, flexible and geared to the real needs of both children and society, revision of the curriculum
for the four years of the upper basic cycle, stressing the practical and pre-professional nature of all the
subjects taught; (ii) achievement of considerable improvements in teaching and learning conditions in
schools, as well as in the professional skills of teachers.
In this context, the following strategy will be adopted:
- curriculum development, with emphasis on language, mathematics and practical subjects to foster a
culture of enterprise and hard work among students;
- promotion of the practice of active pedagogy in schools; close supervision of teachers and creation of
special programs of in-service training for teachers, school directors and inspectors;
- ample provision of basic textbooks without charge, with a publishing policy based on contracts with the
private sector, and creation of a functional distribution network; involvement of school boards in the
maintenance of textbooks;
- provision of at least 30 hours a week (900 hours a year) of instruction in the lower basic cycle;
- creation of an efficient testing system and announcement of results at the local level, and strengthening
of guidance and counseling services in basic schools;
- introduction of the use of national languages to help children in the lower classes to learn reading and
writing and to anchor the teaching in the cultural context, as well as with a view to using them as
languages of instruction;
- obligatory study by all students at upper basic schools of a technical or practical subject, a scientific or
technological subject, so as to facilitate their insertion in life and in the world of work;
- greater accountability of school establishments through school projects to be institutionalized and applied
generally.
2.4.    Secondary education
The purpose of secondary education is to raise children's educational level so that they can go on
to higher education or receive intermediate-level vocational training. The subsector will be reformed to
enable it to perform this mission. Accordingly, measures will be taken to:
- expand access to secondary education to reach at least half of the children leaving basic schools by 2008,
while diversifying secondary facilities;
- improve the quality of secondary education, stressing science and mathematics and diversification of the
secondary school curriculum, in a global and broad sense, to offer varied and specific programs.
5



These objectives will be achieved by means of the following measures:
- expansion of the regional school network to absorb children leaving basic schools, and continuing
recruitment of contract teachers;
- promotion of education for entrepreneurial activities, greater emphasis on the acquisition of scientific,
mathematical and practical skills, development of computer studies and moral and civic education in
lycees;
- allocation of more time and resources to the teaching of science and mathematics in all general education
lycees;
- specialization of certain lycees in science, technology or professional studies (agriculture, industry,
business and commerce, art and handicrafts, sports);
- creation in each region of at least one professional lyc6e, one scientific lycee and one technical lycee;
development of a relevant and effective curriculum for each type of lycee;
- creation of an effective testing system;
- recruitment of contract teachers and upgrading of the professional skills of teaching staff;
- implementation of school projects in all lycees in order to achieve greater empowerment and
accountability.
2.5.    Higher education
This subsector will be required to play a leading role in the ten-year plan for the development of
education by virtue of its three specific facets: higher education, research and service to the community.
The subsector consists of the public and private universities, the higher vocational schools and
the Regional University Centers (CUR).  The State will be responsible for the coordination and
harmonization of higher education policy and will enter into contracts with enterprises and universities.
The concept of autonomy will be developed by giving greater responsibility to the universities and higher
schools and reducing their excessive dependence as regards budget resources.  They will have greater
autonomy to mobilize and manage budget resources.
The public and private universities must provide instruction and programs of internationally
recognized quality and must have a system of rational and transparent management with greater emphasis
on pedagogical aspects.
The regional university centers to be set up gradually will both provide education for the first
university cycle and prepare students for the Higher Technical Diploma (DTS). The higher vocational
schools will continue to perform their traditional functions but will be geared more closely to the labor
market. Those which exist in the regions will be combined to form the nucleus of the Regional University
Centers.
These options will be achieved through the following measures:
- Government support for the development of private universities or institutions of higher education;
- development of a partnership charter designed to foster a service approach which will ensure the
financial autonomy of higher education, within the framework of a participatory system including the
Government, the private sector and the universities and institutions of higher education;
- Government support focused on action to improve the quality of teaching and rationalize the
management of resources.
6



2.6.    Adult literacy campaigns
Within the context of education for all, which requires expanded education services, the goals
pursued by the Government as regards adult literacy are as follows: (i) to build on the progress made and
completely eradicate adult illiteracy, with special attention to rural women between fifteen and forty-nine
years of age, so as to enhance their. ability to contribute to development; (ii) to develop the planning and
management capacities of the subsector in the context of an enhanced partnership with the other ministries
and various entities, so as to facilitate the inclusion of literacy in the various development projects; (iii) to
stabilize a national literacy program designed to ensure quality basic education.
The overall target will be to maintain the illiteracy reduction rate at 5 percentage points a year.
The strategy to be implemented is based on the following elements:
- enhanced transfer of functions to the local communities for literacy work;
- integration of functional literacy and post-literacy within a unified global program;
- introduction of a common procedure based on a manual of procedures common to all stakeholders and
partners;
- multifarious participation by the population in the implementation of literacy canpaigns;
- outsourcing ("getting others to do it") of literacy programs to private entities or experienced NGOs.
2.7.    Vocational training
The development of this subsector is one of the priorities of the Government. It is concentrating
on instituting a policy favorable to the development of the subsector in the first phase of the PDEF (2000-
03) and accelerating its expansion in the second and third phases (2004-10).
The strategy is as follows:
- development of an effective partnership with enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized
enterprises (PMEs), which are authorized to provide training and which should receive State support;
- establishment of a frame of reference for the selection of vocational sandwich courses for outsourcing to
PMEs and creation of outlets and mechanisms to enhance the training/employment link;
- restructuring of the subsector, in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment, to make it better suited
to the labor market;
- involvement of local communities, employers, trade unions and development partners in the efforts to
expand training facilities;
- rationalization of the distribution of vocational training facilities, to correct regional disparities and
ensure that about 25 percent of students leaving basic school in 2008 and 50 percent of those leaving in
2017 will be absorbed in the various openings existing;
- greater legal and financial autonomy for the vocational training centers, which will have the status of
service providers, in the context of a tripartite management (State - Employers - Workers) in which the
State plays a bigger role as regulator and adviser, while continuing to provide training services;
- making the existing structures profitable and the training more valuable;
- incorporation in curricula of the concept of self-employment.
7



2.8.    Specific issues
2.8.1.  Education of girls and of disabled, poor and/or vulnerable children
The Government will do everything necessary to make equal opportunity and equity a reality in
the education system, particularly as regards the education of girls, disabled children and children from
poor or vulnerable groups.
In this connection, it intends to improve girls' access, throughput and success; to promote quality
special inclusive education throughout the country; and to engage in affirmative action as regards the
delivery of education and the distribution of resources for the benefit of children from poor and/or
vulnerable families.
The following measures will achieve these goals:
- formulation and implementation by the Local Education Councils of action plans focused on equal
opportunity for access and participation by girls and boys in all their schools, on suitable attention to the
special needs of disabled children and on specific inputs of teaching materials for pupils from poor and/or
vulnerable backgrounds;
- greater attention to gender-specific problems in curricula, in initial and in-service training of teachers and
in guidance and counseling programs of the Ministry of Education;
- increase in the enrollment of girls, through specific measures such as social mobilization, assignment of
women to posts of responsibility, creation of cafeterias and social centers in secondary schools, campaigns
to sensitize parents and communities to gender and development issues;
- identification of vulnerable groups, evaluation of their needs and formulation of an appropriate action
strategy, in cooperation with all the Ministries concerned, the local communities, NGOs and religious
groupings; creation of a system to promote awareness and ensure early detection of disabilities and
provision of special services for children with disabilities that prevent normal attendance at school;
- training of special education teachers and inspectors and development of special curricula, of appropriate
teaching materials and of a technological support system;
- creation, in cooperation with the partners, of an affirmative action system of scholarships and financial
aid for girls who are good at mathematics, science and technology and for poor and vulnerable children,
particularly orphans and rural children.
2.8.2.  Education in health matters, environmental issues, family life and demographics
The Government remains convinced that education in health matters, environmental issues,
family life and demographics is an essential guarantee for the advent of lasting human development.
The Ministry of Education will work closely with the Ministries of Health and of the
Environment and with the other partners to safeguard the health of students (and, through them, the health
of their communities of origin and of their future families) and to enhance their global and immediate
environment.
In this connection, the Government will take the following measures; adoption of health and
environmental standards for schools and lycees;  creation of a package of deworning services;
development of school infirmaries run by community shifts formed for this purpose; reform of school
medical examinations to focus on health education, particularly as regards AIDS, personal hygiene and
8



reproductive health; sensitizing and involvement of parents; regular cleaning and periodic disinfecting of
premises; resumption of annual medical examinations in schools; training of teachers in the use of simple
tests to diagnose hearing and vision problems; permanent incorporation of cross-disciplinary programs
devoted to these issues in the curricula of basic schools, so that they will become generally used and
permanent.
2.8.3.  Teaching of Arabic
Because of the importance of the Arabic language in the cultural environment of the Senegalese
populations, the Government reaffirms its determination to promote the teaching of Arabic.
In response to the increased demand for education, Franco-Arab schools will be developed in a
carefully monitored experiment, particularly at the basic education level and in areas where expansion of
the conventional school is encountering resistance. In the system to be set up, French-language instruction
will account for at least 40 percent of the students' time.
Appropriate arrangements will be made to recruit bilingual (French-Arabic) teachers and to bring
their weekly workload into line with that of the French-language teachers.
2.8.4.  Information and communication technologies (TIC)
In its desire to promote TIC development, the Government reaffirms its decision to use them as a
means of improving the quality of teaching and learning in schools and of enhancing the institutional
capacities of the Ministry of Education through reasonably-priced methods of internal and external
communication.
In this connection, the Government will set up computer centers in certain institutions, with
priority initially given to upper basic schools and lycees; it will upgrade the computer equipment of the
central and decentralized services of the Ministry of Education, improve the training of teachers and staff
of the central and decentralized services of the Ministry and devise acceptable arrangements for assuming
the costs incurred for computerization.
2.8.5.  Recruitment and training of teachers
The goal of the Government is to provide the education system with appropriate numbers of
qualified teachers to achieve the quantitative and qualitative targets set under the PDEF.  While
grandfathering the teachers who are civil servants, it will give preference to various types of contractual
status for the recruitment of staff for basic schools and lycees.
In this connection, for reasons of equity, logic and efficiency, the Government will overhaul the
training system and the method of recruiting teachers to meet the goals of the PDEF. The standardization
of initial and in-service training for the teachers concerned, the large-scale recruitment of contract staff
and the decentralization of the management of this staff will be the main features of this reform.
The strategies to be used for this purpose may be summarized as follows:
9



* Teachers for basic schools and lyc6es will be recruited from among graduates of the teacher
training schools (EFI) and of the Ecole Normale Sup6rieure (ENS), initially as education
volunteers or substitute teachers. After fours years as volunteers or substitute teachers, they are
hired as contract teachers and given career plans to improve their initial status, with the
possibility of joining the civil service through a competitive examination, on the basis of quotas
to be set each year.
*  The selection of education volunteers and substitute teachers will be organized annually by the
IA through a regional competitive examination based on the quotas assigned, in the light of the
needs identified, to the IDEN and IA by ministerial decree. The Ministry of Education will issue
a new text on the organization of regional competitive examinations for the recruitment of
education volunteers and substitute teachers.
. The volunteers selected in the ten regions of Senegal to work in the lower basic schools will be
trained exclusively in the EFI, on the basis of a well-established compendium of skills and
improved training facilities. The four existing EFIs will be restructured for this purpose, so as to
enable them to train two groups each consisting of 1,000 volunteers each year. The duration of
training for volunteers will be increased from three to five months.
*. The substitute teachers selected in the regions to work in the upper basic schools and lyc6es will
undergo a one-year training at the Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS) which will have enhanced
teaching facilities.
- Fees will continue to be charged for auditors or persons sent by private entities, local
communities or NGOs to the EFI or the ENS. The activities of these training institutions will
include distance learning.
- The IDEN will be responsible for managing the contract staff or civil servants assigned to them
to work in the basic schools; the IA will manage the contract staff or civil servants working in
the lycees.
' The institutional capacities of the EFI, the ENS and the Regional Training Poles (PRF) will be
strengthened so as to enable them effectively to provide initial and in-service training for staff of
the basic schools and lycees.
* The Government will put in place arrangements for improved in-service training, based on a
compendium of skills that are relevant, effective and adapted to the different levels of education.
The idea will be to supplement and reinforce the initial training and to hold sessions mainly in the
schools to provide answers to specific pedagogy problems encountered by teachers or to
introduce innovations. The PRF will continue to play a central role in collaboration with the EFI
and the ENS.
*  A plan of action will be implemented to assign to teaching duties the teachers who are perforning
administrative tasks and to reduce the percentage of supplementary teachers from the present
level of 10.8 percent to 5 percent.
* Because of the need for a more professional corps of teachers, the Government will formulate a
code of ethics setting norms and standards of good performance.   It will strengthen
10



communication and collaboration with labor and management in order to improve the moral and
material situation of teachers.
2.9.   Financing of education
The Programme Decennal de l'Education et de la Formation (PDEF), which is to stimulate
economic, technical and social performance, will enjoy the support of the State, local collectivities,
communities, private sector and development partners.  The budget resources to be allocated to the
Ministry of Education should make it possible to attain the priority goal of universal quality education by
2008; a budget framework will be prepared using the financial simulation model with assumptions
derived from the review of govemment spending:
- average annual GDP growth of at least 5 percent and average annual growth in the volume of the State
budget of 2.5 percent;
- continued allocation to education of at least 33 percent of the State budget until 2008;
- gradual increase in the share of the budgets of the local communities allocated to education, from I
percent in 1998 to 10 percent in 2008, to as to meet recurrent costs and investment costs;
- increased awareness among development partners and NGOs of the need to fund the education system;
- mobilization of communities and the private sector to contribute more to the cost of education and
particularly the post-elementary levels;
- rational management of resources allocated to the education system.
* Funding for early childhood development will be provided mainly by local collectivities,
communities, NGOs, civil society and private promoters.  The State will contribute to the extent
possible.
* Lower basic education is free of charge and remains the Government's top priority. Recurrent
costs will be balanced between the levels of education, giving priority to this subsector. The goal
will be gradually to increase the share of elementary education costs in the operating budget, initially
to 44 percent in 2003 and then to about 50 percent in 2008. Textbooks will be provided without
charge at least in this subsector, as part of a publishing policy based on contracts with the private
sector.
The development of upper basic education will be financed by the State, local communities and
private promoters to pave the way for universal ten-year education.
* Secondary education will to a large extent be financed by the State. However, inevitable
beneficiary involvement will be discussed and regulated in a cost recovery plan. Involvement of the
private sector and of NGOs in the expansion of the subsector and improvement of its quality will be
strongly encouraged. It is planned (i) to construct the necessary infrastructures on the basis of a
partnership between the State, local collectivities, communities, NGOs and the private sector; (ii) to
set, at the level of the Local Education Councils, the fees to be paid for attendance in each lycee and
to maintain a system of subsidies to help poor children and vulnerable groups.
* The Government will introduce a cost recovery system for levels other than the elementary level:
upper basic education, general and technical secondary education, vocational training and higher
education. A schedule of fees for each level, describing the decentralized management of the funds
received by the institutions and the categories of eligible expenditure will be finalized during 2000 at
11



the latest with a view to its application as of the school year 2000-01. The estimates in the PDEF
simulation model will be used as a basis for this work.
* The Government will create a development fund for technical education and vocational training.
The budgetary and extrabudgetary resources allocated to the subsector will be increased in the light
of the goals to be set in the first phase of the PDEF.
* The financing of higher education will be shared between the State, the students and the
academic institutions, which will have to move towards relative financial autonomy. To the extent
possible, the State will continue its policy of assisting vulnerable groups and promoting excellence.
Thus, the State pays as far as possible the costs of salaries, upgrading of staff, development programs
and research.  The students will pay fees to be set by the institutions' governing bodies. The
academic institutions will pay a large proportion of their operating costs from student fees and
revenue-generating activities which they will undertake.
A study will be made on forms of public support for higher education. This support will depend
on the provision of certain services defined in specifications or annual contracts.
Public universities will have to submit regularly to the Government their policies and strategic
plans, their results, financial reports and quality control reports.
The State will give support in the form of assistance or scholarships to deserving students from
poor families, female students and disabled students.
* Funding for literacy campaigns will be provided mainly by the local collectivities, NGOs and
other development partners, enterprises, communities, families and private individuals, following
procedures which will be standardized by 2002.
* Private education: For the Government, the persons responsible for private schools are privileged
partners in the provision of education services. It will create favorable conditions to strengthen their
participation in the development of education.
In order to do so, it will revise the legislation governing private education, facilitate access by
private promoters to land, soft loans, public funds or donor funds and foundations.
2.10. Organization and management of education
The development of the sector is based, firstly, on a programmatic approach and, secondly, on
decentralized planning, implementation and evaluation of departmental and regional plans for the
development of education (PDDE and PRDE), within a partnership of local communities, decentralized
school authorities and civil society. The Government will be responsible for the creation and supervision
of decentralized planning structures.
In this new context, the Government guarantees the application of the provisions of law No. 91-
22 of February 16, 1991 and the creation of a relevant and efficient system of education and training. It
will guarantee standards and actively seek full and fair participation of the various stakeholders and
assistance from private, individual and collective initiative.
12



A system of participatory management of the program approach will be created. It will take the
form of a National Higher Council for Education and Training (CONSEF), which will be responsible for
guiding, encouraging and validating the plans of operation. It will be headed by the Minister of Education
and the coordination and follow-up committees established at the national, regional and departmental
levels. This system will provide better coordination for donors' contributions.
* By law, the local communities have important functions in the sphere of education. They are
responsible for the development of education and training within their jurisdiction and for the
maintenance of school infrastructures. For this purpose, they must promote a broad and effective
partnership at the grassroots level.
In collaboration with the decentralized authorities, they will be responsible for developing basic
education, within the framework of the formulation, implementation and evaluation of the PRDE and
PDDE, mobilization of partners and resources and adaptation of new curricula to the local context.
For this purpose, the Government will create Local Education Councils, composed of local
elected officials, members of civil society, school authorities and parents of students. They will provide a
forum for harmonizing, guiding and regulating educational projects and plans at the level of the schools,
rural communities, communes, departments and regions.
The regulations governing the Councils will be drawn up following consultations by means of a
survey to be conducted in 2000.
The Government will put in place arrangements for regional capacity-building, an effective
system of monitoring the use of resources transferred and a dynamic partnership for participatory
management of basic education.
The autonomy and responsibility of schools and scholastic or training institutions will be
enhanced as school projects are developed, which will be linked to the PDDE and PRDE.
* With this decentralization and devolution, the central services of the Ministry of Education will
retain their function of regulation and supervision: they will formulate policies, draft regulations,
mobilize resources, develop the national curriculum, set norms and standards, supervise building
maintenance, follow and evaluate the development of the system, and compile and publish national
statistics.
The Government will issue a new decree reorganizing the Ministry of Education and will
establish a coherent and rational organigram reflecting PDEF options.
It will modernize its management and information system, introduce a results-based approach to
management and create a more selective system for appointments to posts of responsibility, with specific
job descriptions.
It will develop effective coordination of the education and training activities undertaken by
various ministerial departments, integrating them in a single political framework. An interministerial
committee with its own secretariat will be established for this purpose.
13



* The Government will delegate project oversight in general, particularly as regards construction of
classrooms and publishing of textbooks. For this purpose, an agency will be created by October 2000
to deal with school construction and equipment.
* In addition to the State and the local communities:
- development partners support programs to develop the education sector, upgrade human
resources and strengthen the institutional capacities of the educational facilities.
- civil society (NGOs, trade unions, parent-teacher associations, women's associations, ASC)
contributes in various ways to the design, implementation and evaluation of policies and programs for
the development of education and training at all levels of the system.
Full community participation in the development of education will be encouraged at all levels. In
this connection, the Government will have to revise the existing legislation, foster a more open attitude
among teachers and authorities and support the NGOs and other entities providing education for girls
and disabled, poor or vulnerable children.
The Government will do everything necessary to create a dynamic partnership among stakeholders
in order to guarantee the attainment of the common goals.
Done at Dakar on February 14, 2000
ANDRE SONKO                       MOUIAMED EL MOUSTAPHA DIAGNE
MINISTER OF EDUCATION           MINISTER OF ECONOMY, FINANCE AND PLANNING
14



S



Fotrmee r       --\i1 6'                                                                 1 51 14                                                      3'                            12
Spals h                ALGERIA
Sahara !   r .\                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                     ~          ~~~~~~~M A U R I T A N I ASENEGAL
N                                  MAURITANIA                                                          ~~SENEGAL
MAURITANIA                                          To  Nouakchotl                         Podo                                                                        PRIMARY ROADS
A L I                                          Rosso                                                . -'                                             SECONDARY ROADS
Nemnn |      *ronboutoou  !               z      \_-_    O           Dagana                    H  r         \                                                  RAILROADS
* SENEGAL 6/ / NIGER                               Toll             ,                '                                                            RichardHLaer6 o  ,  +?o0 SELECTED TOWNS
Bo_= ,o   <       *Dunukoj    '    s~< aNiu                                                                                                                                   m~ /  ',  REG ION CAPITALS
~~   GUINEA ~~~~~~  ~ ~   -  r         ~           ~         ~          5A   INT
GUINEAr-y \       k51..r                          $ N            .QE                          S A  I N T -                   -%Ee, .r      e                        e      AIRPORTS
OIL DSVOIEEi  - (e  Sam                                                           Galoyao                                           PORTS                              16'
Lou ls                                                                                Thilogneoe      ,-         -                REGION BOUNDARIES
Ndibene0.           p                                       0Lagbar:             L 0  U  I S                               .           BOUINTERNATIONAL
Gondiol                                                                                                                                BOUNDARIES
Louga *   Niomr6    Mbeuleukh60 e                                                   OuroSoRuiQ  *,
r                              .cm LOU G A  Lgue        i        Ra hr
\, ; - i Doa                                .                               .                                N   
R h/Scdata                                                 7                                                                                    (-      t
M6kh6    N      Darou      .-s
-15~r .  >   o<  8   tiV61ingaraO                                                  F    >                                                        i              15
CAP-VERT    .,  .            Qa Olivatuone      Ndid                             OTi6i
Pi kine            *           amhJ?IC)GR- BE                         Gassane
DAKAR       RufisqDue   _KT H I EoS                        I                                                                                                         d         Ta Kyelobse
,    /  t--    <S    _o t~~~~~~~~MbSv   s                                             ~~Kdr                                                   To Kayes
MbourO       -"  '    J4TI'CK <-  /Gfn quin6o)            I ONdiob6ne                                    B '  oa
Jool-FadioutO'.2-,   ia'ajackg       AOLAC K  Lour-Escale,    ,'                                                       o     dr
-14'                                        ni    Jw~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ Kaffrine ', _        .    Koumpentoum               'IKotiari     /t.14-
JoolFodout ~ ~     ~     ~     doan
Sokone,<            Noae9. Kou                         ngreu=u              Koussonor  .        ,         
14                                                                                                                             TAMB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Noo uRpACOUNDA 
, f\ /ONIoro du RI~                          '-tM  a              mbacounda                             Dalafi
BANJUL T                                                                                                                                                 \fl.
0 Ga mon
GAMBIA r A                                                                                                                            0Kas -
V&lingarao,                                                                           Missiras  13
-1 3                                                       .        /        .                 Kt O L            A,                                                                                     MissiraK L  13A
ZIGUINCHOR                                      Koida.                                            MIkoQ                                                   Sarayo
Bignonoa       tMarsassout6             'a' d.                                              ' 
r-    k.      s6dhioo   ...                                                 r                                     Kedougou_0, 
Ziguinchorq)        '      -
To Bissau t:                                                       _r
GUINEA - BISSAU                                                                        G U I N E A
0 G          50            100                                                                                                 _}           The boundarisc colors, denominations and any other informst,ion    7Q
__________________ ___                                                                                                           i         shown ott this mop do not imply, on the part of Thu World Rank Group.
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                        any judgment on tse legal status of any territory, or any entdoaiemenu [
a0|                                                                                                                                                  or _cceptance of- 16ch b.ries,                         ___oa t s bs
17-                           1 6'                           5                                                                                          12



