                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 34522

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (IDA-33330 PPFI-Q1920)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.7 MILLION (US$50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                    SENEGAL

                                     FOR A

                   QUALITY EDUCATION FOR ALL PROGRAM (QEFA)
    IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE TEN-YEAR EDUCATION AND TRAINING
                               PROGRAM (PDEF)




                                   June 26, 2006




Human Devlopment II
Country Department 14
Africa Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective Exchange Rate effective as of April, 2006)

                                   Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                      CFAF 540 = US$ 1.00
                                       US$ 1.00 = 540

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                    January 1  December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD    French Development Agency -      IA                Regional school inspection office -
       Agence Française de                                Inspection d'Académie
       Développement
AfDB   African Development Bank          ICR              Implementation Completion Report
                                                          - Rapport d'Achèvement
AFDS   Social Development Fund          IDA               International Development Agency
       Agency- Agence du Fonds de
       Développement Social
AGETIP Agence d'Exécution des           IDEN              Departmental Education
       Travaux d'Intérêt Public                           Inspectorate - Inspection
                                                          Départementale de l'Education
                                                          Nationale
AIDS   Acquired Immuno Deficiency        INEADE           National Institute of Studies and
       Syndrome                                           Action for the Development of
                                                          Education - Institut National
                                                          d'Etudes et d'Action pour le
                                                          Développement de l'Education
BCI    Investment Consolidated          KFW               Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau
       Budget - Budget Consolidé
       d'Investissement
BREDA  Regional Bureau of UNESCO        MEN               Ministry of Education - Ministère
       for Education in Africa -                          de l'Education Nationale
       Bureau Régional de
       l'UNESCO pour l'Education en
       Afrique
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy       MIS              Management Information System
CDD    Community-Driven                  NGO              Non Governmental Organization
       Development
CIME   Ministry of Education's          OPEC Fund         Organization of Petroleum
       Informatics Unit - Cellule                         Exporting Countries Fund
       Informatique du Ministère de
       l'Education
CNCS   National Committee for            PAC              Urban Development and
       Coordination and Monitoring -                      Decentralization Program -
       Comité National de                                 Programme d'Appui aux
       Coordination et du Suivi                           Communes
CODEC  Council of School Directors -     PAES             Higher Education Development
       Conseil des Directeur d'Ecoles                     Project - Projet d'Amélioration de

                                                 l'Enseignement Supérieur
CONSEF Higher Council of Education     PADELU    Local Authorities Development
       and Training - Conseil                    Program - Programme d'Appui aux
       Supérieur de                              Développement des Elus
       l'Education et de la Formation
CREA   Center for Applied Economic     PAIS      Intensive Literacy Program of
       Research - Centre de Recherche            Senegal - Programme
       en Economie Appliquée                     d'Alphabétisation Intensif du
                                                 Sénégal
CRCS   Regional Committee for          PAPA      Support Program for Literacy
       Coordination and Followup -               Projects - Projet d'Appui au Plan
       Comité Régional de                        d'action de l'Alphabétisation
       Coordination et de Suivi
CSR    Country Status Report           PAPF      Female Literacy Project - Projet
                                                 d'Appui à l'Alphabétisation des
                                                 Femmes
CUR    Community College - Collège     PDDE      Departmental Plan for the
       Universitaire Régional                    Development of Education - Plan
                                                 Départemental de Développement
                                                 de l'Education
DAGE   Department of General           PDEF      Ten-Year Education and Training
       Administration and Equipment              Development Program -
       -Direction de l'Administration            Programme Décennal de
       Générale et de l'Equipement               l'Education et de la Formation
DCES   Department of School            PDRH2     Project for the Development of
       Construction and Equipment -              Human Resources­2 - Projet de
       Direction des Constructions et            Développement des Ressources
       de l'Equipement Scolaires                 Humaines­2
DEE    Department of Elementary        PER       Public Expenditure Review
       Education - Direction
       l'Enseignement Elémentaire
DEMSG  Department of Middle and        PETS      Public Expenditure Tracking
       General Secondary Education -             Survey
       Direction de l'Enseignement
       Moyen et Secondaire Général
DPRE   Educational Planning and        PNIR      National Program for Rural
       Reform Department - Direction             Infrastructures - Programme
       de la Planification et de la              National d'Infrastructures Rurales
       Réforme de l'Education
DRH    Department of Human             PRDE      Regional Plan for the Development
       Resources - Direction des                 of Education - Plan Régional de
       Ressources Humaines                       Développement de l'Education
ECD    Early Childhood Development     TFP       Technical and Financial Partners
       ­ Développement de la Petite
       Enfance
EFI    Teacher Training School -       QEFA      Quality Education for All Program
       Ecole de Formation des                    - Programme Education de Qualité
       Instituteurs                              Pour Tous (EQPT)
ENS    Higher Level Teacher Training   SDR       Special Drawing Rights
       Institution - Ecole Normale
       Supérieure
ESAM   Senegal Household Survey -      SMC       School Management Committee -

       Enquête Sénégalaise auprès des                  Comité de gestion scolaire
       Ménages
FONDEF Vocational Training Fund -      SNERS           National System for Assessing
       Fonds de Développement de la                    Educational Performance - Système
       Formation professionnelle                       National d'Evaluation des
                                                       Rendements Scolaires
GER    Gross Enrollment Rate            SWAp           Sector-Wide Approach
GPS    Global Positioning System        UCAD           Cheick Anta Diop University -
                                                       Université Cheick Anta Diop
GTZ    German Agency for Technical      UNESCO         United Nations Educational,
       Cooperation (GTZ)                               Scientific, and Cultural
                                                       Organization
HIV    Human Immuno Deficiency          UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
       Virus
                                        VEN            Volunteers for National Education,
                                                       Volontaires de l'Education
                                                       Nationale



                                Vice President:  Gobing T. Nankani
                               Country Director  Madani M. Tall
                                Sector Manager   Alexandre V. Abrantes
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Atou Seck

                                          SENEGAL
                              Quality Education for All Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                19
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 20
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             44
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            48
Annex 8. Government Contribution                                                 49
Annex 9. Assessment of Triggers to Phase 2                                       55
Annex 10. Components presentation                                                58

Project ID: P047319                                                  Project Name: Quality Education for All Program
Team Leader: Atou Seck                                               TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 26, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Quality Education for All Program                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-33330; PPFI-Q1920
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General education sector (86%); Central government administration (14%)
                  Theme: Gender (P); Education for all (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (P); Access to urban services and housing (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/02/1999                                     Effective: 04/15/2000                11/18/2000
     Appraisal: 09/09/1999                                         MTR:                             04/13/2003
      Approval: 04/11/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL/MINISTRY OF
                                           EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:      Agence Française de Développement, African Development Bank, Canadian
                                           International Development Agency, Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, Islamic
                                           Development Bank, Nordic Development Fund, OPEC Fund, Japan , USAID,
                                           Luxembourg

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Nicholas R. Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Atou Seck                                      Robert S. Prouty
ICR Primary Author:             Atou Seck


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

A. Background


The objectives of the first phase of QEFA must be examined in the context of recent changes in the
country's education and training sectors. By mid-1990s, Senegal's education sector was supported by
several donor projects, most notably by a series of International Development Association (IDA)
operations, including the following: (i) the Second Human Resource Development Project (Projet de
développement des resources humaines­2, PDRH2) (1994­1999), which helped increase Senegal's gross
enrollment rate (GER) from 57 percent to 65 percent between 1995 and 1999; (ii) the Higher Education
Support Project (Projet d'Appui à l'Enseignement Supérieur, PAES) (1996­2003); and (iii) the Pilot
Female Literacy Project (Projet d'Appui à l'Alphabétisation des Femmes, PAPF) (1996­2003).


Scope of the ICR. Senegal's Quality Education for All Program (QEFA) is a sector-wide program
supporting the Ten-Year Education and Training Development Program (Programme Décennal de
l'Education et de la Formation, PDEF). QEFA is supported by eleven other donors including the
Government through coordinated parallel financing, and the ICR covers the implementation results of the
entire program (for which IDA financed only 2.9%). The estimated program cost and financing sources for
QEFA at appraisal and presently are shown in Table 3, section 5.4. While the primary objective of QEFA
was to set up a framework to ensure quality universal basic education, the QEFA developed strategies to
improve the effectiveness of the management of the entire sector particularly in post basic education,
notably secondary and higher education levels. The ICR will assess strategies implemented in the entire
sector to support the primary objective.

Definitions to avoid confusion about PDEF and QEFA Program : QEFA represented an important shift
in approach, from a series of sub-sectoral and free-standing investment operations, to a sector-wide
approach (SWAp) in support of the Government's program. First, PDEF is defined as the Government
Ten-Year Education and Training Development Program (Programme Décennal de l'Education et de la
Formation, PDEF). It describes the objectives and strategies to be implemented in order to achieve primary
education for all by 2010. The policies and strategies of PDEF are described in the letter of the education
sector policy and the national master plan. Second, QEFA Program supported the Government's policy
measures and priorities. It is financed by IDA as well as eleven other donors including the Government and
framed as a sector expenditures program. This expenditure program does not include households and local
governments' financing. The QEFA Program and its financing plan are described in the project appraisal
document. Its objectives, components and performance indicators are identical to those of the first three
years of PDEF. The IDA contribution to the first phase of QEFA Program is described in the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) and has also the same objectives, indicators, component as QEFA Program.

B. Project Development Objectives

The Objective of QEFA was to ensure that the framework for quality universal basic education is in place,
that is effective and ready for national implementation. Given the achievement of Senegal's education
system over the period 1996-1999, as well as Government's clear commitment to the achievement of
universal primary education by 2015, this objective was realistic. The Bank's contribution to QEFA is the
first phase of an Adaptable Program Loan (APL). The objectives of each component are described in
further details in Section 3.3.




                                                     - 2 -

The project development objectives for QEFA reflected Government's priorities at project appraisal in
1999, as noted in the government's Ninth Economic Development Plan and in the PDEF documents. The
objectives were consistent with the IDA Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) from 1998 to 2000, which
clearly identified education as a priority. In addition, the objectives were consistent with the March 2003
CAS supporting the Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) pillars related to wealth
creation for economic growth and capacity building, as well as to the development of social services for
more equity. This CAS also aimed to ensure the social sustainability of the country's macroeconomic
stabilization program through sector investment programs in health and education and greater focus on
taking action to address the low female literacy rate.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives for the project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Phase 1 of QEFA had three main components, each of which had subcomponents that covered all levels of
Senegal's education system--from preschool to university. The detailed sub-components are provided in
Annex 10.

Component 1: Increasing access to education (US$637.00 million, of which IDA 29.60m): The
objective was to increase the coverage and equity of education through the expansion of primary and lower
secondary school enrollment, with a particular focus on enhancing the participation of girls and boys living
in underserved regions as well as of children with special learning needs.

Component 2: Improving the quality of schooling (US$243.00 million, of which IDA 12.75m): The
objective was to improve the learning process, particularly in primary and lower secondary education,
through a series of innovations, with particular emphasis on reading and on improving the conditions,
strategies, and policies that support learning.

Component 3: Strengthening capacity for decentralized management of education (US$46.00 million
of which IDA 7.65m): The objective was to modernize and strengthen education sector management by
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Education to set policies and guidelines for the sector and by
improving the education system's capacity for service delivery.

The components and subcomponents of QEFA were globally pertinent and aimed at achieving QEFA
objectives. They were designed taking into consideration the government's priorities and lessons learned
from the implementation of PDRH2 and PAPF. Although the activities identified within QEFA are justified
given the complex policy environment, it is clear that not all lessons from previous projects were adequately
taken into account (see discussion in point 3.5 Quality at Entry below).

3.4 Revised Components:
None of the components has been revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
It is important to recognize the valuable work done by the preparation teams that played a central role in
the region from shifting from a project approach to a program approach. This SWAP of the education was
one of the first prepared in Western Africa. In this context, all stakeholders (the government, the Bank and
other donors) were in the process of learning and should need to almost reinvent the wheel in project design.




                                                      - 3 -

A QAG assessment carried out in April 2001 rated that the overall quality at entry and also the quality of
the different assessment parameters was Satisfactory, with the following two exceptions: (i) the Technical,
Financial and Economic aspects of the operation were found to be Highly Satisfactory but, (ii) the
Implementation Arrangements and the Financial Management Aspects were only rated Marginally
Satisfactory. Selection of an APL as the lending instrument was highly appropriate in this instance as was
the effort to address the complex and politically sensitive sector policy and operational issues, though there
should have been perhaps fewer of them during the first phase. Adoption of a sector wide approach
required the inclusion of a great number of components (27 in the first phase). Implementation
arrangements were found to be less than fully satisfactory in view of the need to complete after Board
approval several implementation manuals and the cooperation agreement with the other donors. The QAG
assessment agreed with the project concept (despite the unavoidable complexity), more thought could have
been given to a different phasing of activities under the stages of the APL by concentrating on a more
selective number of institutional and policy issues, and less on physical facilities, during the first phase.
The panel judged that there was scope for greater involvement by the country director in the policy dialogue
with the Government.

The Quality at Entry of the first phase of QEFA is rated only moderately satisfactory by the ICR based
on the criteria below.

Alignment of the program with Government and World Bank priorities, and strong Government
ownership: QEFA was consistent with the 1998-2000 CAS. The objectives of the project were clearly
defined and realistic, and were in line with those of the PDEF. Government showed strong commitment to
the program, and participated in the design, both by putting together an outstanding team and by setting up
a coherent sectoral approach to meet its objectives. The ten year sector program aimed to address
disparities in the education sector by focusing on girls' education as well as on the poorest children and
children with special needs; the QEFA program support that goal.

Design of QEFA. The comprehensiveness of the QEFA - with an extensive MTEF, integrated recurrent
and investment budget did permit a basis to monitor, execute and define broad areas of what donors would
finance. However, in addition to the important number of policy reforms introduced, QEFA started too
many pilots in the quality component without assessing properly the ownership and the technical and
institutional feasibility of each pilot. Except the school grant initiative, these pilots seemed not to have
interested the Government and were mainly supported by external opinions. Such a lack of commitment
and ownership on the part of the Government explained in part delays in their implementation.

Readiness for implementation and institutional capacity: The Department of General Administration
and Equipment (Direction de l'Administration Générale et de l'Equipement, DAGE), charged with both
procurement and financial management responsibilities for the sector, was well prepared for the
implementation of the program. QEFA benefited from the well-trained administrative personnel that had
implemented PDRH2, who strengthened Government's implementation capacities. To ensure an adequate
financial management, an action plan was set up after Board approval to strengthen DAGE capacity. In
addition, the delegated contract management arrangement with the Agence d'Exécution des Travaux
d'Intérêt Public (AGETIP) for the construction of classrooms was a successful one; the Agency had
developed both the know-how and the management acumen when it had managed the pilot phase of PAPF,
and was able to support the QEFA program effectively by successfully increasing its construction program
from 540 classrooms per year during prior to QEFA to 2000 classrooms per year.


Lessons learned were partially incorporated into the design: Not all the lessons learned were


                                                      - 4 -

incorporated into the project design. The project capitalized on the lessons from the Pilot Female Literacy
Project, and incorporated some of those related to classroom construction and volunteer teacher
management from the second Project for the Development of Human Resources (PDRH2). Yet it did not
reflect the lessons drawn from the failure and mismanagement of the textbook component under that
project, and it ignored the lessons learned from the Higher Education Development Project, the most
important of which was the lack of realism with regard to IDA's ability to compel Government to take
politically difficult decisions regarding higher education.

Not all education demands were met: QEFA was not designed to respond to those populations with
different demands for education due to their religious or cultural beliefs. As a result, a portion of the
population, mainly in the regions of Diourbel and Louga, did not attend public schools because the schools,
when they existed at all, did not respond to their religious and cultural needs.

Implementation arrangement: Although QEFA had entrusted Government's existing departments with
the implementation of program activities, it also created new committees at all levels for its coordination
rather than using existing mechanisms that were already operational (such as the consultation framework at
the local level, regional or departmental development committees (CRD, CDD), weekly ministerial
meetings at the central level, annual inter-ministerial council chaired by the Prime Minister). This, in turn,
made the implementation arrangements of the program too artificial. The newly created committees
(CONSEF, CNCS, CRCS, CDCS and CLEF) have never been operational, mainly because they were very
disconnected from the reality, and the existing mechanisms had continued functioning as usual.

Important risks were not identified: Fifteen major risks had been identified under the QEFA; however,
there was insufficient focus on the risks that seemed obvious during the appraisal and were related to: (i)
the limited capacity of Government and the Ministry of Education to simultaneously conduct reforms in all
sub-sectors of a conventional education system; and (ii) risks associated with the potential for a changing
political environment since the project had been negotiated a week before the presidential elections. In fact,
the new government elected in March 2000 set a different vision for the education sector, announcing new
priorities such as the facility-based early childhood development model (cases de tout-petit); mass literacy
(aiming at 2 million learners per year); and the granting of scholarships to virtually all students entering
university regardless of need.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of the overall program objective of the first phase of QEFA was Moderately
Satisfactory. The ICR mission used the program indicators outlined in the project appraisal document for
the first phase of QEFA to determine whether the project had achieved its development objectives. In
addition, the ICR mission considered the primary education completion rate, which is currently one of the
relevant indicators used for assessing students' achievement at the primary level. Also, the key performance
indicators in the project appraisal document to assess the improvement of a decentralized management
system are not all appropriate. The indicators used to determine whether decentralized management is
effective are those highlighted as indicators for the relevant component in the logical framework or as
criteria for triggers.

Overall, the objective to implement a framework for quality education was achieved. Senegal was able to
maintain a sustainable increase in terms of access to education through constructing sufficient number of
schools, recruiting required number of teachers, transferring enough responsibilities for managing the
education sector to decentralized departments. These efforts were sustained by a favorable budget



                                                      - 5 -

allocation to primary education. The second phase of QEFA must continue in this direction by not only
focusing more on the improvement of the quality of teaching and learning and giving more attention to
middle schools, but also bringing in more efficiency in the use of resources.

A. Performance Indicators Related to Increasing Access to Education
Table 1. Increasing Access to Basic Education: Changes in Key Performance Indicators, 1999­2005
                                                                          Baseline         Projected           Actual
Indicator of access to basic education                                      1999             2003              2005
Primary school gross enrollment rate (GER)                                        65%              75%             82.50%
Grade 1 intake                                                                    68%              80%             91.50%
Percentage of girls in overall primary school enrollment                          44%              46%             48.60%
Primary school completion rate                                                 36.30%                              53.90%
Early childhood development (ECD)
enrollment (with several models)                                                2.70%               1 %              6.80%
Number of persons benefiting from literacy classes                            191,577          120,000             417,000
... of which 75% women represent                                                  87% >75%                         89.60%
Percentage of the Ministry of Education's
recurrent expenditures for primary school                                         40%              44%             45.04%


As shown in Table 1 above:
(i)       One of the development objectives of QEFA was to significantly increase primary school
enrollments between 2000 and 2005, and it was achieved. During the implementation of the first phase
of QEFA (2000-2005), classrooms construction (about 2000 per year of which IDA contributed for about
1000 during the period) and substantial teacher recruitment contributed to increasing the gross enrollment
rate (GER) from 68 percent in 2000 to 82.5 percent in 2005. The grade 1 admission rate improved to 91.5
percent in 2005--well above the expected target of 80 percent. Girls represented 48.6 percent of primary
school students--higher than the target of 46 percent. These positive developments were supported by an
increase of the share of primary education in the Ministry of Education's recurrent budget that increased
from 40 percent in 2000 to 45.04 percent in 2005. Unfortunately, this improvement did slow down between
2004 and 2005--primarily due to the drop in external financing after the end of the first Phase of QEFA.

(ii)    Senegal's primary school completion rate improved during QEFA from 36.3 percent in 2000 to
53.9 percent in 2005, but it remains low comparatively to other countries in Africa (59 percent in
Sub-Saharan Africa). The completion rate improved for girls as well, passing from 31.6 percent in 2000 to
47.5 percent in 2005, though the gap between boys and girls remains.

(iii)     The enrollment rate in early childhood development (ECD) programs, which enroll children
from ages three to five, improved considerably--from 2.7 percent in 2000 to 6.8 percent in 2005. IDA
supported some training and instructional materials, but the bulk of the investments came from other
sources such as the national budget or Chinese funding.

(iv)      The literacy program enrolled 417,000 adults (89.6 percent of whom were female) during the first
phase of the project; IDA made substantial contributions, enrolling approximately 144,500 learners and
CIDA enrolled 205,116 over that period. The difference was supported by the government.

B. Performance Indicators Related to Improving the Quality of Education
Table 2. Improving the Quality of Primary Education: Changes in Key performance indicators
Quality at Basic education                                                                   Baseline  Projected
                                                                                             1999      2003        Actual/Latest
                                                                                                                   2005
2% annual increase in national student achievement scores compared to existing baseline in
math for Gr. 4 (baseline 1996) :
      French (baseline 1996, latest estimate 2002)                                             44.30%                    50.90%
      Maths (baseline 1996, latest estimate 2002)                                              44.40%                    56.20%
Reduction of repetition                                                                        13.00%       10.00%       12.40%




                                                                - 6 -

As shown in table 2 above:
(i)       Evaluations of grade 4 (CE2) students' achievements in French and Mathematics. During
QEFA preparation the available data on students' achievements were from 1996 and, another assessment in
the same subject areas was conducted in 2002, which coincided with the second year of QEFA
implementation. The assessments conducted by the National System for Assessing Educational
Performance (Système National d'évaluation des Rendements Scolaires, SNERS) showed improvements in
students' achievements between 1996 and 2002. Even if these improvements were not all related to QEFA,
students' achievements were higher in 2002 in both subject areas. In primary school, there were only 2.15
textbooks available per student by the end of the project, although a ratio of textbooks to students of 3 to 1
had been the goal. IDA financed the national assessments, launched a number of pilots aimed at improving
learning, and supported the purchase of textbooks at the start of the project. However, that initial stock of
textbooks was not renewed, and the lack of textbooks remains a major concern.

(ii)      The development of Senegal's middle schools: The transition rate from grade 6 (CM2) to grade 7
(6ème) increased from 38.9 percent in 2000 to 49 percent in 2005. However, the development of this
sub-sector was conducted in a disorderly manner. The improvement in the transition rate was mainly
achieved without any real increase in investments in school infrastructure; most of the new middle schools
(or collèges) were created either in temporary structures in rural areas or after displacing existing primary
school classrooms. At the same time, the share of middle schools in Government's recurrent budget
declined from 13 percent in 2000 to 9 percent in 2005. Although IDA supported teacher training at this
level, it did not support the creation of new school places in collèges.

(iii)     At the secondary and higher education levels :The objectives for these two sub-sectors were to
address quality,management and governance issues in order to improve the global sustainability of the
education system. Few significant results were in evidence. There was no sustainable strategy for the
implementation of the expected reforms. Quality improvements and management objectives that had been
set out for these two levels were not implemented, and the situation had completely degenerated at the
higher education level with the change in Government policy (see the ICR for the PAES project). In fact,
the mismanagement at these levels threatened the sustainability of results attained at the primary education
level. IDA had few activities planned for these sub-sectors, as the second phase was to have a particular
focus on them.

C. Performance Indicators Related to Strengthening Capacity for Decentralized Management
Three indicators were identified to determine whether decentralized management is effective: The first was
that at least eight school inspection offices (inspection d'académie, IAs) prepare comprehensive action
plans and a budget for recurrent and investment expenditures. The second was that all 40 departmental
education inspectorates (inspection départementale de l'education nationale, IDEN) manage contractual
teacher policies. The third was that financial management capacities be effective at the regional level.

The following developments indicate that the decentralized management of the education sector improved
during the first phase of the program: First, Senegal's 11 regions and 44 departments effectively prepared
their comprehensive regional (PRDE) and departmental plans (PDDE) for the development of education.
These plans have been translated into a regional and departmental medium-term expenditure framework
and discussed with all the stakeholders at each level. Second, the local education officials at the
departmental level (IDENs) effectively managed contractual teachers. These teachers were recruited
through a departmental exam, trained at the regional teacher training school (ecole de formation des
instituteurs, EFI) and contracted by the IDEN. Their careers are managed by the same local authorities.
Third, the financial management capacities in all IAs improved during the first Phase of the program. IDA


                                                       - 7 -

provided significant support to all three sets of activities, including a diagnostic study of the fiscal
management capabilities of IAs, which was performed and an improvement plan implemented under the
project. Professional accountants were hired in each IA, and a computerized management information
system was implemented. At the end of the first Phase of QEFA, these entities had been able to manage at
regional and departmental levels substantial resources from IDA, other donors, and the Government.

Triggers : As Annex 9 indicates, all three triggers related to access, quality, and decentralized
management of education, have been met as of the end of 2005. First, regarding the decentralization of
school mapping, all school facilities in Senegal are geo-referenced and are being introduced in the
information management system (IMS). Planners at the central and decentralized-- departmental education
inspectorate, (IDEN) -- levels are familiar with the IMS but are not yet using it for preparing PDDEs.
They are considered as technical advisors for local governments on school mapping. Second, the various
pilot initiatives were tested and evaluated; and the Government of Senegal decided to extend multigrade
teaching, and school grants initiatives. The results of the standardized assessment in primary were finalized
in 2002. The reading initiative pilot is not conclusive and decision has been made to merge it with the
school grants initiatives. Considering the national language, the government decided to pursue the pilot
during phase 2 of QEFA while correcting difficulties experienced under phase 1. Finally, regarding the
objective of achieving sufficient capacities at the local level to manage the education sector, a sectoral
policy for technical and vocational training was adopted. The financial model has been revised for the
second phase of QEFA. It has been shared with the Ministry of Finance and other donors. The first Phase
of QEFA has reinforced financial management capacities at the regional level. School projects and
IA/IDEN action plans have been managed at IA level in a satisfactory manner. Thus, QEFA is now ready
to move to Phase 2.

4.2 Outputs by components:

A. Outputs Related to Component 1: Increasing Access to Education (Rated Satisfactory)

Increasing access to basic education:

Construction of early childhood development (ECD) centers: The ECD subcomponent was implemented
through the testing of five integrated models for developing early childhood programs in 971 centers (180
selected centers were planned)--notably 104 community centers (cases communautaires) for ECD, 147
facility-based, publicly financed ECD models (cases des tout-petit), and 450 preschools and kindergartens.
All five models have been tested and are operational.

Construction of primary school classrooms: The expected number of primary school classrooms was
built. The PDEF envisaged the construction of at least 2,000 primary classrooms per year of which 87
percent financed by public resources (Government and donors). Between 2000 and 2005, a total of 10,214
primary classrooms were built, about 7089 of which were built with domestic financing, 1,000 with IDA
financing, and 2,125 with other donors' funding. However, school construction was not decentralized as
planned, and continued to be managed at the central level by different entities. The mandate of the
Department of School Construction and Equipment (Direction des Constructions et de l' Equipement
Scolaires, DCES) to establish standards and perform quality control was not satisfactorily fulfilled. As a
result, construction activities were not only numerous and varied, but there was a significant difference in
the cost of construction from one donor to the next (see table 3.7 in annex 3). The capacity of planners at
the central and decentralized levels to conduct school mapping exercises, including through the use of a
global positioning system (GPS), has been strengthened. IDA supported these activities.




                                                      - 8 -

Physical environment of schools : The retrofitting of primary schools with latrines and wells,
rehabilitation, and maintenance activities did not show a significant improvement during the first phase of
QEFA. In 2005, only 59.2 percent of primary schools had latrines and 31.5 percent of primary schools
were without water. However, at the national level, 1316 classrooms had been rehabilitated during phase
1, along with 1032 four-latrine blocs and 519 administrative offices in primary (offices and storage). In
addition, wells and fences were built by various partners, but data collected on these were incomplete. IDA
contributed to the rehabilitation of 600 primary classrooms and to the construction of 432 latrines.

Neighborhood middle schools in rural areas : There was a delay in implementing the activities of the
subcomponent for developing the concept and implementing neighborhood middle schools in rural areas.
Neighborhood middle schools had opened in temporary or rented structures due to the lack of public funds
for the construction of the necessary facilities, despite the growing demand for school places. During the
first Phase of QEFA, about 622 classrooms were built at the middle school level, including 408 with
government financing. The concept of neighborhood middle schools in rural areas was finally developed in
2004 and the U.S. Agency for International Development contributed to the construction and equipment of
18 schools and the rehabilitation of 12 of them. Government built 67 other schools with public resources.
Yet all these construction programs were insufficient to cover the needs at the middle-school level; as a
result, some primary school construction funds were reallocated to build middle schools. IDA did not
finance any middle school construction.

Introducing multigrade teaching strategies: Multigrade classrooms management instruments were
developed as well as pre-service and in-service training modules. The pre-service training modules were
introduced in EFIs and helped train an average of 2,500 teachers per year. Regarding the in-service
activities, training modules were developed, trainers were educated and an evaluation test was conducted in
60 classrooms by IDENs in the five districts, notably Kaffrine, Tivaouane, Mbour, Bambey, and Diourbel.
IDA supported many of the training activities, and followed up with support for one-room schools which
were introduced in 2004.

Special needs education: Activities to strengthen the special needs education subcomponent, which was
supposed to be funded by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF), were not implemented. IDA did not have
any planned activities under this sub-component.

Increasing access to secondary general, technical, and professional education: To increase access to
this type of education, emphasis was put on the following outputs:

Constructing and rehabilitating classrooms and developing small-scale rural secondary schools: The
concept of small-scale rural secondary schools was not developed or implemented, as secondary schools
were generally built in urban areas. IDA did not finance any activities under this sub-component.

Improving technical and vocational training:(see discussion in component 2).

Increasing access to higher education: To increase access to higher education, emphasis was put on:

Creating a community college (CUR) network: The implementation of the CUR network was not
consistent with the program agreed upon under the PDEF, which had focused on the creation of a
professional higher education system with shorter courses taught by a more professional teaching corps.
Because of the shifts in Government Policy, the University of Cheikh Anta Diop (UCAD) in Dakar
continued to receive significant resources from the government budget, and the number of students at
UCAD almost doubled--from 24,776 students in 2000 to 45,500 students in 2005. The necessary capital


                                                       - 9 -

investments did not accompany this increase, however, and the allocation of scholarships to virtually every
university student crowded out any quality inputs necessary to maintain a minimum standard of instruction.
The vision of the CUR network has now shifted to be one of regionalized general universities, aimed
primarily at reducing the congestion (and related political volatility) of the main campus at UCAD. The
construction of two CURs (Bambey and Ziguinchor) has started but has not yet been completed, and the
Thiès Polytechnic School is being rehabilitated in order to transform it into a Thiès University Campus.
IDA did not finance these activities which were supported by Government resources.

Providing greater support for private higher education:. Enrollment in private higher education
institutions in Senegal has increased substantially-- from 7,733 students in 2002 to 15,082 students in
2005. Yet a reflection about expanding private higher education was not held. IDA supported only a few
activities aimed at facilitating the administrative work of the Ministry in this area.


B. Outputs Related to Component 2: Improving the Quality of Schooling (Rated Satisfactory)

The implementation of the quality component of QEFA was slow and excessively centralized;
consequently, the strategies were adjusted during implementation to address these problems.


                        Box 1. Centralized versus Deconcentrated Quality Improvement:
                              "Making QEFA Walk on its Feet instead of its Head"

 "QEFA, which is currently walking on its head, ought to be reversed to walk on its feet," said in 2003 some
administrators of the education system at the decentralized level. The philosophy guiding the components of the
project related to the quality of schooling was to proceed with experimentation during the phase 1 of QEFA, and
then following the evaluation of the pilots, to generalize the successful approaches during phase 2.

As it turned out, the central government level used its considerable resource to organize numerous workshops and
missions in the regions, nearly monopolizing the experimentation. Local actors without resources--school
inspection offices (inspection d'académie, IAs) and departmental education inspectorates (Inspections
départementales de l'education nationale, IDENs)--launched many initiatives on their own without taking into
consideration the plans and resources included in the QEFA. Some of the innovations that emerged at this level
included: (i) the establishment of Commissions of School Directors (Coordination des directeurs d'école,
CODECs) to compensate for the shortage of in-service trainers for school heads by setting up a peer network; (ii)
standardized exams to measure student achievement locally; and (iii) harmonized curricular goals to make up for
the outdated curricula in schools.

During the mid-term quality assessment in 2003, QEFA shifted the quality improvement focus from the central
government to lower levels, moving both responsibilities/accountability and resources down to those levels. On
the basis of quality improvement action plans prepared by IAs and IDENs with clear targets, resources were
transferred to them for the conduct of their activities. Furthermore, the school projects component, initially to be
tested in 400 schools, was expanded to 1,310 schools. The implementation of these two activities
(deconcentrated quality action plan and school projects) is considered the biggest success of QEFA in the eyes of
IAs, IDENs and communities met by the ICR mission, where their action research and experimentation efforts
turned into actions.


Improving the quality of basic education: To improve the quality of basic education, emphasis was put
on the following outputs.

Improving early childhood development (ECD) initiatives: Five integrated models for developing early
childhood programs including health, nutrition and psychosocial, and cognitive development had been
piloted and tested by the government during phase 1 of QEFA. A cost-effectiveness assessment was
conducted; however, the case des touts-petits model, though it was less cost-effective, is the preferred
model chosen by the government. This was mainly due to the fact that the initiative resulted from a



                                                              - 10 -

presidential decision. IDA supported these activities.

Implementing a school-based small grants program for primary and lower secondary school: The
implementation of this subcomponent is satisfactory. During the last year of the first phase, 1,310 primary
schools (of which 1,035 funded by IDA), and 60 lower and secondary schools (all IDA financed), received
a grant managed by school management committees (SMCs) for the development of their quality
improvement projects and the introduction of pedagogical innovations in their schools

Implementing Dakar periurban initiative:Appropriate architectural studies in Dakar characterized by a
high density of the population and a lack of available space for construction was done with AFD funding.
In addition, a specific program of construction and rehabilitation of schools with the participation of local
collectivities has been implemented as well as new strategies on quality management ensured by the IDENs.


Developing school/family reading initiative: This pilot had been tested in 36 schools within 11 IDEN and
evaluated by the National Institute of Studies and Action for the Development of Education (Institut
National d'Etudes et d'Action pour le Développement de l'Education, INEADE). Although the entire
local educational community was involved, the level of professional development for all stakeholders was
insufficient. In addition to French Cooperation, IDA supported these activities.

Introducing national languages for initial literacy training and transition to French: The introduction
of national languages is encountering some difficulties mainly due to the lack of institutional leadership and
financial support. The pilot program was initiated in October 2002 and was implemented in 155 first grade
(CI) classrooms. Another CI cohort of 155 classes was launched in 2004 in all 11 regions. The major
elements impeding the success of the pilot, as noted in a recent government evaluation report, included the
lack of the following: (i) professional development programs for teachers, specifically pertaining to the
methodology of teaching local languages as the medium of instruction and management of bilingual
approaches; (ii) monitoring and supervision; (iii) pedagogic materials and textbooks; and (iv) pedagogic
support. IDA supported these activities.

Developing a school textbook and reading materials loan program: This subcomponent was not
successfully implemented. The reprinting of textbooks for primary education occurred only in 2001 and
2002 under IDA financing and had not been followed up in subsequent years. Schools visited showed a
real shortage in textbooks, an important quality improvement input. The textbook management system did
not improve, either.

Increasing students' learning capacity through a school-based health and nutrition program: The
implementation of this subcomponent had been satisfactory. To set up adequate institutional arrangements
for a school health and nutrition program, the following had been undertaken: (i) the preparation of a policy
document in 2001; (ii) the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the Ministry of Education
and the Ministry of Health in 2002; (iii) the introduction of a school health kit and the set up of a strong
coordination unit; and (iv) the production of three guides for improving competencies in every day life in
school. A program to fight against iron deficiencies and parasites had been tested and evaluated in the
regions of Saint-Louis, Matam, and Tambacounda. Moreover, 248,044 students in Fatick, Tambacounda,
and Kaolack and 9,053 students in Matam had been dewormed. IDA supported these activities.

Providing special needs education: This subcomponent, supported by the Nordic Development Fund, was
not implemented within the planned time frame. The planned activities were not implemented and the
closing date of the credit was extended to end 2008.


                                                     - 11 -

Introducing special initiatives to reduce grade repetition and school dropout: The initiatives for
reducing repetition and dropouts had been taken into consideration only after the mid-term review through
the implementation of IAs and IDENs activities plans, the effectiveness of school projects and the
adjustments initiated after formative and standardized evaluations. Pedagogical measures were taken by
IDENs and CODECs) within the framework of the IDENs' plan of actions funded by IDA.

Improving adult basic education program: QEFA supported the enrollment of 417,000 individuals in
literacy courses (of which IDA financed 144,500) during the first phase (80 percent female), exceeding by
three times the anticipated target of 140,000. About 70 percent of the enrollees completed the full program
of 300 hours of instruction. While the enrollment target was satisfactory, the planned institutional reforms
were not achieved. The creation of a more cohesive program approach integrating the various freestanding
programs, especially the government-funded Intensive Literacy Program of Senegal (Programme
d'Alphabétisation Intensif du Senegal, PAIS), the ACDI-funded PAPA into the QEFA; and using a
common approach--a common procedures' manual, a single unit cost and a single management structure
for the overall program--did not materialize. The obstacle to reaching this objective can be attributed
mainly to the institutional instability in the subsector, with the frequent changes in the structure of the
ministry in charge of literacy and in the respective ministers. Most of the preparatory work required to
shift to a program approach was completed, but key decisions needed to move to the new approach were
never taken.

Assessment of students' learning: Assessment of students' learning improved considerably with the
leadership of teachers, IAs and IDENs as well as the expertise of INEADE in conducting national
assessments. Initially, the first phase focused on the role of centralized directorate in conducting learning
assessment to develop and test learning modules. However, this strategy was supplemented by new
initiatives driven from the grassroots levels and emphasizing the roles and responsibilities of IAs and
IDENs in proactively participating in learning assessments in their various districts. The following
activities have been supported by IDA: First, under the initiative of IDENs, assessments of students'
achievement were conducted in all regions through a decentralized and standardized approach. Second, the
establishment of 387 CODECs organized in homogeneous areas resulted in the reinforcement of close
pedagogical management in a context where there was a shortage of counselors. Third, the assessment of
the quality of learning in grades 2 and 5 of primary education conducted by INEADE in 2002 helped
monitor and piloted the quality component. Moreover, a learning assessment of grade 9 in French,
mathematics, life and earth science, and physics was administered in 2005. The results from that
assessment are not yet available.

Developing a unified teacher training strategy. Teacher education system in the pre-service teacher
training schools (EFI) was reformed. During the implementation of QEFA, teachers' pre-service training
was standardized across all EFIs. All teachers started as contractual employees (volontaires) and received
a six-month pre-service training course in the EFIs instead of the 45 days that used to be offered. The
higher level teacher training institution (the école normale supérieure, ENS) that is in charge of training
secondary schools teachers was not reformed. Contractual teachers were hired and directly sent to
classrooms. An accelerated training program provided them with some in-service training during
vacations. IDA supported these activities.

Improving the quality of general, technical and professional secondary level education: At the general,
technical and professional secondary level of education, emphasis was put on the following:

Establishing a textbook rental system and providing textbook choice. The activities of this


                                                      - 12 -

subcomponent supported by the Nordic Development Fund were not implemented. The activities started
only in 2005.

Implementing science education and technology development No strategy was developed for
coordinating the experimentation and implementation of activities for introducing science and new
technologies into the teaching of secondary education. Various initiatives were tested by independent
projects, such as World Links and Microsoft, to equip middle and high schools with computers without a
coherent program. These activities was not financed by IDA.

Strengthening vocational and technical education and training. The government prepared a policy
document for the development of technical and vocational education and training, the drafting and approval
of which took three years. However, traditional financing mechanisms were still used. The Government is
still having difficulties to shift from a classical financing mechanism to a more market oriented one. In line
with this policy document and with the support of IDA, a small vocational training support fund (the Fonds
de la formation professionnelle, FONDEF) was created. It was finally operational the last year of the
implementation, and disbursed aproximately $200,000 (105,000,000 CFAF) of the $450,000 initially
allocated under the IDA credit. It continues to finance training and refresher courses for private enterprise
employees and is managed by a Board. The initial agreement with IDA had been to ensure majority
representation of the private sector on that Board; unfortunately, the Board approved by the Minister is
composed of three union representatives, three employer associations' representatives and four government
officials. FONDEF is currently supported by the government, which annually provides a grant; private
companies contribute indirectly through the employment tax that they pay, and directly by assuming 15
percent of the training costs of their employees.

Improving the quality of higher education: Activities at the higher education level aimed at having a
contract between the government and the universities on the basis of performance indictors, unit costs, and
a transparent information system were not implemented. Overall, the government of Senegal's lack of
commitment was highlighted as revolving issues in this subsector that were already raised by the PAES
ICR.

C. Outputs Related to Component 3: Strengthening Capacity for Decentralized Management (Rated
Satisfactory)

Improving personnel management: A more efficient use of education personnel was the critical issue for
the education development program in Senegal. Considerable improvements were noted in terms of teacher
training, recruitment and career plan, with important agreements reached with unions regarding a controlled
expansion of the civil service positions in the sector. However, uneven teacher deployment, and the lack of
supervision to ensure that the majority of teachers intended to teach are actually present in class, impeded
the improvement of instructional quality.

A Department of Human Resources (DRH) has been operational since 2004, when the director was
finally appointed. A unified file for all teaching personnel has been developed with the support of the
Ministry of Education's Informatics Unit (Cellule Informatique du Ministère de l'Education, CIME), with
technical assistance from the French Cooperation and UNESCO/BREDA, and with financing from IDA.
Yet Senegal's education system continues to operate with three personnel databases (one each at the
Ministry of Civil Service, at the Ministry of Finance, Salary Directorate, and at the Ministry of Education).
This situation limits the country's efforts to rationalize personnel management in the education system.

A sustainable policy for training and recruiting teachers contributed to a significant increase in the



                                                       - 13 -

availability of sufficient teachers. The revision of the teacher management policy in 2000 contributed to
the sustainability of the management system of contractual teachers. This policy was based on the
development of career path for volontaires by (i) creating an intermediary teaching corps called maîtres
contractuels that all volontaires would automatically become after four years (this was negotiated down to
two years by unions in 2002); (ii) ensuring all primary teachers were recruited the same way--first as
volontaires, then as maîtres contractuels, with only a limited number each year having access to civil
service positions; (iii) providing an increased salary with social benefits. The training and recruitment of
teachers was conducted at the decentralized level (IAs/IDENs), thereby stabilizing the teaching force.
However, this dramatic increase in recruitment did not contributed to an equivalent increase in enrollments
because of inefficiencies in personnel management. Senegal trained and hired 2,800 contractual teachers (
volontaires) in 2004; however, the number of teachers in classrooms increased only by 1,407 despite the
fact that there were no official retirements. The policy of redeploying non-teaching staff into classrooms
was not efficiently implemented and more than 2,300 "ghost" teachers, unknown to the Ministry of
Education, were receiving salaries from the education budget which is still managed by the Ministry of
Finance.


Strengthening the deconcentrated planning: The deconcentration of Senegal's Ten-Year Education and
Training Development Program (PDEF) was strengthened in 2003. All 11 Regions and Departments,
respectively, prepared their comprehensive regional plans (PRDEs) and departmental plans (PDDEs) for
the development of education. On the basis of these PRDEs and PDDEs of 2003­2005, an education
quality improvement action plan and a quarterly budget were developed for each departmental education
inspectorate (IDEN) and school inspection office (IA). IDA resources were used to implement these action
plans by directly transferring resources to these structures, which benefited from the recruitment of
financial personnel. The implementation of these quality action plans is one of the greatest achievements of
deconcentrated structures of the first phase of the QEFA.

Improving community participation: School management committees (SMCs) enabled communities to
participate in local school management through the school projects. With the exception of this bottom-up
activity, communication had been the weakest link in the implementation of the first Phase of QEFA.
Because of a very centralized management system and a lack of a coherent and practical communication
strategy, the objectives and strategies of the QEFA were misunderstood by the population and even certain
actors at the regional level. This situation improved by the end of 2003 when the management of quality
action plans was decentralized.

Policy monitoring and program evaluation: This subcomponent, which aimed at creating capacity
within the Ministry of Education at the central, regional, and local levels to analyze policy issues and to
evaluate and monitor the education program on a yearly basis, was not implemented in a satisfactory
manner. However, the outsourcing of the program performance monitoring position with the use of the
Center for Applied Economic Research (Centre de Recherche en Economie Appliquée, CREA) at UCAD
ensured systematic and high-quality annual monitoring and evaluation of the entire education system. This
partnership between the Ministry of Education and the CREA was a successful innovation in the first
phase.

Improving management of financial flows and physical investments: The execution of the financial
management component was the driving force of the program. This was translated into: (i) strengthening
of the budget preparation process with the elaboration of a medium-term expenditure framework and a
program budget at the central level and at the level of each region and department consistent with the
objectives of the QEFA; (ii) capacity building for the procurement function through local technical
assistance, which helped provide quality training of administrative personnel; (iii) hiring of a qualified


                                                      - 14 -

financial management specialist; and (iv) developing of financial management capacities at IA level where
regional accountants were recruited to ensure successful financial decentralization. The monitoring of
budget allocations was conducted by CREA.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, economic and financial assessments were conducted through a cost-effectiveness analysis of
the project. The economic rate of return was estimated but the methodology and data used for this analysis
were not apparent. At present, the economic rate of return cannot be updated, because data on population
incomes were not collected during Senegal's last government household survey in 2002 (Enquête
Sénégalaise Auprès des Ménages 2, ESAM2). The most recent data are those from prior survey, ESAM1,
conducted in 1995. However, a cost-effectiveness analysis has been conducted in annex 3.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
(Rated Substantial)

The first Phase of QEFA allowed the strengthening of the education sector's institutional capacity. Unlike
the previous projects--the second Project for the Development of Human Resources (PDRH2), the Higher
Development Education Project (PAES), the Female Literacy Project (PAPF)--that used project
implementation/coordination units outside the Ministry of Education, the first phase of QEFA used the
Ministry directorates to implement the program. Institutional development outcomes are illustrated by the
following:
(i)     The government of Senegal's planning and implementation of the Ten-Year Education and
Training Development Program (PDEF) generated a policy and programmatic vision for the education
sector including the development objectives and resources for 10 years. By the same token, the 11 regions
of the country and their departments, respectively, prepared regional plans (PRDEs) and departmental
plans (PDDEs) for the development of education that guided their actions in the sector. Education
planners were trained; and computer and financial management specialists were hired through a competitive
process in each IA. This permitted IAs to have full capacities in planning and implementing programs. As
a complementary measure, the Ministry of Education contributed to building capacities in terms of school
mapping and georeferencing of all villages, cities, and primary and secondary schools.

(ii)    The capacity of the Department of General Administration and Equipment (DAGE) was
strengthened during the first Phase of QEFA in order to ensure an efficient management of budget
resources. This reform of the financial management system was illustrated by the budget preparation
reforms that moved from the traditional system to one based on the medium-term expenditure framework,
covering three years and setting up a budget by objectives.

(iii)   Thanks to the involvement of the Center for Applied Economic Research (CREA), UCAD,
competencies were developed in the economics of education. CREA contributed to the preparation of
QEFA by producing a public expenditure review of the education sector and by conducting other studies on
the cost-effectiveness of secondary education. It also helped the Ministry of Education design a simulation
model. During the implementation of the first Phase of QEFA, it contributed to the monitoring by
producing an annual technical, economic and financial analysis report on the PDEF, which was used as the
basis for policy discussions between the government, donors, unions, other actors and the civil society.
This partnership between the university and the Ministry of Education has been supported by the World
Bank.



                                                    - 15 -

(iv)     QEFA also supported the creation and mainstreaming of the mechanism for the cost-efficient
management of teachers, particularly of contractual teachers known as volontaires and an intermediate
teaching corps known as maîtres contractuels.The program helped stabilize the decentralized recruitment
strategy and developed a career path for these teachers who, at the beginning, were supposed to teach only
for two years with a fixed-term contract that could be renewed only once. At present, this category of
teaching personnel constitutes one of the major positive outcomes of the program.

(v)      The Ministry of Education's Informatics Unit (CIME) contributed to the modernization of both
data and information management and communications of the education system. All central, regional, and
departmental structures have access to broadband lines and share the same management software. All
schools in the country are included in a rich database that has detailed information with regard to school
and staff characteristics. Personnel migrations have become more transparent through the coordination
between the Department of Human Resources (DRH) and CIME. This tool has significantly contributed to
data collection and analysis at the regional level. In addition, a Web site has been created and is regularly
updated.

(vii)    The implementation of QEFA permitted a more transparent dialogue between unions and the
government. QEFA, contrary to previous projects, did not simply focus on investment aspects. During
various reviews, the sharing of sectoral studies permitted different stakeholders to share the same
information and have opportunities for frank discussions that enlightened the debate.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The lack of coordination between the interventions of various donors was the most important factor
affecting project implementation and outcomes outside the control of the government of Senegal. Despite
the official adoption of a program approach with specific objectives, indicators, and monitoring
mechanisms shared with all actors, there was no consensus regarding the management mechanisms.
Traditional projects have been maintained by the Ministry of Education with no flexibility, which did not
allow the government to be able to prepare programmatic budgets in compliance with the needs of the
country's education sector. This also posed a major difficulty for the government in obtaining timely
consolidated figures for program implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Implicit modification of the government's education priorities: After the newly elected government of
Senegal came into power in March 2000, it announced new priorities for education, focusing primarily on
pre-school education, generalized scholarships for all university students, and support for mass literacy
(initially announced to cover 2 million adults per year). This announcement was made without rejecting or
officially confirming the primary objective of the first phase of QEFA, which was to achieve universal
primary education. This ambiguous situation put the Ministry of Education in a wait-and-see position
between 2001 and 2002, caught between, on one hand, external donors that were supporting education for
all at the primary level; and on the other hand the mixed signals from political authorities that were
announcing other priorities.

Instability within the Educational Planning and Reform Department (Direction de la Planification et
de la Réforme de l'Education, DPRE): Immediately after the effectiveness of QEFA in October 2000,
important changes occurred within the DPRE management team. The majority of its most senior
administrators (including the director, the deputy, the head of planning, the head of monitoring and



                                                     - 16 -

evaluation, and two highly qualified technicians) who had participated in the conceptualization of the
program and who had acquired significant experiences during the preparation left the directorate. This
situation had a tremendous effect on the performance of the program, because much of the learning that had
taken place was lost.

Steering committee for QEFA: The steering committee for QEFA--the high-level Council for Education
and Training (CONSEF)--did not take action when problems surfaced. CONSEF, which should have
been chaired by the Minister of Education twice a year, and which should have approved the annual budget
and implementation reports for QEFA was not operational. This situation was exacerbated by an
administrative order that specified that the CONSEF would be chaired by the Prime Minister, making its
regular meetings even more difficult. CONSEF's situation was identical to that of the National Committee
for Coordination and Monitoring (Comité National de Coordination et du Suivi, CNCS). CNCS should
have met twice a month under the leadership of the director of DPRE to monitor the day-to-day
implementation of QEFA and to discuss critical issues regarding the development of the sector; however,
its role was changed and the same administrative order that specified that the Prime Minister would chair
CONCEF also appointed the Minister of Education as the chairman of CNCS.

The regional coordination structures that should have brought together key stakeholders actors at the
grassroots level, including local officials, to share QEFA objectives and to monitor and evaluate
implementation at the local level rarely took place. Conflicts arose between local government
representatives, notably the presidents of regional council, mayors and presidents of rural council, as there
is no hierarchical relationship between these levels. The same administrative order mentioned above
appointed the president of regional council, the mayor of the departmental commune, and the president of
the rural council as chairmen of the regional, departmental, and local councils, respectively.

IDA drew the attention of the government of Senegal to these changes, which it considered to be too
top-heavy to be operational and not compliant with the agreement signed between IDA and the government.
Moreover, IDA believed that these changes could be major impediments to the implementation of QEFA
activities. Despite these observations, the administrative order continued to be effective and the
coordination of the program worsened. At the regional and local levels, the lack of a clear hierarchical
relationship between the various local governments made it impossible for the chairman to summon other
local authorities to meetings.

In conclusion, however, as discussed in Section 3.5, the real cause of the management challenges was that
sectoral coordination, be it at the Cabinet, central or regional levels, was dysfunctional. It is hoped that the
second phase of QEFA will improve the situation.

Intrasectoral budget allocations: Although the total resources allocated to the education sector by the
government of Senegal--roughly one-third of the government's recurrent budget, excluding debt
service--were significant and sustainable, the share allocated to primary education--estimated at 38
percent in 2001 and 2002 (against a target of 44 percent)--remained below the level needed to achieve the
sector objectives. A strong policy dialogue conducted by IDA was able to correct this situation in 2003.
The share of the government's primary education recurrent budget was finally established at 42 percent in
2004 and grew to 45.04 percent in 2005. However, because the Bank had an indicator of 44 percent of the
recurrent budget allocated to primary education, everyone focussed on the 44 percent as a " conditionality"
rather than what was meant which was to have an indictor of improvement in the efficient allocation of
resources. In fact, resources allocated to middle school declined. This bias against middle school to
university can be considered as a factor against the access to post primary education for the poorest
populations.


                                                      - 17 -

Inefficiency in using personnel resources: The redeployment decisions made about teachers who were
not in classrooms created a shortage in needy regions and an excess of teachers in the most attractive
regions. Moreover, a significant number of "ghost" teachers (more than 2,300) are still on the Ministry of
Education payroll. These situations deeply impeded the development of the system, especially in poor
areas.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Difficult relationship between the coordination and executing directorates: The implementation of
activities during the first phase suffered from conflicts between the coordination directorate that is, the
Education Planning and Reform Department (DPRE) and the executing directorates that are, the Primary
School Department (DEE), Middle and Secondary School Department (DEMSG), and the National
Institute of Studies and Action for the Development of Education (INEADE). DPRE, the coordination
directorate, thought that the executing directorates challenged its authority and decisions, while the latter
maintained that DPRE tried to concentrate all decision making power at its level. The decisions by the
DPRE that were not acceptable to executing directorates constituted major impediments to implementation.


Delays in pilots and innovations: Many innovations that should have been piloted were delayed,
particularly those related to the introduction of national languages, which suffered from a lack of resources
to be allocated by the Ministry of Education. The experimental classes, for example, operated without
textbooks.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total cost of the first phase of QEFA was estimated at US$926 million at the time of the project
appraisal, and this was revised upwards by the ICR mission at US$ 1,791.69 million (see Annex 2). The
contribution from each financier is summarized in the Table 3 below. All of these resources were in the
form of parallel financing.
 T a b l e 3 : F i n a n c i n g p l a n o f Q E F A I ( m i l l i o n s U S D )
                                                                                    A p p r a i s a l e s t i m a t e ( P A D )            I C R e s t i m ated
 S o u r c e
                                                                                    A m o u n t            % o f t o t a l         A m o u n t            % o f t o t a l
 G o v e r n m e n t                                                                       7 8 8                      8 5 . 1 0 %       1 6 2 7 . 0                  9 0 . 8 %
 I D A                                                                                        5 0                       5 . 4 0 %         5 1 . 4 5                    2.9%
 Co-financiers                                                                                8 8                       9 . 5 0 %         113.2                        6.3%
   A g e n c e F r a n c a i s e d e d e v e l o p p e m e n t                                1 2                       1 . 3 0 %           16.7                       0.9%
   A f i c a n D e v e l o p m e n t B a n k                                            1 6 . 7 2                       1 . 8 1 %           22.9                       1.3%
   C a n a d i a n I n t e r n a t i o n a l D e v e l o p m e n t A g e n c y            20.3                          2 . 1 9 %           24.4                       1.4%
   F o n d s d ' A i d e e t d e C o o p e r a t i o n                                      1.8                         0 . 1 9 %             2.3                      0.1%
   Islam i c D e v e l o p m e n t B a n k                                                10.7                          1 . 1 6 %           14.5                       0.8%
   N o r d i c d e v e l o p m e n t F u n d                                              6 . 8 5                       0 . 7 4 %             9.0                      0.5%
   O P E C F u n d                                                                          3.9                         0 . 4 2 %             5.8                      0.3%
   O t h e r                                                                            1 5 . 7 3                       1 . 7 0 %           17.6                       1.0%
       C h i n a / T a i w a n                                                                                                                7.2                      0.4%
       U S A I D                                                                                                                              6.6                      0.4%
       J a p o n                                                                                                                              1.0                      0.1%
       L u x e m b o u r g                                                                                                                    2.7                      0.2%
 T o t a l                                                                             926.0                         1 0 0 . 0 %     1 7 9 1 . 6 9               1 0 0 . 0 %



By the end of 2002, three years after its effectiveness, only about 32 percent of the credit had been
disbursed. The reasons were linked to the wait-and-see situation described above. Thus, the government of
Senegal requested the extension of the closing date to December 31, 2005. This extension resulted in the
increase in financing of the national budget that had been estimated in the project appraisal document at
US$788 million to be re-estimated during the ICR to US$1,627 million. The increase in IDA amount is
primarily due to changes in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the special drawing rights (SDRs).
Overall, the first Phase of QEFA did not suffer from a lack of resources. A Cost-Effectiveness analysis in



                                                                                   - 18 -

annex 3 provides more details about expenditures and results. It shows that : (i) salaries represented 71
percent of total Government recurrent expenditures while transfers (ie. scholarship, and others social
activities in notably at the higher education level) represented 24 percent and only 5 percent are used to
purchase other services such as quality inputs, (ii) external donors financed 49 percent of the quality
inputs; and (iii) investments represented 8.4 percent of total Government's expenditures and 38 percent of
total investment expenditures.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The results of the first phase of QEFA in Senegal's education sector are judged likely to be sustainable.

Government's commitment to universal primary education: The current government of Senegal remains
committed to the achievement of universal primary education, despite hesitations observed during 2001 and
2002. The government has developed a clear vision with regard to its development objectives for the
education sector. All key actors share a common vision and objectives, and monitoring mechanisms, as
articulated in the Letter of Sectoral Policy, even if their procedures are different. Phase 1 of QEFA
supported the government's education policy that, for the first time, developed a sectoral program and
implemented it over five years. Lessons learned from this shift from a project to a program approach did
not occur without difficulties, as it called for necessary adjustments to the new ways of doing business by
both donors and government officials.

Improved effectiveness of institutional management: The implementation of phase 1 of QEFA permitted
the improvement of internal competencies within central directorates and departments and proved that these
structures possessed the capacity to monitor the implementation without extensive, long-term technical
assistance. These structures included: (i) the Department of General Administration and Equipment
(DAGE), which developed internal capacities in budgeting, financial management and procurement; (ii) the
Department of Human Resources (DRH), which is starting to implement an efficient program in human
resources management; (iii) school inspection offices/departmental education inspectorates (IAs/IDENs),
which acquired capacities in planning, computer use and financial management; (iv) the Ministry of
Education's Informatics Unit (CIME), which after being reinforced by a French technical assistant has
developed its own, and the Ministry's, human resources

Economic and financial viability of education sector development: The government of Senegal financed
91 percent of the first Phase of QEFA through domestic resources, with the interventions of the 11 donors
estimated at 9 percent from 2000­2005. The domestic effort, equaling approximately 33 percent of the
budget per year during the period, represented 4.9 percent of Senegal's gross domestic product (GDP) in
2005. (By comparison, the highest performing countries in the region spent on average only 3.8 percent of
GDP on education.) Senegal's average economic growth rate of 5 percent over the past five years should
have enabled government to address the main needs of the education system. The same economic prospects
are expected for the 2006-2009 period. Because of the inefficiency in using personnel resources and the
situation in the higher education level out of control as discussed in point 5.2 above (Factors Generally
Subject to Government Control), however, the government's high budgetary allocation to the education
sector might not be sustainable. Simply put, the government of Senegal has not been able to translate its
considerable resources into concrete results in both access and quality.

Donors contribution: Donors are committed to continue their support to the education and training sector,
especially through the second phase of the program (2006-2008), the formulation of which is nearing
completion. Therefore, IDA plans to continue with the APL instrument, but aims to introduce flexibility in



                                                      - 19 -

the capacity building activities by joining with other donors, most notably AFD, on a pooled capacity
building fund. Some of them, such as Canada and France have decided to contribute through sector budget
support. In addition, the different partners cushioned Senegal to become endorsed under the Fast Track
Initiative (FTI). This new initiative could accelerate the country's success for achieving the MDGs on time,
not only by bringing in additional resources but also by reinforcing the dialogue for improving the
efficiency of their utilization.

Local participation: On the one hand, grassroots populations through their SMCs received grants from
the IDA credit and the African Development Bank and did effectively contribute to the implementation of
school projects. All schools did establish SMCs. On the other hand, local governments (or collectivités
locales) did not participate enough in the management of the PDEF.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The institutional arrangements for a smooth transition to second phase of QEFA in Senegal are
already in place. QEFA is a sector-wide program supporting PDEF. The first phase of QEFA was
implemented through existing structures of the Ministry of Education. The institutional capacities of
Senegal's education sector were strengthened, and the activities supported by the IDA could be effectively
implemented after the end of the project. In addition, the education sector continues to be a high
government priority and is well funded, commanding one-third of the government's recurrent expenditures
in 2005, and representing 91 percent of total education expenditures during the last five years.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of the IDA during the preparation of QEFA was Moderately Satisfactory: QEFA
was designed after PDEF, which started in March 1998 with a large participation of governmental
decision-makers at the central level and other technical and financial partners during the preparation
process, which resulted in better ownership of the program by the government prior to the elections (and the
arrival of a new government). The identification mission was jointly conducted with the Canadian
International Development Agency, French Cooperation, United Nations Development Program, UNICEF,
UNESCO, the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), and KFW. Other technical and financial
partners joined in later on. Also all donors' community were involved in the appraisal. AFD, NDF and
CIDA participated in the negotiations. This process provided a framework for the preparation for other
donors' projects. IDA was able to support the government in the designing of a sector-wide program--a
first in the education sector in Senegal and one of the first in the World Bank. During appraisal, very
detailed assessments and plans to build national capacity were carried out in the area of procurement and
financial management. As a result, the QEFA was able to perform on fiduciary aspects.

The Bank supported the government in doing a public expenditures review, as well as other economic
and qualitative studies of the education sector: These studies, shared and discussed with the government
and other stakeholders, served as the basis for policy dialogue and reflection during the preparation phase.
These discussions resulted in generating clear objectives and appropriate strategies acceptable to
government, stakeholders, and other donors.

The lending instrument selected for the first phase of QEFA was an adaptable program loan. This
instrument was considered the most appropriate from the start of the program preparation, given the
10-year time frame and the need for policy reforms and program decisions at several stages well beyond
program start-up. A sector expenditure program approach requires that the policy and investment program
cover the entire sector from the start. In the case of QEFA, although a broad policy framework has been


                                                     - 20 -

defined for the sector, it was decided that the investment program would be carried out in phases, starting
with primary and secondary education, early childhood development and literacy, to be followed by
vocational and technical education and higher education in the second phase.

It should be noted, however, that the preparation of the first phase of the project was not conducted in
a participatory manner with local stakeholders such as IAs and IDENs (which discovered QEFA during
its implementation phase), and it was only in 2003 that adjustments were made to take the preoccupations
of local stakeholders into account. Moreover, the readiness for implementation was not quite established
until seven months after the board's approval. The main difficulty was the completion of the manual of
procedures, which was one of the effectiveness conditions. Furthermore, as mentioned in point 3.5 above
(Quality at Entry), the negotiation of QEFA one week before Senegal's national elections was not
appropriate.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision of the project is rated satisfactory: During 2001 and 2002, when the project showed
some possibility for achieving its development objective but had begun to experience some problems related
to low financing of the primary sector and the increase of inefficiencies, a sustainable policy dialogue
between IDA and government allowed room for adjustments by end 2002. Thus, IDA showed flexibility in
the design of the project by positively responding to the demand of the government and supporting the
deconcentrated departments. During the mid-term review that followed the evaluation workshop on the
quality of the system, IAs and IDENs were given more responsibilities and resources to implement their
activities.

The IDA team was active all through the discussions during joint donor supervision missions,
providing comments on policy documents submitted and providing advice to the government. It also
supported the government in specific areas such as the preparation of learning assessments and the
medium-term expenditure framework. Yet the IDA team did not ensure satisfactory supervision of the
textbook component of the project, and the lack of textbooks continues to be a challenge in the sector.
Regarding this specific topic, IDA agreed with the Government to have an indicator of 3 textbooks per
child. However, the bank supervision missions did not properly assess the textbooks component and ensure
that necessary resources were available to provide sufficient textbooks to children.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The performance of IDA with respect to the first phase of QEFA in Senegal is rated satisfactory overall.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The government of Senegal's performance during the project preparation phase is rated Satisfactory:
The government showed a strong commitment in developing a coherent sectoral approach to expand access
to basic education. At the beginning of the preparation, and with a weak capacity of the coordination team
within the DPRE, the government hired a new DPRE director, who put together a strong team that led the
preparation of QEFA. This team produced a significant number of technical and sectoral strategic
documents based on (i) the public expenditure review of the education sector and other economic analyses
conducted by CREA; (ii) evaluations conducted by INEADE; and (iii) numerous consultations with
development partners. These documents contributed to the preparation of the letter of sectoral policy and
PDEF that were later used in preparing QEFA. Unfortunately, the preparation was very centralized and
the involvement of deconcentrated structures was not significant.



                                                     - 21 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the government of Senegal during the implementation of QEFA is rated
Moderately Satisfactory because of the inconsistency mentioned above--the government's great
commitment to QEFA shown during the preparation did not continue in the 2001­2002 period (see
discussion in Quality at entry section).

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of Senegal's implementing agency, the Ministry of Education, was rated Moderately
Unsatisfactory based on the following:

Financial management and procurement was a strength of QEFA. The MOE performed well
on fiduciary aspects. There were no serious issues related to governance in the sector; in fact, the financial
management team within the Ministry of Education is recognized as being one of the best performers in the
country, providing technical assistance to other sectors on demand. Resources transferred to deconcentrated
level and schools have been managed according to Bank standards and were used with economy and
efficiency. As a result, the other donors including the French Cooperation and the Canadian have expressed
their interest in joining a pool for funding of the second phase. On procurement, too, the capacity building
provided under QEFA strengthened the capability of the MOE. In addition, the performances of AGETIP
in supporting the logistics of implementing the literacy programs and the production of economic and
financial reports with the support of CREA contributed to the policy dialogue during the entire
implementation period of QEFA.

The weaknesses were related to the following: (i) the delays in the decision-making process (for example,
the appointment of a director of the Department of Human Resources (DRH) took two years despite the
official creation of the directorate, and the appointment and effective functioning of the secretaire-général
position took almost as long; (ii) the non operation of QEFA coordination entities such as the CONSEF,
CNCS, and CRCS that could not meet on a regular basis; (iii) the budget allocation and the deficient
management of the textbook subcomponent of the project, (iv) an underfinancing of the middle education
subsector with only 8.4 percent of recurrent expenditures in 2005 against 13.2 percent in 2000; (v) the lack
of transparency in allocating expenditures to the higher education, where some expenditures, notably those
related to scholarship were not mentioned in the Ministry of Education's budget, however in a common
chapter managed by the Ministry of Economy and Finances--this particular situation has been corrected
through 2004 budget, but the issue remains still of great importance; and (vi) the lack of decision regarding
the inefficiency in using teaching personnel characterized by a large number of staff (including paid
"ghost" teachers) without a pertinent position.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
In reference to the elements discussed above, the overall performance of the borrower, the government of
Senegal, with respect to the first phase of QEFA is rated Moderately satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Harmonization of donors' procedures is an important condition for the successful implementation of a
sector-wide program (SWAp). Such a program provides flexibility in the use and allocation of resources
and is helpful for the government to prepare coherent annual budgets with specific and clear objectives. Yet
whether on the governments or the donors' part, however, significant changes in behavior such as those that
may result from a SWAp, do not happen overnight.

The government's commitment is essential for the implementation of an education sector program such as


                                                      - 22 -

QEFA, which includes not just investment activities but also measures to be undertaken in managing the
education policies. The importance of government commitment, which was confirmed during the first
Phase of QEFA when program outcomes were strongly correlated to government's commitment level, is a
key lesson to bear in mind as the second phase of QEFA is prepared. The second phase is being prepared
right before the next presidential elections in Senegal and may therefore face some of the same challenges
as the first Phase of QEFA.

Difficulties to implement adequate reforms in higher education remain. The Bank is still having
difficulties to implement successful reform in higher education in Senegal. In addition to the failure of
PAES reforms, activities implemented during the first Phase of QEFA were not conclusive. In the Region,
the Bank tried to implement the same strategies in other francophone countries. A strategic reflection is
needed both at the Bank and at the Government to address other ways of doing business about this
politically sensitive sub-sector.

The implementation of a SWAp requires flexibility. It is extremely difficult to have a precise planning of
an entire sector, especially in a context where the information system is weak. For that reason, it is
necessary to anticipate adjustments during the implementation and ensure timely mid-course corrections to
take into account changing circumstances.

Using government structure and capacity building: The program was implemented fully through
Government's departments, which has resulted in considerably strengthening ownership during the
implementation of the program and also allowing the education sector to develop strong capacities, notably
in fiduciary management at the central and deconcentrated levels. To date, there are certain civil servants of
MoE who are able to provide technical assistance to other World Bank projects in this area. This situation
slightly contrasts with projects prior to QEFA. The second phase of QEFA must build on this experience.

Management and coordination arrangements: The implementation of the first phase of QEFA suffered
from conflicts between DPRE in charge of the coordination and education directorates because of a lack of
clearly hierarchical relationship established between them. The manual of procedures (like those used by
classical Bank projects) that defines the procedures became inadequate. Public administrators give more
importance to administrative orders. Regarding the manual of procedures of the first Phase of QEFA, not
only was it heavy to be easily used because of its volume (its finalization took 7 months), but also the civil
servants who were supposed to ensure its application, preferred to use related administrative orders and
laws than the prescriptions of this type of document. During the second phase, regulatory measures
outlining respective responsibilities of different department and clear mechanisms of decision-making
including the Minister or the Secretaire Général can replace the section of the manual that emphasizes the
relationship between different departments.

Partnership with domestic universities: Outsourcing to national research institutions can help enhance
monitoring and evaluation and curtail shortcomings in classical State entities, which often do not possess
analytical capabilities. The Partnership between the MOE and CREA to conduct economic analyses and
financial tracking studies was a successful innovation. That partnership enabled to reinforce competencies
of the universities in terms of conducting studies and research but also provided the Government with
important and timely advice on the implementation of its program.

Block grants to school and transfer of resources to implementers in the field can improve the
performance of the program. These transfers permitted administrative directorates and schools to be in
charge of their own activities and to finance quality inputs. In addition of performances of results, the
management of these resources has been conducted in a more transparent manner involving beneficiaries


                                                      - 23 -

and strengthening accountability.

More attention to particular areas of concern, such as the financing of textbooks, should be given
priority. Despite the lessons learned from PDRH2 ICR, there was no significant progress in the
implementation of the textbooks' component. It is hoped, therefore, that the same mistake will not be
repeated in the second phase of QEFA.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Details of Government's evaluation of the first phase of QEFA are described in Annex 8. Following are
some of the messages.
The Government asserted that its performance during the implementation of the first phase was
satisfactory mainly because it respected its financial commitments, and the resources were allocated in a
timely manner. This resulted in the achievement of access objectives. They recognized that the quality
component did not have all the expected results.

The Government appreciated the World Bank's presence during the entire implementation period of
the first phase. Thus, they appreciated: (i) the active involvement of the Bank in all supervision missions
and the provision of technical assistance by sending consultants and experts in all sectors of the education
system and; (ii) the decentralization of responsibilities and decisions to the country office. However, some
delays were observed during the implementation of some activities, which were mainly due to long delays in
obtaining no objections.

They made the following comments about the implementation of the first phase : (i) centralization of
the planning system that gave more priorities to central directorates and departments and almost neglected
the participation of stakeholders at the deconcentrated and decentralized levels in the decision-making
process; (ii) lack of close communication strategy during the preparation, which should aim at teachers,
communities and unions; (iii) less emphasis on quality improvement activities that should have started at
the beginning of the school year in order to better optimize the impact on students' achievements; (iv)
centralization of the strategy of expanding access to education on supply than addressing demand issues
while almost failing to take into account the needs of the communities and the market; (v) in addition to
little emphasis on quality improvement, the sustainability of expected results was compromised. Moreover,
they recommended the maintenance of the current expenditure allocation policy of the sector with an
increase in the efficiency of expenditures in terms of education and improvement of tracking of
expenditures. All these issues must be addressed during the second phase.

They recommended that the World Bank: (i) reduce the time in the processing of procurement
documents and shorten the time for obtaining no objections; (ii) accelerate the evaluation process of the
program and the triggering of the second phase; (iii) provide a clear and unambiguous message about
annual programs; and (iv) further extend supervision missions to the deconcentrated level.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Technical and Financial Partners (TFP) have globally welcomed the noteworthy progress made in
schooling during the QEFA. However, they suggest that special emphasis be placed on lessons drawn from
different reports which deserve utmost consideration during the second phase. First, the outstanding
performance of schooling in primary education was indeed accompanied by a real reduction in inequities
between girls' and boys' enrollment, but strong disparities still exist between regions. Second, the progress
made in access to education did not go with an increased efficiency of the system since the completion rate
at the end of the primary cycle remains about 53%. As one of the goals of PDEF is to achieve a primary



                                                      - 24 -

completion rate of 85% in 2010, significant efforts must be made over the next five years to increase this
rate. Third, the very high number of enrollments recorded recently did not result in a balanced increase
between the number of teachers and that of students, despite the low number of retirements. Additionally,
measures to keep teachers in poor and rural areas accompanied with adequate resources and incentives still
need to be clarified. Fourth, the TFP are nonetheless satisfied with the important reforms carried out since
the appointment of the DRH to better deal with the management and deployment of teachers and to keep
them in schools. Fifth, although considerable progress has been made indeed in enrollment at the primary
education level, particularly with girls, this substantial improvement did not resolve the problem of actual
deterioration of the quality of teaching and learning. The TFP did not however note significant progress in
the improvement of the quality and conditions of implementation. Finally, scholarships, notably at the
higher education level, still continue to be a source of inefficiency in the funding of the educational system
and a forum involving all the stakeholders must be conducted in order to determine awarding criteria.

The TFP expressed concern with the unsatisfactory functioning of management mechanism of the PDEF
both at centralized and decentralized levels, and subsequently, with the lack of coordination in
decision-making between the agencies involved in the management of the program. The TFP wish that the
roles and responsibilities of the various actors at the centralized and decentralized levels be clarified. They
also recommend greater emphasis on the improvement in the validity of statistical data for a comprehensive
appreciation of the program's key indicators.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

There is no additional information.




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Gross primary enrollment rate                    75%                                         82.5%

Grade One admission rate (of total school        80%                                         91.5%
age population)

The percentage of primary students who are 46%                                               48.6%
girls

Percentage of children aged 3 to 5 in ECD        1%                                          6.8%
centers.

2% annual increase in national student           baseline 1996 : i) Success rate in French   2002 : i) Success rate in French 50.9% ii)
achievement scores compared to                   44.3% ii) Success rate in Maths 44.4%       Success rate in Maths 56.2%
existing baseline in math for Gr. 4

Reduction of repetition rate as a result of      10%                                         12.4%
program initiatives

Implementation of 20 hours teaching week as 20 h                                             17.7 h
norm for middle and secondary school
teachers

Increase in the percentage of students           80%                                         74.3%
attending primary schools offering a complete
six-year cycle

Reduction by 25% of the number of classes        25%                                         The percentage of classes that fall ouside the
that fall outside the minimum (<30) and                                                      minimum and maximum norms class size
maximum (>50) norms for class size                                                           passed from 64% (2001) to 54% (2005).

Provision of literacy sessions to 120,000        120,000                                     417,000
individuals aged 15 through 49,
.......of whom female are :                      75%                                         89.6%

Percentage of the Ministry of Education          44%                                         45.04%
expenditures for primary school


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1,000 classrooms to be built under the IDA       1,000 under IDA credit and 5,000 additional 1000 under IDA and 9,214 from Government
credit, with an additional 5,000 to be built     from Government and other sources.          and others sources
from Government and other sources under
the first phase.


Implementation and financing of maintenance      Not available                               Not executed
program by local municipalities
covering at least 80% of the 6,000 primary
school classrooms to be built


1,800 primary school classrooms renovated, 1,800 classrooms renovated ;                      1,316 classrooms renovated ;
wells installed for 570 schools and latrines for wells for 570 schools ;                     latrines for 1032 schools; wells for schools
1,080 schools                                    latrines for 1080 schools.                  Not available;


258 middle school classrooms built, of which     258                                         439
at least 50% are neighborhood (rural) middle
schools




                                                                    - 26 -

Multigrade teacher training modules designed  5                                        5
and implemented in 5 regions


30 neighborhood secondary school classes      30                                       Not available
built and 165 additional secondary school
classes renovated


Demand-driven training programs               $450,000                                 One (1) year : $200,000
implemented, with an annual disbursement of
$150,000 by the Vocational Training Fund


10 schools in each IDEN have classroom        10                                       Not available.
libraries with at least 20 reading books.


80% of primary schools in 3 IA have           80%                                      All schools prepared school improvement
prepared school improvement plans, with 400                                            plans and 1310 schools received grants
primary schools having implemented school
improvement programs financed through
small grants.


80% of middle and secondary schools in 10     80%                                      100%
IA have prepared school improvement plans,
with 150 middle and secondary schools
having implemented school improvement
programs financed through small grants


80% of children in pilot schools utilize      80%                                      not available
classroom library resources for reading
instruction on a daily basis


At least 400 classrooms covering 6            400                                      6 national languages are implemented in 400
languages adopt curricular plans and                                                   classrooms
materials in national languages.


Pre-service training will be provided for 2   2500 per year                            at least 2500 per year (3463 in 2005)
cohorts of 1,250 teachers annually at the EFI.


Increase in percentage of MEN recurrent       44%.                                     45.04%. Unfortunately, only 5% were
budget going to primary school with                                                    allocated to quality inputs
increased amount for per student
expenditures for quality improvement


Creation of one ECD center by at least 180    180 in 5 regions                         971 Centers in all regions
communities in 5 regions.



Training of 450 ECD monitors.                 450                                      Pre service (270 monitors) ; In service (500
                                                                                       monitors)


Each child receives three textbooks on loan   3 textbooks/student in primary           1.9 texbooks/ student in primary
from school each year                         5 textbooks/student in lower secondary


Percentage of schools implementing            not available                            Deworming program in 5/11 regions;
deworming program. Anti-AIDS, FGM                                                      Anti HIV AIDS program in all Regions and
program defined and implemented in each                                                7845 teachers trained
IDEN


Initiate post-literacy programs in 10 IDEN    10                                       100% IDEN initiated post-literacy programs


At least 8 IA prepare comprehensive action




                                                               - 27 -

plans and budgets for recurrent and    8              All IA and all IDEN prepared PRDE/PDDE,
investment expenditures                               Regional and departmental MTEF.

1End of project




                                            - 28 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                                 Estimate        Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                                US$ million     US$ million
Increasing access to education                                     637.00          1347.19            211
Improving the quality of education                                 243.00           281.01            115
Strenghening capacity for decentralized management                  45.35           162.84            359
PPF                                                                  0.65              0.65           100

Total Baseline Cost                                                926.00          1791.69
                         Total Project Costs                       926.00          1791.69
                   Total Financing Required                        926.00          1791.69
The project received 2 years extension. This explains the level of Government contribution

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                           1
                                                    Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category             ICB
                                                       NCB                   2                  Total Cost
                                                                       Other            N.B.F.

1. Works                             0.00              14.31            0.50            45.50   60.00
                                     (0.00)           (10.93)           (0.42)          (0.00)  (12.34)
2. Goods                             8.68              4.15             0.33            40.02   53.28
                                     (7.23)            (3.85)           (0.15)          (0.00)  (11.24)
3. Consultants' Services             0.00              0.00             8.89            15.28   24.17
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (7.41)          (0.00)  (7.41)
4. Training                          0.00              0.00             6.50            27.86   34.42
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.42)          (0.00)  (5.42)
5. Grants                            0.00              0.00             11.45           15.00   26.50
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (9.68)          (0.00)  (9.68)
6. Operating costs                   0.00              0.73             7.22           718.94   727.00
                                     (0.00)            (0.22)           (3.03)          (0.00)  (3.25)
7. PPF                               0.00              0.00             0.65            0.00     0.65
                                     (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.65)          (0.00)  (0.65)
   Total                             8.68              19.18            35.54          862.60   926.00
                                     (7.84)           (14.09)          (31.12)          (0.00)  (50.00)




                                                   - 29 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          1
                                                    Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category          ICB
                                                       NCB                  2                      Total Cost
                                                                      Other            N.B.F.

   1. Works                           0.00            20.66            0.45            212.39      233.50
                                     (0.00)           (10.62)          (0.45)          (0.00)      (11.07)
   2. Goods                           7.24             3.47            1.66            66.63        79.00
                                     (7.24)           (3.47)           (1.66)          (0.00)      (12.37)
   3. Services                        0.00             0.00            8.22            26.16        34.38
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (8.22)          (0.00)       (8.22)
   4. Training                        0.00             0.00            6.60            27.82        34.42
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (6.60)          (0.00)       (6.60)
   5. Grants                          0.00             0.00            9.60            16.90        26.50
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (9.60)          (0.00)       (9.60)
   6. Operating costs                 0.00             0.00            2.94            1380.3      1383.2
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (2.94)          (0.00)         4
                                                                                                    (2.94)
   7. PPF                             0.00             0.00            0.65             0.00        0.65
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.65)          (0.00)       (0.65)
      Total                           7.84            24.13            30.12          1730.20      1791.69
                                     (7.24)           (14.09)         (30.12)          (0.00)      (51.45)

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
                             IDA      Govt.       CoF.       IDA        Govt.       CoF.      IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Increasing access to        29.60    585.57      21.83      29.75      1233.40      84.04     100.5  210.6   385.0
education
Improving the quality of    12.75    165.22      65.03      14.05       239.21      27.75     110.2  144.8    42.7
education
Strenghening capacity for    7.00     37.21       1.14       7.00       154.39      1.45      100.0  414.9   127.2
decentralized management
PPF                          0.65                            0.65                             100.0




                                                   - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits



                  Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Conducted During Preparation of the ICR


This annex summarizes an economic analysis that was conducted during the preparation of the
implementation completion report (ICR) for the first phase of the Senegal Quality Education For All
Project (QEFA1). The first phase of QEFA covered the period 2000­2005. The economic analysis outlines,
the following: (i) the evolution of the macroeconomic and social trends in Senegal; (ii) the financing of the
education sector; (iii) recent achievements in the education sector; and (iv) the efficiency and equity in the
distribution of spending on education in Senegal.

1. Macroeconomic and Social Trends in Senegal

From 2000 to 2005, Senegal's overall economic and financial situation was favorable to the development
of the country's education sector. Table 3-1 summarizes the growth in Senegal's gross domestic product
(GDP) rate, GDP per capita, population, and aggregated expenditures committed by the government of
Senegal from 2000 to 2005.

Table 3-1. Main Aggregate Macroeconomic and Budgetary Growth in Senegal, 2000­2005
 Indicator                                                2000     2001      2002        2003      2004       2005
GDP nominal
(CFAF million)                                          3,114,000 3,379,700 3,472,700   3,725,400 4,023,700  4,364,300
    GDP growth rate                                        5.60%     5.60%     1.10%       6.50%     6.00%      6.40%
Population                                              9,582,542 9,802,775 9,956,202 10,127,802 10,564,303 10,600,000
    GDP/capita (CFAF)                                     324,966   344,770   348,798     367,839   380,877    411,726
Total government resources
(CFAF million)                                            626,300  664,400   726,700     797,500   852,700    938,800
    Domestic resources                                    562,300   602,700   664,600     720,000   771,600    841,200
    Loans                                                  64,000    61,700    62,100      77,500    81,100     97,600
    Domestic resources (% of GDP)                         20.11%    19.66%    20.93%      21.41%    21.19%     21.51%
Aggregate government expenditures
(CFAF million)                                            517,600   635,100   626,100    692,600   776,900    804,700
    Recurrent Domestic expenses                           411,000   516,600   478,200     529,400   561,500    592,500
    Debt service                                           45,300    30,300    39,800      44,600    46,600     43,300
    Recurrent domestic expenses excluding debt service    365,700   486,300   438,400     484,800   514,900    549,200
    Domestic capital expenditures                         106,600   118,500   147,900     163,200   215,400    212,200



As outlined in the above table, Senegal's population increased from 9.5 million inhabitants in 2000 to 10.6
million in 2005. With an average annual population growth rate of about 2.5 percent in the last few years,
Senegal has a demographic structure with a large proportion of school-aged youth. This situation
underscores the country's need for education.

Between 2000 and 2005, the GDP growth rate of Senegal was 5 percent per annum on average--from
CFAF 3,114 billion in 2000 to CFAF 4,364 billion in 2005. During the same period, GDP per capita
evolved from CFAF 324,000 (about $US 600) to CFAF 411,000 ($US 775). Senegal's income
distribution is characterized by inequity and strong polarization, with the richest 10 percent of households
earning 44 percent of the incomes and the poorest 40 percent of households earning only 17 percent.



                                                        - 31 -

Three positive developments characterized the evolution of public finances in Senegal during these years:
(i) government revenue strongly increased, (ii) debt servicing was kept to an affordable level; and (iii)
public expenditures were drastically modified to give a higher share to investments. Between 2000 and
2005, the government of Senegal's ordinary revenue, excluding donations, increased from CFAF 562,300
billion to CFAF 841,200 billion. The Government resources as a percent of GDP which represented 21
percent in 2000 have been increased to 49.5 percent in between 2000 and 2005. An improvement in tax
revenue in the context of strong growth of the GDP and the dismantling of an important tariff contributed
to these developments. The decision to harmonize internal taxation by the West African Economic and
Monetary Union (WAEMU), which came into effect in September 2001, also contributed.

Despite these improvements, Senegal continued to depend heavily on external assistance to finance its
investment expenditures. The share of GDP in the Government pubic expenditures increased in average
from 13.2 percent to 13.9 percent between 2000 and 2005. During this period, the share of the investments
of the domestic resources, which accounted for approximately 20 percent of the total expenditure in 2000,
increased to 27 percent in 2005. More than two-thirds of the recurring expenditures are absorbed by the
payment of the wages (68 percent), the relative weight of which regularly increased these last years.

2. Financing of the Education Sector


A. Public Expenditures for Education

During the first phase of QEFA, Senegal's allocated a large portion of its public expenditures to education.
Ninety-one percent of the Senegal's total expenditures on education were financed with internal budgetary
resources during this period, and the government of Senegal was the first contributor to the financing of
QEFA.

In 2005, the national budget for education financing accounted for 4.9 percent of GDP--a light increase
from the 3.4 percent of GDP in 2000 (Table 3-2). Senegal led other countries in Africa with respect to the
allocation of its public expenditure to the education sector, since the highest performing countries in the
region spent on average only 3.8 percent of their GDP on education.




                                                     - 32 -

Table 3-2. Senegal's Public Expenditures for Education, 2000­2005
Category                                2000        2001        2002       2003        2004       2005
Recurrent expenditures (CFAF
billion)                              99,376     102,278     108,508     127,267   161,360     196,084
Investment expenditure (CFAF
billion)                              12,274       22,684      34,952     45,677     39,888      33,195
   National financing                  5,724        9,313      11,600     15,000     14,490      17,265
   External financing                  6,550       13,371      23,352     30,677     25,398      15,930
Total expenditures (CFAF
billion)                             111,650     124,962      143,460    172,944    201,248     229,279


Total expenditures on national
financing (CFAF billion)             105,100     111,591      120,108    142,267    175,850     213,349

Recurrent education
expenditures as a percentage
of recurrent expenditures
excluding debt                       27.20%       21.00%      24.80%     26.30%     31.30%      35.70%

Recurrent education
expenditures as % of
government domestic revenue          17.70%       17.00%      16.30%     17.70%     20.90%      23.30%
Total national education
expenditures as a percentage
of GDP                                3.40%        3.30%       3.50%      3.80%      4.40%       4.90%



Senegal also appears in a positive light if one considers that the government's recurrent education
expenditures as a percentage of the government's total recurrent expenditures excluding debt servicing
increased from about 27 percent in 2000 to about 35 percent in 2005. The allocation of recurrent
expenditures by level of education from 2000­2005 is shown in Table 3-3. During this period, the
government's investment expenditures for education increased 201 percent.


Table 3-3.Senegal's Percentage Distribution of Recurrent Education Expenditures by
Level of Education, 2000­2005
Level of education                 2000         2001        2002        2003      2004        2005
Preschool                        0.70%        0.74%        1.01%      0.40%      1.49%       0.69%
Elementary                          38.1        38.38      42.21        48.1         42      45.04
Middle                              13.2        12.09      10.65         4.5       10.6        8.44
Secondary general                   10.4          8.5        7.54        9.6        7.5      13.39
Technical and professional           1.6          2.3        3.32        3.1        3.3         3.1
Higher education                    25.6        26.09      26.53        23.8       26.4        23.8
Other levels                         NA          NA           0.2        0.3        0.2         0.3
Central administration              10.4        11.9         8.54       10.2        8.5        5.24
        Total                     100%         100%        100%        100%       100%       100%

In terms of the percentage of recurrent education expenditures devoted to primary education, Senegal's
performance is about average in comparison with other French-speaking countries in the region (Table



                                                     - 33 -

3-4).


      Table 3-4. Percentage Distribution of Recurrent Education Expenditures by Level of Education:
  Comparison of Senegal and Other French-Speaking Countries in Sub-Saharan Africa,(2005 for Senegal,
                                      more recent year for the others)
                                      Primary                      Secondary                 Higher
Country                             education                      education               education
Senegal                               45%                            25%                     24%
Benin                                  51                             28                      22
Burkina Faso                           62                             19                      19
Cameroon                               40                             46                      14
Ivory Coast                            47                             37                      16
Guinea                                 44                             31                      25
Mauritania                             44                             39                      17
Niger                                  60                             27                      13
Mali                                   35                             44                      16
Chad                                   46                             31                      23
Togo                                   45                             36                      19




B. Households' Contributions to Education Expenditures for Children

Households' contributions to education expenditures in Senegal are generally for recurrent expenditures
such as the payment of the registration fees, school and transport expenses, and the cost of purchasing
textbooks and school stationery. Data from the first and second household surveys (l'Enquête Sénégalaise
auprès des Ménages, ESAM1 and ESAM2) conducted in 1994/95 and 2002, respectively, show that the
average household expenditure on education per household declined from CFAF 44,724 in 1994/95 to
CFAF 29,840 in 2002 (49.9 percent), and the average household expenditure per pupil declined from
CFAF 16,385 to CFAF 14,393 (12.15 percent).

The data from ESAM2 point to enormous disparities in expenditures on education by households in urban
and rural areas (Table 3-5). In the urban areas, the households devote on average three times more
resources to the education of their children than those of the rural areas (CFAF 24,227 in urban areas vs.
CFAF 8,005 in rural areas). These differences are explained by the importance of the presence of private
schools in the urban areas. There are also disparities in expenditures on education by households in Dakar
and the other urban areas.




                                                     - 34 -

Table 3-5. Expenditures on Education by Households and by Zones, Senegal 2001
                                                                            Expenditures
                                                                            in urban zones
                                                                                       Other
                                                                                       urban                     Expenditures
Category                                                                Dakar          zones                     in rural zones  Total
Total expenditures by households (CFAF billions)                            860.47        459.96                          776.94 2,097.36
Expenditures on education (CFAF billions)                                    22.16          5.04                            4.67    31.86
Expenditures on education (% of total expenditures)                         2.60%         1.10%                           0.60%     1.50%
Expenditures on education per household (CFAF)                              80,018        24,227                           8,005    29,840
Expenditures on education per pupil (CFAF )                                 39,576     10,605.40                       3,886.00  14,393.30
Source: Second Senegalese Household Survey (l'Enquête Sénégalaise auprès des Ménages, ESAM2), Direction de la
Privision et de la Statistique (DPS), Ministry of Finances (MEF), 2002.



3. Recent Achievements of the Education Sector


A. Achievements at the Early Childhood Development Level

Early childhood development (ECD) centers in Senegal enroll children between 3 to 5 years of age.
At the end of the 1990s, ECD enrollment was increasing by only 1,000 to 2,000 students per year. During
the first phase of QEFA, the ECD enrollment rate increased substantially--from 2.7 percent in 2000 to 6.8
percent in 2005. Accelerated expansion in schools construction led to an increase in ECD enrollment from
25,392 students in 2000 to 78,812 students in 2005 (210 percent) (Figure 3-1).

Figure 3-1. Access to Early Childhood Development Centers, 2000­2005




                     100000                                                           50%     rate
                      80000                                                           40%
                                                                                      30%
     students         60000                                                           20%
             of       40000                                                    78812  10%
                                                                                      0%          increase
                      20000                                        54837
                              25392    31650             38342                        -10%
                          0                     28663                                 -20%
               Number
                            2000     2001     2002     2003     2004       2005                           Annual

                                              School year




B. Achievements at the Primary School Level

Changes in the primary school gross enrollment rate (GER). During the first phase of QEFA, the
government primary objective which was to significantly increase primary school enrollment was achieved.
The number of students in Senegal's primary schools increased from 1,117,712 in 2000 to 1,444,163 in
2005--an increase of 29 percent (Table 3-6). The GER in primary schools increased from about 68
percent in 2000 to 82.5 percent in 2005. As of 2005, girls represented 48.6 percent of 1,444,163 students



                                                                - 35 -

in primary schools.

Table 3-6. Primary School Enrollment in Senegal, 2000­2005
                                              2000        2001       2002        2003        2004       2005
Total enrollment                           1,117,712    1,159,721 1,197,081    1,287,059  1,382,749   1,444,163
  Public school                             990,396     1,030,260 1,065,042    1,146,812  1,228,336   1,276,294
  Private school                            127,316     129,461    132,039      140,281     154,413   167,869
Precentage change in enrollment              8.10%       3.80%      3.20%        7.50%       7.40%     4.40%
Number of newly registered students         244,374     225 874    240 067      262,319     283,859   289,615
Gross enrollment rate (GER)                 68.30%      69.40%      71.60%      75.80%      79.90%    82.50%
Percentage of admissions in grade 1         80.09%          -       72.45%      85.10%      91.10%    91.50%



The growth of school attendance at the primary level in Senegal was significant during the first year of the
government's Quality Education For All Program (QEFA) initiated in 2000. In 2000, the number of
students in primary school increased to 8 percent. Since this year parallels trends were observed during
early and mid-1990s, when the education sector was able to address issues that were negatively affecting
performance trends. During the latter period, the primary school GER increased from 56.6 percent in 1991
to 54.4 percent in 1994, and the number of students in primary schools increased from only 2.4 percent to
4 percent during those years. Significant developments in 1996 led the number of students in primary
schools to increase to 9 percent in 1997.

During the first phase of QEFA, the CI (grade 1) admission rate increased from 81 percent in 2000 to 91.1
percent in 2005. The expansion in the network of basic education [primary education facilities was the
main trigger for improving primary school admission rates.

Construction of primary school classrooms: The expected outputs in terms of school construction have
been achieved thanks to a significant effort in classroom construction at the primary level, which has
mainly contributed to the improvement of educational network. The first phase of QEFA did plan the
construction of at least 2,000 schools per year.

During the first phase of QEFA, the number of primary schools increased from 4,751 schools in 2000
(including 4,338 public schools) to 6,460 schools in 2005 (including 5,795 public schools). This expansion
in the number of primary schools was due primarily to efforts to construct schools and to recruit teachers.

Between 2000 and 2005, and taking into consideration of classrooms built through the financing of
decentralized collectivities and non-governmental organizations, about 10,214 classrooms were built for
primary education, of which approximately 7089 were built with internal financing and 1,000 through
World Bank financing. However, construction interventions are numerous and varied, and the cost of
construction varies tremendously from one financing source to another (Table 3-7).




                                                     - 36 -

 Table 3-7. Total Unit Costs by Classroom
                                                         Unit costs by classroom (x 1,000 FCFA)
                                                              C ivil
Financing Source                                              W o r k s               E q u i p e m e n t
I D A - Q E F A                                               5 .6 2 8                      9 7 2
A F D                                                         6 .6 0 2                    1 . 1 0 8
I D B                                                         9 .3 5 1                     1 .1 5
O P E C III                                                   4 .7 8 7                        0
PNIR (IDA rural dev project)                                  4 .9 7 9                      6 1 2
A fDB III                                                     4 .8 4 2                      N A
P A C (ID A U rban dev project)                               4 .7 2 1                      8 3 5
A F D S ( I D A S o c i a l F u n d )                         5 .0 1 6                      8 4 5
B C I (G overnment budget)                                    4 .4 0 6                      8 3 1
A v e r a g e                                                 5 .1 4 2                     8 5 7



Training and recruiting teachers for primary school: In 2005, 3,463 teachers were hired at the primary
education level even though QEFA expected that only 2,000 per year would be hired. A sustainable policy
for training and recruiting teachers has contributed to a significant increase in the availability of sufficient
qualified teachers.

During the crisis of 1995, when the enrollment rate dropped because of difficulties in hiring teachers whose
costs were unsustainable in budgetary terms, Senegal introduced a new category of teachers called
Volunteers for National Education (Volontaires de l'Education Nationale, VEN) who are paid about
one-fourth of the unit cost of public teachers. This new category of teachers considerably boosted the
primary school enrollment rate. Table 3-8 shows the percentage distribution of teachers by type of teacher
in specific regions of Senegal as of 2005.


Table 3-8. Number and Percentage Distribution of Teachers in
Senegal 2005

                Total
              Number           Percentage distribution of teachers by typeof teacher
Region                      Civil servants Contract teachers   VEN         Other
Dakar           4,685            81               7              8            4
Diourbel        1,833            31              28             40            1
Fatick          2,570            30              26             44            0
Kaolack         2,977            36              27             36            1
Kolda           3,137            25              33             41            2
Louga           2,212            28              30             41            1
Matam           1,188            14              26             60            1
St Louis        2,551            36              33             30            1
Tamba           1,926            18              34             47            1
Thiès           3,983            53              18             27            2
Ziguinchor      2,198            37              20             37            6
Senegal        29,260            41              24             33            2
Maîtres contractuels are an intermediary teaching between VEN and Civil servant;
VEN = Volunteers for National Education (Volontaires de l'Education Nationale,
VEN )

Primary school completion rate: Because of a slight reduction in repetition and school dropout rates, the



                                                            - 37 -

primary school completion rate in Senegal improved during the first phase of QEFA from 36.3 percent in
2000 to 53.9 percent in 2005 (Table 3-9). Despite this improvement, the primary school completion rate
remains low.

                 Table 3-9. Primary School Completion Rate in Senegal, 2000­2005

                                             2000         2001    2002     2003    2004  2005

Boys and girls (%)                           36.3         45      45.6     45.6    48.7  53.9

Boys                                         40.6        50.5     51.3     47.1    54.1  60.1

Girls                                        31.6        39.3     39.7     43.9    42.9  47.5

              Source: Educational Planning and Reform Department (Direction de la Planification et de la
              Réforme de l'Education, DPRE), System indicators, 2005.

While there is gap in the completion rate between boys and girls, the primary completion rate for girls
increased from 31.6 percent in 2000 to 47.5 percent in 2005. The repetition rate decreased during QEFA1
from 13 percent in 2000 to 12 percent in 2005, but the target repetition rate of 10 percent was not reached.



Quality of learning in primary education: The results of learning assessments in French and
mathematics conducted in grade 4 (CE2) by the National System for Assessing Educational Performance (
Système National d'Évaluation des Rendements Scolaires, SNERS) showed improvements in students'
achievement in both subject areas between 1996 and 2002 (Table 3-10).


                      Table 3-10. Primary School Students' Rate
       of Success in Senegal's Standardized Evaluations, 1996 and 2002
                                       CP (Grade 2)                      CE2 (Grade 4)
Evaluation                       French               Math           French         Math
SNERS 96                            --                  --           44.40%       44.30%
SNERS 2002                       55.50%              51.80%          50.90%       56.20%
SNERS = National System for Assessing Educational Performance (Système National
d'Évaluation des Rendements Scolaires)

Source: National Institute of Studies and Action for the Development of Education
 (Institut National d'Etudes et d'Action pour le Développement



The lack of textbooks in primary school remains a major concern. In primary school, there were only 1.9
textbooks available per student in 2005, although a ratio of 3 to 1 textbooks per student was the goal.

C. Achievements at Other Educational Levels

During QEFA1, the development of middle schools (or collèges), which should have led to improved
transition rates between primary and middle schools, was conducted in a disorderly manner. Although the
transition rate from grade 6 (CM2) to grade 7 (6ème) increased from 38.9 percent in 2000 to 49 percent in
2005, these improvements were achieved without any improvements in the quality of school infrastructure,
because most of the new middle schools had been created either in temporary shelters in rural areas or after
displacing existing primary school classrooms. Any growth in the middle schools during the
implementation of QEFA1 clearly did not come from increases in the government's budget, because middle
schools' share in the government's recurrent budget declined from 13 percent in 2000 to 9 percent in 2005.



                                                               - 38 -

At the secondary and higher education levels, few significant improvements could be noticed during the
first phase of QEFA mainly resulting from the lack of a sustainable strategy for the implementation of the
expected reforms. Quality improvements and management objectives that had been set for these two levels
were not implemented, and the situation completely degenerated at the higher education level. Moreover,
the mismanagement at the higher education level threatened the sustainability of results attained at the
primary school level.

4. Efficiency and Equity in the Distribution of Spending on Education in Senegal


A. Efficiency in Spending on Education

Unfortunately, Senegal's education system suffers from great inefficiency, and during QEFA1, the situation
worsened. As shown in Table 3-11, the average duration of schooling in Senegal in 2005 (6.6 years) was
generally below the average (8 years) for the 13 other countries listed. Yet public expenditure on education
as a percentage of GDP was relatively higher in Senegal (4.9 percent) than the average for the other
countries (3.8 percent). This situation resulted in a lower index of total efficiency (average duration of
schooling/public expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP) in Senegal of 1.35. Senegal had the
lowest indicator of total efficiency of all of the countries listed in the table but Zimbabwe (0.88) and Niger
(1.21).

Table 3-11. Efficiency in Spending in the Educational Sector in Senegal
and Other African Countries
                                                  Public        Index of total
                           Average             expenditure      efficiency in
                          duration of         on education      spending in the

   Country                 schooling               as a         educational
                          in years (a)       percentage of      sector (a)/(b)
                                                GDP (b)
 Senegal
 2001                          5.3                  3.3         1.61
 2005                          6.6                  4.9         1.35
 South Africa                 12.9                  5.8         2.22
 Benin                         7.1                  3.3         2.15
 Cameroun                      9.3                  3.4         2.74
 Ghana                         7.5                  4.2         1.79
 Guinea-Bissau                 5.5                  2.3         2.39
 Equatorial Guinea              9                   2.2         4.09
 Maurice                      12.4                  3.3         3.76
 Mozambique                    5.4                  2.5         2.16
 Niger                         2.9                  2.4         1.21
 Chad                          5.3                  2           2.65
 Togo                         10.4                  4.9         2.12
 Zambia                        6.9                  2           3.45
 Zimbabwe                      9.8                 11.1         0.88
     Average of 13             8.0                  3.8         2.11
     countries



                                                      - 39 -

Table 3-12 below indicates that Senegal's public per pupil expenditures for primary education increased
from CFAF 38,425 in 2000 to CFAF 69.216 in 2005--double that the unit cost of the Asian countries
during years 1990. In middle school level one rather attends a fall of the unit cost. The strong increase in
personnel in this cycle of teaching, combined with a reduction of the expenditure on this level, was the
cause of this fall.

Table 3-12. Senegal's Per Pupil Expenditures on Education, 2000 and 2005
                                  Per pupil expenditures
                                           (CFAF)                  As a multiple of
                                                                   primary unit cost
Educational level                     2000        2005        2000             2005
Primary school                       38,425      69,216         1               1
Middle school                        99,891      69,061        2.6              1
Secondary school                     217,727     392,144       5.7             5.7
Higher education                     946,852    1,027,205      24.6            14.8

Per pupil expenditures on primary school students represents more than 16 percent of the GDP per capita
in Senegal, placing Senegal among the countries with high per student expenditures at the primary
education level (Table 3-13). Yet this fact is a manifestation of the inefficiency of the use of resources in
Senegal.


  Table 3-13. Per Pupil Expenditures as a Percentage of GDP
       Per Capita in Senegal and Other African Countries
                        Primary      Middle     Secondary Higher
Country                  school      school      2 school education
Senegal (2005)                16.8        16.7         95.2      249.5
Benin                         10.8         15.8        56.2        149
Burkina Faso                  19.2          39           84        NA
Cameroon                       7.1         31.6        37.1         83
Congo                            4         12.7        36.8        NA
Ivory Coast                     13          35           72        126
Guinea                         8.7         13.4        15.7        220
Madagascar                      11         26.7        64.4        190
Mauritania                      12         39.6        33.8        120
Niger                           20          49          157        515
Mali (2004)                   11.1         26.5       117.1       192.9
Chad                             7         26.8        35.8       412.1
Togo                            11          22         34.1        215



Senegal initiated important reforms in its primary school teachers' recruitment and remuneration policy by
introducing a body of contractual teachers (VEN and Contractuals) paid four times less than the civil
servant and who currently account for 47 percent of the teaching body. One would have expected this
policy to contribute to reducing the total unit cost and the share of the wages to the profit of the increase in
the places and expenditure on quality inputs. A significant wasting of personnel resources made it
impossible to achieve the goals of improving significantly the access and the quality of schooling.




                                                      - 40 -

Teacher recruitment efforts (section 3.B above) during QEFA1 allowed the multiplication of the sedentary
stations in the administrations or positions unknown by the administrations of the system. Although
Senegal formed a teacher training school (ecole de formation des instituteurs, EFI) and recruited 2,800
Volunteers for National Education in 2004, this effort did not result in a consequent increase in the number
of teachers in classrooms. Only 1,407 new teachers appeared in the classes. The situation in 2004 was
better than that of 2002, when only 862 teachers out of 2,500 teachers recruited were effectively teaching.

This phenomenon of misuse of personnel resources, far from being insulated, is a recurring phenomenon
that is the one of the principal obstacles to the access of all to the primary education. Approximately 47
percent of the public resources allocated to the operation of primary education are not directly used in
schooling. The PETS conducted in 2003 concluded that, of 100 civil servant teachers (excluding the
contractual teachers), 47 percent appear in classes, 12 percent are localized in the central or decentralized
departments of educational administration, and 35 percent are not identified, are reprocessed, died, are in
an other ministry, in position of training course. That situation is, more than the lack of resources, the
cause of the lack of performances of Senegal in terms of schooling in spite of the importance of the
mobilized resources.

Regarding economic allocation of public expenditures, from 2000 to 2005, personnel represented about 70
percent of the administrative expenditures for Senegal's education sector; expenditures for material
represented between 3 percent and 6 percent; and the remainder went to transfers (primarily subsidies at
universities and other higher educational establishments (Table 3-14). During the first two years of phase
1 of QEFA, the share of personnel costs increased to 71 percent in 2005. During that period, quality in puts
was underfinanced.

               Table 3-14. Economic distribution of Public Expenditures for the Administration
               Of the Education Sector, 2000­2005
                                      2000        2001       2002        2003     2004    2005
Personnel                                 71%        68%         69%       70%       68%      71%
Material                                    6%         4%         3%        6%        4%       5%
Transfers                                 23%        27%         28%       24%       28%      24%
Total operation                          100%       100%       100%       100%     100%      100%

                     Source: MOE, 2005.

The concentration of students at the University Cheikh Anta Diop (UCAD) in Dakar continues to pose
problems of internal efficiency. Moreover, the continuation of the tendencies in progress threatens the
viability of the system. The follow-up of the cohort of students registered in first year of study for the first
time into 2001/2002 and who were to complete four years in October 2005 showed that in UCAD's four
faculties for every 1,000 students: (i) in the Faculty of Science, Economics, and Management, 395 first
year students passed in the second year and 356 accessed to the fourth year; (ii) in the Technical Faculty
of Science, only 254 students arrived in the fourth year without giving up or having to repeat; (iii) in the
Faculty of Arts, which concentrates 41 percent of UCAD's personnel, only 57 students arrived and
accessed to the fourth year without repeating in 2005; and (iv) in Medicine, 429 students arrived and
accessed to the fourth year without repeating, and more than half repeated the first year.

B. Equity in Spending on Education




                                                      - 41 -

Inequalities of access by economic group: Table 3-15 below compares the degree of inequality in the
public allocation of resources to education in Senegal as compared with the average French-speaking
African countries and English-speaking African countries with a GDP level per inhabitant under
US$1,000. The table shows that 50.8 percent of public resources allocated to education benefit the highest
educated 10 percent of Senegal's population.

Table 3-15. Degree of Inequality in the Public Allocation of Resources to Education in Senegal,
in English-Speaking African Countries, and in French-Speaking African Countries
                                      Percentage of resources for
                                         the highest educated 10              Gini Coefficient
                                       percent of the population                 or Indexa

 Senegal                                           50.8%                            0.59

 French-speaking Africab                            46%                             0.56

 English-speaking Africa                            28%                             0.36


      a This index measures the degree of inequality. The value of the index varies between 0 (perfect
      equality) and 1 (situation in which only one individual concentrates between his hands all the
      resources).
      bCountries with a GDP under $US 1,000.

Table 3-16 classifies Senegalese households by quintiles of income in 2002 and rates of schooling. The
table shows that the rates of schooling increase regularly as one goes from the first to the last quintile, on
the other hand, the inequalities between girls and boys are marked for poorest (quintiles 1 and 2) that for
richest (quintile 5). Secondary education is especially reserved for richest. Whereas the rough rate of
schooling for this cycle is 53.1 percent for the 20 percent richest, it is only 2.3 percent and 2.2 percent for
quintile 2 and quintile 1, respectively.

Table 3-16. Rough Rate of Schooling by Quintile of Household Income
and Gender, (2002)
                Boys         Girls        Boys         Girls         Boys      Girls
 1 (poorest)         53.2        48.5         15.4          3.6            3        1.3
       2             60.1        47.7            15         7.3          4.1        0.9
       3              69         61.5         27.6           17         14.3          5
       4             84.3        77.4         40.7         29.9         30.4       13.7
  5 (richest)      112.6        103.2         65.2         50.4         59.8        48
                  Source: Calculations starting from the data of the ESAM 2, 2002.

Disparities by gender and by region: If the GER for primary education did not progress at the national
level at the awaited rate/rhythm, the cause may be insufficiencies on the part of the school offer in certain
areas. Thus, areas like Diourbel and Kaolack, with respective GER of 50.2 percent and 54.3 percent,
present enormous delays as regards schooling. Four out of the 11 areas still remain very far from the
objective of a GER of 82.2 percent fixed for 2005.




                                                        - 42 -

One, however, notes a reduction in the inequalities of access to basic teaching compared to the residence
area. The index of representativeness dropped by 1.55 in 2003 to 1.46 in 2005 in urban environment, and
increased by 0.74 to 0.78 during the same time in rural medium. This reduction of the absolute index of
representativeness is also very clear between boys and girls and comes to confirm the results of the
comparison of their GER per area. The disparities between areas can be highlighted compared to the
imbalance which exists between the schooling of the boys and that of the girls. This imbalance can be
measured by the Index of parity of the sexes (IPS) or by a diagram of the GER according to the sex and the
area.

                       Table 3-17. Personnel and GER by Region and Gender, 2005
                             Number of pupils                                  GER
                Boys          Girls        Total      Percent Percent  Percent Percent      Index of parity
  Region                                                                                    * (Girls/Boys)

                                                       girls   boys      Girls  Total
Dakar          167,459       165,190      332,649      49.7    85.6       84.4      85           0.99
Diourbel        41,220        42,735      83,955       50.9    50.5       49.9     50.2          0.99
Fatick          57,392        54,384      111,776      48.7    72.2       73.6     72.9          1.02
Koalack         65,647        63,874      129,521      49.3    55.4       53.3     54.3          0.96
Kolda           86,465        67,817      154,282       44     118.1      98.9    108.8          0.84
Louga           40,242        38,088      78,330       48.6    78.2       70.8     74.4          0.91
Matam           21,825        25,529      47,354       53.9    80.9       95.4     88.2          1.18
St Louis        51,401        54,923      106,324      51.7    97.2      104.7    100.9          1.08
Tamba           46,618        38,665      85,283       45.3    105.1      86.5     95.8          0.82
Thies          104,948       100,244      205,192      48.9    84.1       80.6     82.3          0.96
Ziguinchor      58,520        50,977      109,497      46.6    103.4      96.8    100.2          0.94
Senegal        741,737       702,426     1,444,163     48,6    84.4       80.6     82.5          0.95
* Index of parity between the sexes: IPS = GER girls/GER boys.
Source: Annual statistical yearbook, various numbers, MOE




                                                       - 43 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/11/1998                6    TTL (1), Implementation
                                             specialist (2); Sr Operation
                                             Officer (1), Sr Education
                                             specialist (1), Education
                                             Econimist (1)
              06/09/1999                8    TTL (1), Implementation
                                             sapecialist (2); Sr Human
                                             resources specialist (1),
                                             Education specialist (2),
                                             Education Econimist (1), School
                                             health specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/03/1999                5    TTL (1), Implementation
                                             sapecialist (1); Sr Human
                                             resources specialist (1),
                                             Education specialist
                                             (1),School health specialist
                                             (1)

 Supervision

              10/24/2000                5    TTL (1); SR. OPERATIONS             S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (1); FINANCIAL (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPECIAL
                                             (1)
              01/20/2001               10    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);               S               S
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASST (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                             SNR. EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                                             SNR. OPERATIONS SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGT. SPEC. (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                                             LITERACY SPEC (1)
              06/11/2001                3    HUMAN RES.ECONOMIST (1);            S               S
                                             SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC.
                                             (1)
              12/06/2001                5    TEAM LEADER (1);                    S               U
                                             CONSULTANT (2); SOC.
                                             PROTECT. SPEC. (1); FINANC.
                                             MANAG. SPEC. (1)
              05/29/2002                6    TTL (1); FMS (1); EDUCATION         S               U
                                             SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 44 -

                                            SOCIOCULTURAL ED SPEC
                                            (1); ECONOMIST (1); INFO
                                            TECHN. ASSIST. (1)
               07/23/2002              4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    U
                                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                            (1)
               01/25/2003              6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             U    U
                                            CONSULTANT, EDUC. SPEC
                                            (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                            (1); CONSULTANT (1); SR
                                            OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                            Country Office HD Lead (1)
               09/26/2003              8    MISSION LEADER, SR. ED (1);       S    S
                                            QUALITY OF ED SPEC (1);
                                            DECENTRALISATION SPEC
                                            (1); ECONOMIST (1); IMPLEM
                                            & CONSTR SPEC (1); EDUC
                                            SPEC (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPEC (1); FINAN MGMT SPEC
                                            (1)
               02/28/2004              7    MISSION LEADER (1);               S    S
                                            SENIOR EDUC SPEC. (1);
                                            CONSULTANT - QUALITY (1);
                                            CONSULTANT - PLANNING
                                            (1); CONSULTANT -
                                            ECONOMIST (1); CONSULT -
                                            CONSTRUCTION (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               11/19/2004              3    MISSION LEADER (1);               S    S
                                            EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1),
                                            EDUCATION ECONOMIST
               05/13/2005              5    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            EDUCATION ECONOMIST (1),
                                            CONSULTANT (4)

 ICR
               01/19/2006             1     TTL (1), Sr Education
                                            Specialist (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           11.52                      78,888.00
  Appraisal/Negotiation                60.61                     300,187.68
  Supervision                        186.63                      520,387.52
  ICR                                     7.8                     11,907.20
  Total                              269.25                       909,105.7




                                            - 45 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      Project Documents

Aides-Memoires
Project Status Report and Implementation Status Report, Seq #1-16 (2000-2005)
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), report No 19610-SE, March 20, 2000;
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), April 28, 2000
Office Memorandums
Project correspondence


2.      Bank Documents

Country Assistance Strategy (1998-2000), December 1997;
Country Assistance Strategy, March 2003;
Implementation Completion Report of Higher Education Support Project
Implementation Completion Report of Higher Pilot Female Literacy Project

3.      Government documents

Country Status report (CREA-UCAD, 2004)
Revised Education Policy, 2005
Evaluation of school construction, 2005
Evaluation of QEFA 1, DPRE 2005
Medium Term Expenditures Framework (MTEF), MOE, 2005
Technical and Financial Annual Report, Various versions, CREA 2000-2005
Annual statistical yearbook, various versions, 2000-2005




                                                    - 48 -

Additional Annex 8. Government Contribution

                     MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE




DIRECTION DE LA PLANIFICATION ET DE LA REFORME DE L'EDUCATION




RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROGRAMME EDUCATION DE QUALITE POUR TOUS

                                (EQPT) FINANCE

                           PAR LE CREDIT IDA 33 33-SE




Avril 2006



                                       - 49 -

Cette synthèse de la contribution du gouvernement au rapport d'achèvement de la phase 1 programme
EQPT s'articule autour de : (i) l'évaluation globale des résultats du programme, (ii) l'appréciation des
performances du gouvernement, (iii) les performances de la banque, (iv) leçons apprises, (v) mesures à
prendre par le gouvernement, (vi) recommandations en direction de la banque (IDA).

I. EVALUATON GLOBALE DES RESULTATS DU PROGRAMME

Des résultats de la première phase du programme Education de Qualité Pour Tous (2000-2005) a permis
des progrès importants en matière d'accès, de transition, d'équité et d'implication forte du privé et des
communautés. Le maintien de ce rythme d'expansion devrait être un gage de la réalisation de l'objectif de
scolarisation universelle en 2015.

Le taux brut de pré scolarisation est passée de 2,7% à 6,8% au cours de la période, le TBS a atteint 82,5%
pour un objectif de fin de phase 1 de 75%. Au même moment, la part des filles dans les effectifs de
l'élémentaire avoisine les 48,6% pour un objectif de 46%. Seul le TBS au moyen a enregistré des
contre-performances car il n'atteint que 31,9% sur les 35% visés. Cette situation est due dans une large
mesure à la faiblesse des investissements réalisés dans ce sous-secteur qui, faut-il le rappeler, accueille les
flux de l'enseignement élémentaire où il est noté une massification des effectifs.

Cependant, la qualité des enseignements apprentissages reste encore le ventre mou du système éducatif
sénégalais. La première phase a mis en évidence la nécessité d'une intervention de taille en matière de
qualité tout en poursuivant les investissements en matière d'accès avec une exploration accrue de la
demande éducative. La prise en compte effective de la massification des flux au niveau du moyen
secondaire devrait également amener les acteurs à reconsidérer davantage le sous-secteur dans la
perspective de la loi sur l'obligation scolaire jusqu'à 16 ans. Aussi, est-il important de souligner que le
Gouvernement du Sénégal est tellement acquis à la cause du programme qu'il s'est pleinement approprié
les six objectifs majeurs du forum de Dakar sur l'éducation.

Cependant, il faudra des stratégies beaucoup plus efficaces et une posture nouvelle pour débusquer les
17,5% % d'enfants restant à enrôler dans l'enseignement élémentaire qui, pour la plupart, résident dans
l'enfance en difficulté quelles que soient les raisons. Certes des efforts soutenus ont permis d'accroître
sensiblement le recrutement d'enfants issus de ménages pauvres. Aussi pourrait-on se féliciter des progrès
enregistrés au regard des indicateurs d'accès, mais force est de reconnaître que la difficulté majeure réside
actuellement au niveau des enjeux qualitatifs. La question du redoublement se pose avec acuité comme un
véritable goulot d'étranglement à la sortie des cycles et constitue ainsi la source d'inefficacité du système
scolaire qui ralentit la marche vers l'Education Pour Tous.

C'est pourquoi l'objectif prioritaire demeure centré sur la réalisation de la scolarité primaire universelle,
qui au Sénégal est conçue en termes de relèvement du taux d'achèvement, selon la lettre de politique
générale du secteur de l'Education. Ce profil de scolarisation apparaît plus compatible avec le
développement du millénaire. Sous ce rapport, la réalisation de cet objectif implique la mise en oeuvre de


                                                      - 50 -

politique hardie et mieux ciblées pour d' une part accélérer la marche vers la scolarisation universelle
avant 2010, et d'autre part accroître l'efficience du système éducatif sénégalais.

La deuxième phase devrait par conséquent, mettre l'accent sur l'amélioration significative des
enseignements -apprentissages à tous les niveaux du système, l'accroissement des capacités d'accueil au
niveau de l'enseignement moyen secondaire et au supérieur. Cette stratégie devrait également être
accompagnée par de fortes initiatives destinées à la scolarisation des filles dans les zones de résistance, la
diversification de l'offre éducative en vue d'une prise en charge réelle des particularités de certaines
communautés, l'appui au privé dans une perspective d'accès et de maintien des enfants issus de milieux
socio-économiques défavorisés.

Aussi, la deuxième phase du PDEF, devrait permettre de renforcer l'efficacité de la coordination du
programme au niveau déconcentré/décentralisé et au niveau central. A cet effet, le fonctionnement des
organes de gestion du PDEF devrait être effectif à chaque instance en vue d'une meilleure circulation des
flux d'information et d'une plus grande efficacité du suivi évaluation.

La communication, ventre mou du programme au cours de la première phase mérite également une
attention particulière pour les prochaines étapes du PDEF. Cette communication est à orienter davantage
vers les enseignants, les élèves, étudiants, les communautés et les collectivités locales.

II. PERFORMANCES DU GOUVERNEMENT

Le respect par le Gouvernement du Sénégal de ses engagements financiers a permis l'allocation à temps
réel des ressources budgétaires au secteur. Cela a permis de porter la part des dépenses courantes de l'Etat
allouées au secteur de 40% (hors dette hors dépenses communes, environ 35% hors dette) en 2005. La
réforme de la politique de contractualisation et de recrutement a été également appliquée et s'est avérée
comme une réussite pour le Gouvernement. Favorisée en cela, par la perspective d'un recrutement dans la
fonction publique des maîtres et professeurs contractuels qui a suscité un engouement des candidats au
volontariat et au vacatariat. S'ajoutent à ces performances, les investissements en génie civil notamment en
salles de classe, collèges de proximité et lycées qui ont permis d'élargir les capacités d'accueil du secteur et
surtout de booster le TBS dans les différents ordres d'enseignement en particulier au niveau de
l'élémentaire.

Le gouvernement a également adopté la loi sur l'obligation scolaire jusqu'à 16 ans et adhère fermement aux
objectifs de l'EPT, du Millénium et du NEPAD. Enfin, la réussite du dialogue social avec les acteurs
sociaux en particulier les syndicats et les parents d'élèves constitue l'un des acquis majeurs du programme.
En effet, l'instauration d'un dialogue permanent et l'ouverture progressive du processus de prise de
décisions aux acteurs sociaux ont permis d'accroître l'implication et la participation active et responsable
de ces derniers dans le traitement et la gestion des questions éducatives et d'adhérer aux grandes options
politiques arrêtées par le Gouvernement.

III. PERFORMANCES DE LA BANQUE

La présence active de la Banque durant toute la période de mise en oeuvre du programme au cours de la
première phase est à saluer. Ainsi, elle a eu à ponctuer cette phase de mission de supervision et d'appui
technique à travers l'envoi de consultants et d'experts. De même, la décentralisation des centres de décision
de la Banque avec notamment la responsabilisation de la représentation résidente au Sénégal sur certains
dossiers a permis le développement des mécanismes de gestion de proximité avec comme résultat la célérité
dans le traitement de certains dossiers et la transmission des avis de non objection. Enfin, la Banque a


                                                      - 51 -

approuvé la demande de prorogation de la première phase de l'EQPT de deux ans, ce qui a permis
d'atteindre en décembre 2005 un taux de décaissement de 100%.

Cependant, il a été noté au début du programme des retards dans l'exécution des activités et qui étaient dus
dans une large mesure aux longs délais dans la délivrance des Avis fe Non Objection. De même, malgré la
préparation et de la validation à temps des POBA, la banque n'a jamais donné un avis de non objection
global destiné à accélérer le processus de mise en oeuvre.

IV. LEÇONS APPRISES

Les principaux enseignements tirés de la mise en oeuvre de la première phase de l'EQPT s'articulent de
manière générale autour des points suivants :

1.       Préparation du programme
    L'insuffisance de l'analyse de départ qui s'est traduit par :
l l'inexistence de document d'évaluation finale du Programme de Développement des Ressources
    Humaines (PDRH) ;
l une approche trop technicienne et un processus de participation peu ouvert aux enseignants et à la
    société civile ;
l un système de planification trop centralisé mettant en avant les Directions et services centraux laissant
    ainsi peu de place à une participation responsable des acteurs du niveau déconcentré/décentralisé ;
l des PRDE tardivement élaborés (deux ans après le démarrage de la 1ère phase) et de ce fait faiblement
    exécutés au cours de cette étape ;
l un système de suivi évaluation conçu après démarrage des activités et qui est encore en phase de
    construction avec des acteurs insuffisamment outillés ;
l des indicateurs peu élaborés par composante et par sous-secteur, qui ne permettent pas toujours de
    rendre compte de la pertinence et de l'efficacité des interventions ; et
l l'inexistence d'un plan de communication de proximité au moment de la préparation et destiné aux
    enseignants, aux communautés et aux syndicats.

2.       Mise en oeuvre du programme
    Les leçons tirées du point de vue de la mise en oeuvre du programme s'articulent principalement autour
    de :
l La formation des acteurs revêt une importance de taille dans la réussite de l'approche programme en
    particulier dans le démarrage des activités ;
l La première phase a permis de pointer du doigt l'attention particulière qui doit être accordée aux
    activités d'enseignement/ apprentissage compte tenu de leur caractère sensible. A ce titre, la réussite de
    la plupart des activités surtout celles liées à l'amélioration de la qualité doivent être entreprises en
    début d'année scolaire en vue d'optimiser l'impact sur les acquis des élèves, étudiants et autres
    apprenants ;
l L'adoption d'une planification décentralisée, ascendante, contractualisée et partenariale et
    l'introduction de la gestion par les résultats fondent les bases du développement durable de
    l'éducation ;
l La stratégie d'élargissement de l'accès à l'éducation jusqu'ici axée sur l'offre devrait désormais
    explorer les conditions d'une meilleure prise en charge de la demande éducative en mettant davantage
    l'accent sur les attentes des communautés et les besoins du marchés ;
l L'entrée par les ressources a tendance à limiter voir inhiber les initiatives et la recherche de solutions
    là où les problèmes se posent avec acuité; mais surtout participe à développer une vision parcellaire
    des enjeux et défis de l'éducation ;


                                                       - 52 -

l la capacitation des IA, IDEN et collectivités locales en instruments de pilotage de programmes et
   projets éducatifs, s'est vite posée de manière urgente au cours de la première phase et devrait être
   convenablement traitée pour la deuxième phase ;
l La communication est un facteur déterminant pour informer, sensibiliser, conscientiser et mobiliser
   les acteurs et partenaires ; sans communication les processus de concertation et de participation
   risquent d'être hypothéqués ; et
l En l'absence de l'amélioration de la qualité la durabilité des progrès reste compromise. En effet, les
   efforts dans l'extension du réseau risquent d'être vains si, au demeurant, aucune mesure corrective
   n'est envisagée pour de meilleurs rendements internes.

V. MESURES A PRENDRE PAR LE GOUVERNEMENT

Le Gouvernement du Sénégal prendre les mesures idoines pour mettre en oeuvre les recommandations
suivantes :

1.     Au niveau des départements ministériels
l Veiller à la stabilité institutionnelle du secteur en réduisant les remaniements les éclatements des
   ministères en charge de l'éducation ;
l Systématiser les coordinations internes pour l'avancement du PDEF ;
l Veiller à la cohérence globale du système en promouvant le rapprochement des différents départements
   ministériels impliqués de près ou de loin dans la gestion du secteur ; et
l Maintenir la politique actuelle d'allocation budgétaire au secteur avec un accroissement de l'efficacité
   des dépenses en matière d'éducation et l'amélioration des mécanismes de traçabilité.

2.     Au niveau des directions et services centraux
l Améliorer la coordination technique du programme et le volet communication en assurant un partage
   du PDEF à la base ;
l OEuvre à la création d'une direction de l'éducation de base suite à la loi sur l'obligation scolaire jusqu'à
   16 ans et accroître de manière significative les investissements dans le moyen ;
l Activer le processus d'élaboration et d'implantation du nouvel organigramme du Ministère de
   l'Education ;
l Instaurer le système d'imputabilité des résultats, et ceci à tous les niveaux ;
l Améliorer la qualité du pilotage et de la coordination du programme à travers une définition claire des
   rôles et responsabilités de chaque structure ;
l Améliorer l'appui accompagnement du niveau déconcentré
l Réviser les mécanismes de gestion financière du programme en vue de la rendre beaucoup plus fluide et
   conforme aux exigences des activités des sous-secteurs ; et
l Renforcer les capacités des différentes structures au niveau central et déconcentré/décentralisé sur la
   base d'un plan et d'une stratégie pertinents.

3.     Structures déconcentrées
l Procéder à l'évaluation des capacités dans les IA et les IDEN et au sein des collectivités locales ;
l Professionnaliser certains postes dans les IA et les IDEN en recrutant par exemple des chargés de
   suivi- évaluation ;
l Assurer une meilleure synergie avec les collectivités locales dans l'exécution du programme ;
l Systématiser des évaluations externes pour le PRDE dans chaque région ;
l Renforcer la communication intra-structure et inter-structure ;
l Impulser une dynamique d'implication et de participation beaucoup plus active des différents acteurs
   par IA et les IDEN ; et


                                                     - 53 -

l Assurer un meilleur suivi régulier et de proximité des actions dans les circonscriptions.


4.      Collectivités locales
l Jouer pleinement leur rôle en matière de gestion décentralisée de l'éducation ;
l Apporter plus de lisibilité dans les réalisations consenties; et
l Accroître la part du budget allouée aux dépenses d'éducation.


VI. RECOMMANDATIONS EN DIRECTION DE LA BANQUE (IDA)

l Réduire les délais de traitement des dossiers et écourter les procédures de délivrance des avis de non
    objection ;
l Accélérer les processus d'évaluation de la phase 2 du programme et de déclenchement de phase ;
l Se prononcer de façon claire et sans équivoque sur la programmation en vue d'éviter les nombreux
    glissements de la planification du programme en particulier par rapport au POBA qui accuse souvent
    du retard dans l'exécution ; et
l Elargir davantage les missions de supervision au niveau déconcentré.




                                                    - 54 -

Additional Annex 9. Assessments of Triggers to phase 2

Table: Assessment of Triggers for Phase 2 of QEFA
Trigger                      Criteria for              Assessments of           Comments
                             Evaluating Phase 2        Triggers
                             Triggers
1. Access to education:      The georeferenced         All school facilities in Overall the trigger is
Agreement between the        school map is in place    Senegal are              marginally achieved.
Ministry of Education and and operational; the         georeferenced and are    This rating is based on
local government officials local collectivities are    being introduced in the  the results achieved on
regarding the details of the familiar with it and      management               georeferencing at the
school mapping exercise      use it for preparing the  information system.      IDEN level, which
as a basis for planning      PDDE.                     Planners at the central  represents the
comprehensive regional                                 and decentralized--      technical advisor for
plans (PRDE) and                                       departmental             local government on
departmental plans                                     education inspectorate, school mapping.
(PDDE) for the                                         (IDEN)-- levels are
development of education.                              familiar with it but are
                                                       not yet using it for
                                                       preparing the PDDE.
2: Quality of education:     Multigrade teaching       The test was
Evaluation of the various    has been conducted in     conducted in 603
pilot testing initiatives    500 schools.              classes in five
conducted during phase 1                               IDENs--Kaffrine,
and decision for phase 2                               Tivaouane, Mbour,
taken                                                  Bambey and Diourbel.     Overall, the trigger is
                             School/family reading     1,310 primary schools    achieved. On the basis
                             initiatives have been     received school          of the assessments
                             developed in 10 to 15     grants--1,035 funded     made across, we can
                             schools.                  by the International     conclude that the
                                                       Development Agency       various pilot initiatives
                                                       (IDA) and 275            were tested and
                                                       financed by other        evaluated. The
                                                       donors. Pilot exceeded   government of Senegal
                                                       expectations and         has decided to extend
                                                       should be considered     (i) multigrade teaching
                                                       for generalization.      initiatives, and (ii)
                             National languages in     The initiative was       school grants. The
                             grades 1, 2, and 3        tested and evaluated.    results of the
                             have been introduced      The evaluation shows     standardized
                             and evaluated.            that: professional       assessment are being
                                                       development was          completed under
                                                       insufficient; local      phase 2. The reading
                                                       languages were           initiative pilot is not
                                                       integrated               conclusive and
                                                       sporadically, the        decision has been
                                                       initiative took place at taken to merge it with
                                                       the classroom level      the school grants.



                                                     - 55 -

                                                 rather than             Considering the
                                                 school-wide level;      national language
                                                 there was a lack of     initiative, the
                                                 school textbooks and    government has
                                                 pedagogic, reading      decided to pursue the
                                                 and other support       pilot during phase 2
                                                 materials as well as    of QEFA while
                                                 training sessions. The  correcting the
                                                 Government has          difficulties
                                                 decided to pursue the   experienced under
                                                 pilot while correcting  phase 1
                                                 difficulties on
                                                 implementing the pilot.
                         Standardized            The assessment was
                         assessment of student   conducted by the
                         learning has been       National Institute of
                         conducted for grade 4.  Studies and Action for
                                                 the Development of
                                                 Education (Institut
                                                 National d'Etudes et
                                                 d'Action pour le
                                                 Développement de
                                                 l'Education,
                                                 INEADE) in 2002.
                                                 The results of this
                                                 assessment were
                                                 discussed with the
                                                 actors and are used to
                                                 implement and
                                                 monitor the quality
                                                 component.
3. Decentralized         A sectoral policy for   The sectoral policy for
management of the        vocational training is  vocational training
education system.        adopted and agreed      was adopted.
Existence of sufficient  with stakeholders.
capacity to manage the   The financial           The financial model
education system at the  framework based on      has been revised for
regional level           the simulation model    QEFA 2. It has been
                         prepared by the         discussed with the
                         Ministry of Education   Ministry of Finance     The assessment made
                         with CREA support       and other donors.       across indicates that
                         has been revised; an                            the trigger has been
                         updated, sustainable                            achieved since
                         version has been                                sufficient capacities
                         adopted by the                                  have been developed at
                         Ministry of Education                           the school inspection
                         and Ministry of                                 office (IA) level to
                         Economy and                                     manage phase 2 of



                                               - 56 -

Finances (MEF) and                              QEFA.
has received the
approval of the
development partners.
Capacity for financial   QEFA 1 has
management in the        reinforced financial
regions has been put in management
place and is judged      capacities at the
acceptable by IDA.       regional level. School
                         projects and IA/IDEN
                         action plans have been
                         managed at IA level in
                         a satisfactory manner.




                       - 57 -

Additional Annex 10. Components presentation

                                          ORIGINAL COMPONENTS

Phase 1 of QEFA had three main components, each of which had subcomponents that covered all levels of
Senegal's education system--from preschool to university.


                                                                   Appraisal estimate total cost
                                                                         (US$ million)
                           Component                                                    Gouv and
                                                                   Total       IDA        others
                                                                                         donors

Increasing access to education                                      637.00       29.60       607.40
Improving the quality of education                                  243.00       12.75       230.25
Strengthening capacity for decentralized management                  45.35        7.00        38.35
PPF                                                                   0.65        0.65         0.00
Total                                                               926.00       50.00       876.00
Note : Figures in this table are those from appraisal in 1999

Component 1: Increasing Access to Education. This component sought to increase the coverage and
equity of education by emphasizing the expansion of primary and lower secondary school enrollments; and
with a particular focus on enhancing the participation of girls and boys living in under-served regions, as well
as children with special learning needs. Its sub-components include:

At the basic education level the program aims at increasing the coverage and equity of education
through:

(i)      Constructing of Early Childhood Development centers aiming at preparing and establishing the
institutional framework and operational arrangements to be tested and evaluated in at least 5 regions with
180 centers.

(ii)     Constructing of primary school classrooms in order to increase the number of primary and lower
secondary places, with a focus on rural areas, and on accessibility for girls through the effective
implementation of a Memorandum of Agreement between MEN and the local collectivities; the construction
of about 6000 primary school classrooms, of which 1000 funded under IDA credit as well as the replacement
of 600 temporary shelters; reduction of the maximum average difference between regions in terms of
classroom/school-age child from 64% to 42% in 2003; creation of a database showing average differences in
classroom/school-age child within regions and departments, and between urban and rural settings, and
reduction by one-third of these average differences; creation of a geo-referenced school map leading to
reducing by one-third between 2000 and 2003 of the total number of homes located more than 4 km from
the nearest school.

(iii)    Retrofitting of primary schools with latrines and wells, rehabilitation, and maintenance
through rehabilitating approximately 1,800 classrooms covering about 60% of identified needs; retrofitting
570 schools with wells representing 22% of identified needs and retrofitting 1,080 schools with latrines,
representing 46% of identified needs; and testing of the maintenance programs in 3 regions.

(iv)     Developing neighborhood middle schools in selected regions and areas in order to test the new
concept; build 200 middle school classrooms each year; and rehabilitate about 300 run-down middle school
classrooms.



                                                           - 58 -

(v)      Introducing multigrade teaching strategies in order to eliminate all incomplete primary school
cycles; prepare a multigrade teaching module for pre-service training in the EFIs and for in-service training
for 1000 teachers; train IDENs in management of multigrade programs and pilot testing in Kaffrine,
Tivaouane, Mbour, Bambey and Diourbel.

(vi)     Strengthening special needs education (SNE) aiming at identifying special education needs,
strategy, monitoring and evaluation system; and testing the strategy in a pilot program.

At the secondary general, technical and professional level, the program focuses on constructing and
rehabilitating classrooms and developing small-scale rural secondary schools as well as improving technical
and vocational training institutions. More specifically, emphasis has been on:

(i)      Constructing and rehabilitating classrooms and developing small-scale rural secondary
schools in order to relieve congestion in classrooms of existing schools; rehabilitating run-down buildings;
developing an efficient maintenance system as well as constructing 30 new secondary school classrooms; and
rehabilitating about 165 classrooms.

(ii)     Improving technical and vocational training through developing a new policy for the sub-sector;
identifying strategies and new financing mechanisms before planning an investment program; and developing
and consolidating a limited technical training program by extension (9 classrooms) and rehabilitating (19
classrooms) in existing technical secondary schools as well as preparing an investment plan in line with the
new policy and strategy.

At the higher education level the objectives are to increase access to higher education through creating a
network of community colleges (CUR) and better supporting private provision of higher education. Specific
activities include:

(i)      Creating a network of community colleges (CUR) with the extension the Central Library of
UCAD; rehabilitating and completing the Thiès Polytechnic School; and preparing feasibility study for
financing and constructing the Bambey community college.

(ii)     Providing a greater support for private higher education through implementing the
recommendations of the national seminar held by MEN in 1999 with private sector participation aiming at
improving student enrollments in private higher education to 19% in mid-2000.

Component 2: Improving the quality of schooling. The objective of this component is to improve access
to learning, particularly for primary and lower secondary education through a series of innovations, with
particular emphases on the teaching of reading as well as the conditions, strategies and policies which
support learning.

At the basic education level emphasis is put on improving the quality of teaching and learning in order to
favor universal primary education by increasing demand for schooling and lowering repetition and drop-out
rates. This objective is achieved by:

(i)      Improving early childhood development initiatives through elaborating and testing models and
materials for low-cost activities and programs at the community level by using action research; developing an
integrated approach to include nutrition, health, cognitive and psycho-social development; emphasizing
family literacy strategies as a transition to primary schooling; testing the new integrated model in 180 centers;
and hiring 450 instructors by communities to be trained by the IDENs.




                                                        - 59 -

(ii)     Implementing a school-based small grants program for primary and lower secondary school
improvement and staff development through designing an initiative to strengthen the capacity of schools
and teachers to implement the pedagogical reforms of the PDEF; developing a manual of procedures for a
competitive small grants program financing primary school improvement initiatives and staff training;
implementing the proposed system in three test regions; establishing school committees, training IDEN
personnel, teachers, and parents' association representatives and informing community members; for the test
regions, creating and training juries within the IDENs to appraise proposals, and juries within the IAs to take
responsibility for final selection; testing the system; evaluating the results in comparing the pilot school
results with results in control group schools; and drawing appropriate lessons from the testing experience,
disseminating the results and developing instruments for the extension of the program in subsequent phases.

(iii)    Implementing Dakar peri-urban initiatives through developing a strategy and feasibility study;
defining norms; preparing standardized models for construction, and adapting the school mapping criteria to
densely populated urban settings.

(iv)     Developing school/family reading initiatives aiming at improving students' reading and
understanding skills; testing these initiatives in a limited number of schools; providing and purchasing a small
collection of 20-30 reading books, some of them in local languages to be made available in primary
classrooms in 10-15 schools in all of the 41 IDENs.

(v)      Introducing national languages for initial literacy training and transition to French through
introducing a pilot program focusing on six languages for some 400 classrooms; preparing the sequence of
developing the new curriculum one grade level per year; developing the curriculum for the first three grade
levels; and evaluating the implementation in the pilot schools for the first two grade levels.

(vi)     Developing of a school-level textbook and reading materials loan program aiming at
improving the availability and use of textbooks and reading materials in primary and middle schools
throughout the country; reprinting and distributing existing books from the first year of the program;
implementing a system of book stock management to assure the availability and effective distribution of 3
books per primary and secondary students; and training of INEADE personnel, teachers in implementing
the new strategy and providing information to parents; informing publishers' associations.

(vii)    Increasing students' learning capacity through a school-based health and nutrition program
by putting in place appropriate institutional arrangements between the Ministries of Education and Health;
developing a database on school health in order to identify the deficiencies/parasites for students by region;
developing mechanisms for the micronutrient supplement and anti-worming program; (iv) preparing teaching
materials and a family education program; (v) developing criteria, mechanisms and evaluation tools for the
pilot operation; (vi) selecting a region for implementation of the pilot operation; (vii) implementing the
program in the test region; (viii) evaluating the results of the pilot operation by drawing lessons for the
following phase.

(viii)   Providing Special Needs Education by supporting a national study including a survey on
prevalence and existing resources in this area; developing a policy and strategy focusing on the establishment
of inclusive models by which children with special needs can be integrated into existing schools; targeting of
a small number of schools with the appropriate characteristics for testing the strategy (demand, resources);
providing training programs to teacher trainers, along with an awareness campaign and mainstreaming SNE
coordinators; (v) pilot testing a small grants program to finance "inclusion project" schools; and (vi)
equipping existing SNE centers to be used as resource centers integrating children with special needs into
regular school programs.

(ix)     Introducing special initiatives targeting repetition and dropout by testing the initiative in a very



                                                        - 60 -

limited number of schools and IDENs; developing very simple protocols for each teacher to apply in his
class for each student in danger of failing the year; developing methods to evaluate the pilot testing;
identifying the schools to take part in the pilot test; training the school directors and teachers; evaluating the
results by comparing pilot schools to control group schools; and drawing conclusions for Phase 2.

(x)      Improving adult basic education program by supporting extension of the national literacy
program aiming at reducing illiteracy rates by 5% per year in the age group 15 to 49 years, of whom 75%
should be female; bringing the various literacy programs together with common procedures and a faster
implementation rate; and strengthening management capacity at decentralized level for the eventual transfer
of responsibilities from the center.

(xi)     Assessing students' learning through developing the internal evaluation system with a pilot
program in a limited number of classrooms; developing pre-service and in-service training modules; (ii)
selecting pilot program schools and training teachers in methods of internal evaluation; evaluating the pilot
program by measuring changes in classroom practice; establishing necessary institutional arrangements
among DPRE, INEADE, DEPEE, and DEMSG; analyzing the curricula in reading, writing and math;
developing evaluation instruments for Grades 4 and 9; and analyzing results and adjusting its evaluation
instruments; training teachers and administering Grades 4 and 9 tests to a sample of students.

(xii)    Developing a unified teacher training strategy through substantively changing the role for the
four teacher training schools (EFI) and the ENS in line with changes in curriculum and teacher recruitment
policy; setting-up homogeneous teacher training system leading to increases of the number of teachers from
500 to 2,500 per year, with two cohorts of 1,250 teachers each; and preparing and adopting policy measures
for the new operation of EFIs and ENS.

At the secondary general, technical and professional level emphasis is put on a series of initiatives
aiming at improving textbooks rental system, science and technology education as well as vocational and
technical education by:

(i)      Establishing a textbook rental system and providing textbook choice; designing, implementing
and testing a loan system in selected regions; and conducting, evaluating, expanding and readjusting the
auditing and evaluation of the system.

(ii)     Implementing a science education and technology development initiative by selecting
intervention areas for kits strategy; elaborating teaching modules; providing kits and training a group of
teachers for testing in selected pilot areas; conducting a comparative evaluation of this area with others; and
incorporating lessons learned in subsequent phases.

(iii)    Strengthening a vocational and technical education system aiming at ensuring closer linkages to
labor market needs; moving to approaches through which the private sector is in full partnership with the
Ministry of Education; and identifying new mechanisms to finance technical and vocational training;
preparing a new sectoral policy and strategies in partnership with the private sector; and creating a small
Vocational Training Support Fund with an administrative council consisting of Government, Employers, and
Employees.

At the higher education activities focusing on complementing existing support to the ongoing higher
education reform (PAES-Cr. 2872-SE) will improve by developing contractual approaches between the
MEN and the Universities; elaborating performance indicators representing a commitment by each public or
private faculty or institution to achieve specific results, including unit cost objectives per student trained; and
implementing a public information system to create transparency and to encourage results-based
accountability.



                                                        - 61 -

Component 3: Strengthening capacity for decentralized management aiming at modernizing and
strengthening education sector management by reinforcing MEN's capacity to set policies and guidelines for
the sector and improving the education system's capacity for service delivery. This objective will allow:

(i)      Improving personnel management by supporting the decentralization of personnel functions, and
establishing new ways to deliver services; creating a Directorate of Human Resources (DRH) for the
management of personnel issues currently ensured by DAGE within the MEN; revising primary school
teachers' career path, negotiated with the teachers' unions in order to establish consensus regarding a unified
career path for all teachers; progressively eliminating the current two-track system; recruiting approximately
2500 teachers each year; redeploying 700 nonteaching primary school personnel to teaching positions; and
reducing the percentage of substitute teachers by 50%.

(ii)     Strengthening the decentralized planning activities by supporting the new decentralized,
bottom-up, contract-based planning process launched in 1998; finalizing the departmental and regional
education development plans for 2000-2003; preparing resource allocation criteria before the end of 2000 by
DPRE; assessing and drawing lessons from the implementation of education development plans at the
regional and departmental levels from 2000-2003; and submitting to MEN and its partners by 2005, the
PRDE of all 10 regions for 2004-2007.

(iii)    Improving community participation in school management by reinforcing MEN's capacity to
support increased parental and community participation at central, regional and local levels; helping improve
school autonomy and the decentralization of decision-making at the school and local levels to better satisfy
the expectations and needs of students and communities; creating a communication unit within communities
in all operational directorates; and organizing awareness campaigns to inform all households in Senegal to
have a minimum understanding of the PDEF.

(iv)     Policy, monitoring and program evaluation sub-component aimed at creating capacity within
MEN at the central, regional and local levels to analyze policy issues, and to monitor and evaluate the
education program on a yearly basis. In order to reach this objective, an information system was put in place
and made operational in all directorates, IA and IDENs, and the first information flows from the system was
available to serve as baseline data for assessing the progress of the sector at the end of the project, as well as
to constitute the benchmark data for the 2004-2007 PRDE.

(v)      Improving management of financial flows and physical investment by supporting the
implementation of a program approach and the decentralization effort by establishing systems of financial
management and staff training at all levels; reinforcing capacity for managing financial and human resources
and procurement at the central level; and developing management capacity at the regional level to pave the
way for decentralization of financial and human resource management to this level during the second phase.




                                                      - 62 -

- 63 -

