Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3333-SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Quality Education For All Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 28, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3333-SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated February 
14, 2000, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to strengthen the Borrower’s educational sector 
(the Letter) and to implement a Ten-Year Education and Training Program 
(TYETP) (the Letter and the TYETP are collectively referred to as the 
Program), and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its 
execution of the Program through a series of Credits over a period of 10 
years, the proceeds of such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for 
implementing the Program;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
which forms the first phase of the Program, has requested the Association 
to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(D)
the Borrower intends to contract from several donors (the 
Donors) loans or grants in an amount equivalent to $70,000,000 (the Donor 
Page  2
funds) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Donors; 
(E)
Part B.14 of the Project will be carried out by AGENCE 
D’EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D’INTERET PUBLIC CONTRE LE SOUS-EMPLOI (AGETIP) 
with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to AGETIP a portion of the proceeds of the 
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of 
even date herewith between the Association and AGETIP;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
(a)
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
“If the Association shall at any time receive less than the 
full amount then due and payable to it under the Development Credit 
Agreement, the Association shall have the right to allocate and 
apply  the amount so received in any manner and for such purposes under 
the 
Development Credit Agreement as the Association shall in its sole 
discretion determine.”; and
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second 
sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of the said Section to read:
“Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be 
confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meaning:
(a)
“AGETIP” means Agence d’Exécution des Travaux d’Intérêt 
Public Contre le Sous-Emploi, a public works executing entity established 
in accordance with Law No. 66-70 of the Borrower, dated July 13, 1966;
(b)
“AWPB” means the annual work program and budget prepared by 
the Borrower for the purpose of the Project pursuant to paragraph 6 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Convention” means the agreement, dated January 7, 1993, 
entered into between the Borrower and AGETIP, as amended to date, and as 
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the 
AGETIP Manual of Procedures, and all other annexes, schedules and 
Page  3
attachments thereto;
(d)
“CNCS” means Comité National de Coordination et du Suivi, 
the National Coordination and Monitoring Committee, established by the 
Borrower for the purpose of ensuring coordination and monitoring of the 
Program;
(e)
“CONSEF” means Conseil Supérieur de l’Education et de la 
Formation, the High Council for Education and Training, established 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f)
“DAGE” means Direction de l'Administration Générale et de 
l’Equipement, the Directorate of General Administration and Equipment 
within MEN (as hereinafter defined);
(g)
“DPRE” means Direction de la Planification et de la Réforme 
de l’Education, the Directorate of Planning and Educational Reform, 
within MEN;
(h)
“FAFP” means Fonds d’Appui à la Formation Professionnelle, a 
fund to be established and maintained by the Borrower pursuant to Section 
3.07 (iii) of this Agreement, for the purpose of providing Vocational 
Training Micro Projects (as hereinafter defined);
(i) 
“FCFA” means Franc de la Communauté Financière d’Afrique, 
the currency of the Borrower; 
(j)
“Financial Procedures Manual” means the manual adopted by 
the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement containing, 
inter alia, details on the procedures regarding financial management to 
be used in the implementation of the Project and such term includes any 
schedules to the Financial Procedures Manual;
(k)
“INEADE” means Institut National d'Etudes et d'Action pour 
le Développement de l'Education, the Borrower’s National Institute for 
Studies and Action for Education Development;
(l)
“Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 
3.08 (iii) of this Agreement;
(m)
“Literacy Grant” means the grant provided under Part B.14 of 
the Project;
(n)
“Literacy Manual of Procedures” means the manual containing 
the details regarding the implementation of Part B.14 of the Project and 
such term includes any schedules to the Literacy Manual of Procedures;
(o)
“Literacy Subproject” means a specific activity or group of 
activities pertaining to literacy improvement, designed and implemented 
by a committee, non-governmental organization, women or producers’ group 
that organizes and carries out such activities, financed or proposed to 
be financed, through grants under Part B.14 of the Project;
(p)
“Literacy Subproject Beneficiary” means a recipient of the 
grants provided under Part B.14 of this Project, which may include a 
committee, non-governmental organization, women, or producers’ group; 
(q)
“MEN” means Ministère de l’Education Nationale, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Education;
Page  4
(r)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators for Project 
supervision specified in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(s) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Association and AGETIP, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(t)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 
3.08 of this Agreement;
(u)
“Program Implementation Manual” means the manual adopted by 
the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement containing, 
inter alia, work plans, training plans and procedures to be used for the 
purpose of implementation of the Program, including infrastructure 
maintenance, and such term includes any schedules to the Program 
Implementation Manual;
(v)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(w)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the Letter 
Agreement, dated October 5, 1999; 
(x)
“School Improvement Subproject” means a specific activity or 
group of activities pertaining to improvement in teaching at schools, 
designed by a school teacher or group of teachers, financed or proposed 
to be financed, through grants under Part B.1 of this Project;
(y)
“School Improvement Subproject Beneficiary” means the 
recipient of the grants provided under Part B.1 of this Project, which 
may include a school teacher or group of teachers;
(z)
“School Improvement Grant” means the grant provided under 
Part B1 of the Project;
(aa)
“School Improvement Grant Manual of Procedures” means the 
manual containing the details regarding the implementation of Part B.1 of 
the Project and such term includes any schedules to the School 
Improvement Grant Manual of Procedures;
(bb)
“Special Account” means any of the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(cc)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and AGETIP pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such terms 
includes any schedule to the Subsidiary Agreement;
(dd)
“Territorial Collectivity” means territorial collectivity as 
defined by the Borrower’s Decentralization law No. 96-06 dated February 
5, 1996 ;
(ee)
“Vocational Training Grant” means the grant provided under 
Part B.11 of the Project;
(ff)
“Vocational Training Manual of Procedures” means the manual 
containing the details regarding the implementation of Part B.11 of the 
Project and such term includes any schedules to the Vocational Training 
Page  5
Manual of Procedures;
(gg)
“Vocational Training Microproject” means a specific activity 
or group of activities pertaining to the improvement of vocational 
training, designed by a school teacher or group of teachers, financed or 
proposed to be financed, through grants under Part  B.11 of this Project; 
and
(hh)
“Vocational Training Microproject Beneficiary” means the 
recipient of the grants provided under Part B.11 of this Project, which 
may include a school teacher or group of teachers.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
36,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of :
(i)
the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(other than Parts B.1 and B.11 thereof), and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and 
amounts 
paid (or if the Association shall so agree, to 
be paid) 
by MEN on account of withdrawals made by a 
School 
Improvement Subproject Beneficiary or a 
Vocational 
Training Micro-project Beneficiary under 
a School 
Improvement Sub-project or a Vocational 
Training 
Micro-project, to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and 
services required for a School 
Improvement Subproject 
or a Vocational Training 
Micro-project, and in respect 
of which the withdrawals 
from the Credit Account is 
requested; and 
(ii) 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(other than Part B.14 thereof), and to be financed 
out 
of the proceeds of the Credit and amounts paid (or if 
the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by AGETIP 
on account of withdrawals made by a Literacy 
Subproject 
Beneficiary under a Literacy Sub-project, to 
meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for a 
Literacy Sub-project, and in respect of which 
the 
withdrawals from the Credit Account is 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain, in FCFA, a separate special deposit account for purposes of 
Parts A, B (excluding Part B.14) and C of the Project (the MEN Special 
Account), and a separate special deposit account for purposes of Part 
B.14 ( the AGETIP Special Account), both in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
Page  6
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project 
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay 
all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, commencing April 
15, 2010 and ending October 15, 2039. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on October 15, 2019 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national 
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three consecutive years the level established annually by the Association 
for determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and 
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, 
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower 
to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
Page  7
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a 
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise 
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu 
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to 
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision 
shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its 
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall:
(i)
carry out Parts A, B (excluding B.14) and C of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and management practices and in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this 
Agreement, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for such Parts A, B (excluding B.14) and C 
of the 
Project;
(ii)
cause AGETIP to carry out Part B.14 of the Project, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and 
management practices, and in accordance with the 
provisions of the Convention;
(iii)
cause AGETIP to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations 
of AGETIP therein set forth;
(iv)
take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AGETIP 
to 
perform such obligations; and
(v)
refrain from taking or permitting to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such 
Page  8
performance of AGETIP.
(b)
The Borrower shall, under a Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable 
to the Association, make the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part 
B.14 of the Project, available to AGETIP on a non-reimbursable basis and 
under such terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Convention 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Convention or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that 
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AGETIP, pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than October 31, 
2000, adopt and carry out an action plan to rationalize the management of 
teachers, in form and substance acceptable to the Association; (ii) not 
later than October 31, 2000, finalize and adopt a charter on cost 
recovery in the schools and universities; (iii) not later than December 
31, 2000, prepare and adopt an action plan for the improvement of the 
internal efficiency in schools including inter alia, drop-out/repetition, 
length of school year and teaching hours; (iv) not later than December 
31, 2000, adopt a specific plan including procedures for the management 
of direct grants to primary, middle and secondary schools; and (v) not 
later than June 30, 2001, prepare and adopt a policy strategy and work 
program for the privatization of textbook publication and distribution.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall: (i) not later than one month 
after the Effective Date, establish FAFP, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) not later than December 31, 
2000, prepare and adopt, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, (A) the Literacy Manual of Procedures, and (B) the 
Vocational Training Manual of Procedures.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to 
employ and maintain until the completion of the Project, an adequate 
number of staff with terms of reference acceptable to the Association.
Page  9
Section 3.08. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01, 
the Borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project: (i) open and maintain 
until the completion of the Project, an account (the Project Account), on 
terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; (ii) deposit into the 
Project Account an initial amount equivalent to FCFA 25,000,000 (the 
Initial Deposit); (iii) thereafter annually deposit into the Project 
Account an amount equivalent to the Initial Deposit or any other amount 
required for further implementation of the Project as agreed between the 
Borrower and the Association; and (iv) ensure that the amounts deposited 
into the Project Account shall be used exclusively for the purposes of 
defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for the execution of the 
Project, and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section including those for the 
Special 
Accounts for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently 
applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in 
any case not later than six months after the end of 
each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
Page  10
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action 
plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower, not 
later than 18 months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project management reports, 
acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds 
for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report, and 
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by 
said report and expenditures proposed to 
be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit during 
the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of 
the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter 
a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) 
namely that a situation has arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out; and
(b)
AGETIP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely the event 
Page  11
specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur 
and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions :
(a)
the Borrower has, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, appointed an auditor for 
purposes of Article IV of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has adopted a Program Implementation Manual, in 
form and substance acceptable to the Association;
(c)
MEN has entered into: (i) an agreement with the 
Maître 
d’ouvrage délégué, and (ii) a Protocole d’Accord with the Associations 
des Elus Locaux, both in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has: (i) established a financial management and 
accounting system, satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) adopted a 
Financial Procedures Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association; 
(e)
the Borrower has completed the procurement plan for the 
first two years of the Project; 
(f)
the Borrower has approved the AWPB for the first year of the 
Project, in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions paragraph 6 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and AGETIP; and
(h)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited 
therein the amount of the Initial Deposit.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by AGETIP, and is legally binding upon AGETIP in accordance with 
its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and AGETIP, and is legally binding upon the 
Borrower and AGETIP in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Page  12
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
B. P. 4017 
Rue Rene Ndiaye
Dakar
Senegal
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the city of Dakar, Republic of Senegal, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Makhtar Sop Diop
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ James D. Wolfensohn
President
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
Page  13
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works 
   8,100,000
95% 
(2)
Goods
   7,400,000
100% of foreign
(including textbooks)
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ services   8,200,000
100%
(including training, 
audit and contractual 
staff)
(4)
Grants
100%
(a)
Literacy Grants  5,000,000
Under Part B.14
(b)
School Improve-  1,800,000
ment Grants Under 
Part B.1
(c)
Vocational 
     400,000
Training Grants 
Under Part B.11
(5)
AGETIP Fees
     100,000
100%
(6)
Operating Costs
(a)
Under all Parts   800,000
90%
 (excluding 
Parts
B.14 and C.10)
(b)
Under Part C.10 1,400,000
50%
(7)
Refunding of
     500,000
Amount due
Project pursuant 
to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
   3,000,000
TOTAL
  36,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that, if the currency of 
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; and
Page  14
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including maintenance of equipment, office supplies, vehicle 
operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement; (b) in respect of payments made for 
expenditures for goods and services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under any other 
credit or grant; (c) in respect of payments made against Category 4 (a), 
unless the Literacy Manual of Procedures has been adopted and Literacy 
Subproject is made in accordance with the criteria and terms and 
conditions specified in paragraph 11 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (d) 
in respect of payments made against Category 4 (b), unless the School 
Improvement Grant Manual of Procedures has been adopted, and the School 
Improvement Subproject is made in accordance with the criteria and terms 
and conditions specified in paragraph 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
and (e) in respect of payments made against Category 4 (c), unless the 
Vocational Training Manual of Procedures has been adopted, and Vocational 
Training Micro-project is made in accordance with the criteria and terms 
and conditions specified in paragraph 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: 
(i) goods and works, under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; (ii) services of consulting firms, under contracts 
costing less that $100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) services of 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to establish 
a framework for universal primary education (UPE) in its territory. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Increasing Access to Basic Education 
1.
Increasing coverage and equity of education by expanding primary 
and lower secondary school enrollment with special emphasis on enhancing 
the participation of girls and boys living in under-served regions, 
through: (i)
the construction and rehabilitation of about 1600 primary 
school classrooms; (ii) retrofitting of about 700 primary schools with 
latrines and wells; and (iii) provision of technical advisory services 
and acquisition of equipment for the development and implementation of a 
communications campaign aimed at increasing the demand for schooling. 
2.
Development of a new model of small scale rural secondary school 
for general, technical and professional education.
3
Expansion of community colleges along with greater support of 
private provision of higher education through the provision of technical 
Page  15
advisory services and acquisition of equipment.
Part B:
Improving the Quality of Schooling 
1.
Improving the quality and internal efficiency of primary and 
general secondary education by reducing dropout and repetition rates and 
improving students’ academic achievements, especially in rural and 
under-served areas, and among girls, through the establishment and 
operation of a school-based small grants program to empower schools to 
develop plans for improvement of learning quality, including 
decentralization of resource administration to the school level.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of 
equipment for childhood development, including: (i) for the development 
of models and materials for low-cost, scaleable initiatives for improving 
education at the community level; (ii) to facilitate the design of 
policy, norms, and training packages, and targeting IEC to vulnerable 
groups; and (iii) to facilitate capacity-building of NGOs and other 
private sector care providers in support of ongoing community-driven 
early childhood development. 
3.
Acquisition of small collections of 20-30 reading books for about 
1000 classrooms including those in local languages, and implementation of 
a program to identify national authors and develop books with locally 
relevant content.  
4.
Provision of training for teachers to facilitate comprehension and 
implementation of a system to develop children’s reading habit. 
5. 
(a)
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of 
equipment to
revise the curriculum to harmonize it with the rapidly 
changing requirements and with the socio-cultural and economic needs of 
rural areas and gender issues.
(b)
Carrying out of a pilot program in about 200 classrooms to 
develop a strategy for moving from the child’s own language to the use of 
French language over a three- to four- year period. 
6. 
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of 
equipment for the development and implementation of a
multiple-title 
system (several different series per subject area) under which publishers 
will be invited to propose textbook series based on national guidelines 
to be developed by INEADE, including reprinting of existing books, 
development of procedures, training program and bidding documents for 
multiple title system.
7.
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of 
equipment for the carrying out of pilot programs focussing on health and 
nutrition interventions that are low cost and easy to deliver, including 
a micronutrient supplement and deworming initiative, and a family 
education program including an anti-STD campaign.
8.
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of 
equipment for the development of proactive approaches to identifying and 
providing support for various marginalized groups of children, including 
those with physical and mental handicaps and special learning needs, and 
to assist the three existing special education institutions to integrate 
children with special needs into regular school programs. 
9.
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of 
equipment to develop and implement special initiatives targeting the 
reduction of repetition and dropout rates including the establishment and 
Page  16
operation of a  remedial study program.  
10.
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of 
equipment for upgrading curriculum and teaching methodology in teacher 
training schools and the 
Ecole Nationale Supérieure in line with changes 
in curriculum and teacher recruitment policy, including the development 
of pre-and in-service training programs for school directors and 
inspectors, including distance learning. 
11.
Provision of technical advisory services for the preparation of a 
new policy for the vocational training sub-sector, and establishment of a 
demand-driven small-scale grant program to test mechanisms to finance 
technical education and vocational training micro-projects linked to the 
labor market needs.
12.
Provision of technical advisory services to MEN to complement the 
existing support to the Borrower’s on-going higher education reform 
program, focusing on developing contractual approaches aimed at more 
autonomy and accountability of the public institutions, and expansion of 
private institutions.
13.
Establishment of a
text book loan system. 
14.
Provision of grants to Literacy Subproject Beneficiaries for 
financing Literacy Subprojects and  supervision and evaluation thereof.
Part C:
Strengthening Capacity for Decentralized Management 
1.
Modernizing and strengthening education sector management system, 
through the provision of technical advisory services to MEN to assist it 
to set policies and guidelines for the sector and improve the education 
system's capacity for delivering education services.
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to facilitate the 
decentralization of education functions, and establish new ways to 
deliver services, including testing of new processes, procedures and 
systems during the first years of Program implementation.
3.
Carrying out of a review of the legal framework for the education 
sector to facilitate the management of educational activities at the 
regional and school levels.
4.
Carrying out of a review of the career plan and the performance 
incentive system for teachers, principals, supervisors and technical 
staff.
5.
Provision of training and technical advisory services to assist MEN 
develop program management capacity within its central, departmental and 
regional directorates.
6. 
Strengthening of the information management and planning capacity 
in the education sector at the central, regional and local levels 
including the establishment and implementation of a system to increase 
parent and community participation in school management and provision of 
training for the Associations des parents d’élèves. 
7.
Provision of technical advisory services and acquisition of 
equipment to
create capacity within MEN at the central, regional and 
local levels to analyze policy issues, monitor and evaluate the education 
program on a yearly basis, including development of instruments for 
Page  17
monitoring the different parts of the Program. 
8.
Establishment of financial management systems for all levels 
including introduction of program budgeting, execution and audit, for MEN 
at the central, regional, local and school levels, and provision of 
training for MEN staff, in areas related thereto. 
9.
Provision of technical advisory services, acquisition of equipment 
and logistical assistance to DAGE and DPRE in the management and 
coordination of the Program, including training related thereto.
10.
Provision of technical advisory services, equipment, logistical 
assistance and audit to the Territorial Collectivities, on a matching 
basis, for the maintenance of school facilities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised 
in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, (the 
Guidelines), and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and 
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts (i) for works shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more each, and 
(ii) for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost 
$100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Two-stage bidding procedure
The bidding procedure for the procurement of computerized 
information and communication system shall be carried out in two stages 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  18
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and 
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of 
the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $14,300,000 equivalent, and goods 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,150,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
2.
International Shopping
Library books and learning material estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3. National 
Shopping
All goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  19
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200,000 or more, for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first five contracts for works 
and goods estimated to cost between the equivalent of $30,000 and 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of the first five contracts 
procured under shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall 
provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications 
and the draft contract; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) 
and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph. The short list of consultants for services for: (i) 
architectural design and work supervision and communications campaigns 
under Part A.1 of the Project; (ii) operation manual under Part B.1 (a) 
of the Project; (iii) training and IEC to vulnerable groups under Part 
B.1 (b) of the Project; (iv) studies on health and nutrition under Part 
B.1 (g) of the Project; and (v) studies to develop decentralization 
functions under Part C.2 of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  20
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for audit under Part C of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services: (i) for the management of works contracts and related 
consultants for the design, supervision and control of the works under 
Part A.1 of the Project which are estimated to cost less than $750,000 
equivalent per contract; (ii) for the implementation of the financial and 
economic monitoring and evaluation system under Part C.7 of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and (iii) 
rendered by the contractual staff transferred from the Second Human 
Resources Development Project Unit and the PAES Unit to DPRE and DAGE, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for small studies and lectures under Parts B and C of the 
Project shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for 
its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after 
Page  21
the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with the 
Program Implementation Manual, and except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision 
thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver 
may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project and 
the Program. 
2.
MEN shall be responsible for implementation as well as overall 
coordination of the Program, through its technical divisions, and shall 
make all legal and administrative arrangements for the Territorial 
Collectivities to be responsible for budget execution of the education 
funds delegated to them as well as for the use of matching funds provided 
by MEN for maintenance. MEN shall work in close cooperation and 
interaction with CONSEF to oversee the management of resources provided 
under the Project.
3.
DAGE shall be responsible for overall management and reporting of 
the principal financial resources for the Project. Every quarter, 
commencing the second quarter of year 2000, the financial management 
committee, reporting to the technical committee, shall review DAGE’s 
program management report. DAGE shall: (i) coordinate, in relation with 
DPRE, the preparation of the Annual Operation Plans and Budgets for all 
parts of the Project regardless of origin of funds, including the 
Borrower’s resources for recurrent expenditures managed by MEN’s line 
agencies and resources delegated to autonomous institutions such as 
universities, or local governments; (ii) manage all investment resources, 
for the Borrower’s share of Project expenditures (excluding those under 
Part B.14 of the Project); (iii) monitor all expenditures incurred for 
education, including in particular local government resources; (iv) 
maintain and consolidate all Project accounts including the Special 
Accounts; (v) ensure that all reports and audits are provided to MEN, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Finance and Planning, and the Association; and 
(vi) prepare the quarterly Project Management Reports. 
4.
The Borrower shall, not later than one month after the Effective 
date, establish CONSEF, and cause CONSEF to be responsible for the 
oversight of the implementation of the TYETP. CONSEF shall be chaired by 
the Minister of Education and comprise MEN managers, representatives of 
the universities, representatives of the Borrower’s ministries, local 
governments, NGOs, and other representatives of the civil society such as 
trade-unions. CONSEF shall meet twice a year. 
5.
For the purpose of general coordination and monitoring of the 
Program, the Borrower shall establish and maintain CNCS.  CNCS shall 
inter alia be responsible for: (i) coordinating the activities carried 
out by public and private partners at both central and regional levels; 
(ii) coordinating the preparation of the AWPB and associated budgets of 
the Program by each implementing agencies; (iii) aggregating them into an 
AWPB for the Program and securing approval from MEN, in consultation with 
the Association and donors involved in the Program; and (iv) monitoring 
of the execution of the AWPB, including the monitoring of allocations of 
Page  22
the donors and the Borrower’s contribution, and where applicable 
contribution from other private sources. 
6.
The Borrower shall: (a) prepare and furnish to the Association, for 
comments and approval, a draft consolidated AWPB, not later than July 31 
each year, prior to the annual review referred to in paragraph 7 of this 
Schedule; (b) ensure that the yearly financing of the Program including 
public, community and external sources is met in accordance with the 
financing plan approved by the Borrower in connection with the Program; 
(c) make available to the regions and the districts, funding for the 
purposes of the respective part of the Program to be carried out at their 
level in amounts consistent with the AWPB; and (d) furnish to the 
Association progress reports based on time-bound performance indicators 
and use of funds before each annual review.
7. 
(a)
The Borrower shall, no later than November 30 of each year, 
carry out jointly with the Association and the Donors, a comprehensive 
annual project implementation review aimed at: (i) documenting progress 
toward objectives; (ii) identifying and resolving obstacles to project 
implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, 
targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project as of the date of the review, and ensuring 
responsiveness to changes to effectively achieve the objectives of the 
Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the 
review referred to in (a) above, furnish to the Association a report, 
which shall also include information based on the annually updated 
financial model and an annual report on maintenance of school buildings, 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an 
evaluation of the progress achieved in Project implementation.
(c)
Promptly after completing such reviews, the Borrower shall 
carry out recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association's comments thereon.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Performance Indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 2001, 
a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by May 31, 2001, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
Page  23
9.
Eligibility Criteria and Terms and Conditions of School Improvement 
Grants 
(a)
In providing Grants under Part B.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall follow the eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
(b)
For purposes of financing the Grants, the Borrower shall 
enter into appropriate arrangements with Grant beneficiaries, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall, inter alia, 
include the following:
(i)
the obligation of the Grant beneficiary to carry out 
the activities covered by the Grant with due 
diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, 
financial, environmental, managerial and 
participatory 
standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, 
in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of 
Grant; 
(ii)
the requirement that: (A) the goods services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring 
efficiency and economy, and (B) such goods and 
services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the 
Grant; and
(iii)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or 
jointly with the Association, if the Association 
shall 
so request, the goods and services included in the 
Grant, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and 
documents.
10.
Eligibility Criteria and Terms and Conditions of Vocational 
Training Grants 
(a)
In providing Grants under Part B.11 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall follow the eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual. 
(b)
For purposes of financing the Grants, the Borrower shall 
enter into appropriate arrangements with Grant beneficiaries, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall, inter alia, 
include the following:
(i)
the obligation of the Grant beneficiary to carry out 
the activities covered by the Grant with due 
diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, 
financial, environmental, managerial and 
participatory 
standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, 
in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of 
Grant; 
(ii)
the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to 
be 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring 
efficiency and economy, and (B) such goods and 
services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the 
Grant; and
Page  24
(iii)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or 
jointly with the Association, if the Association 
shall 
so request, the goods and services included in the 
Grant, the operations thereof and any relevant 
records and 
documents.
11.
Eligibility Criteria and Terms and Conditions of Literacy Grants 
(a)
In providing Grants under Part B.14 of the Project, AGETIP 
shall follow the eligibility criteria, procedures and guidelines set 
forth in the Literacy Manual of Procedures. 
(b)
For purposes of financing the Grants, AGETIP shall enter 
into appropriate arrangements with Grant beneficiaries, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall, inter alia, 
include the following:
(i)
the obligation of the Grant beneficiary to carry out 
the activities covered by the Grant with due 
diligence 
and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, 
financial, environmental, managerial and 
participatory 
standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, 
in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of 
the Grant; 
(ii)
the requirement that: (A) the goods and services to 
be 
financed from the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring 
efficiency and economy, and (B) such goods and 
services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the 
Grant; and
(iii)
the right of AGETIP to inspect by itself, or jointly 
with the Association, if the Association shall so 
request, the goods and services included in the 
Grant, 
the operations thereof and any relevant records 
and documents.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means: (i) in the case of the 
MEN Special Account, Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 (b), 4 (c) and 6 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) in the 
case of the AGETIP Special Account, Categories 4 (a) and 5 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means: 
(i)
in the case of the MEN Special Account, an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 2,400,000,000 to be withdrawn from 
Page  25
the Credit Account and deposited into the MEN Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 1,200,000,000 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
10,000,000; and 
(ii) 
in the case of the AGETIP Special Account, an amount 
equivalent to FCFA 700,000,000 to be withdrawn from 
the 
Credit Account and deposited into the AGETIP Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, 
provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 350,000,000 
the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special 
commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of 
SDR 2,500,000;
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Accounts of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Accounts 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the 
Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits 
into the Special Accounts at such intervals as 
the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the 
documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each 
such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Accounts 
such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by 
said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out 
of the Special Accounts for 
eligible expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association 
from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been 
justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
Page  26
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Accounts (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Page  27
Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
1.
At least 2% annual increase in national student achievement scores 
compared to existing baseline in French and Mathematics for Grade 4.
2.
Implementation of a norm of 20 teaching hours per week at the 
middle and secondary levels. 
3.
Reaching a textbook ratio of three books per primary and middle 
school student. 
4.
Percentage of operational budget for education allocated to primary 
schooling to increase from 40% to 44%, of which an increased amount 
allocated to quality enhancing expenditures.
5.
Primary school gross enrollment to reach 75% by 2002/2003 school 
year from 65% in 1998/1999, with an enrolment rate in the first year to 
reach 80% from 68%, and the percentage of girls in schools to reach 46% 
from 44%. 
6.
 Annual grade repetition to be reduced to a maximum of 10% by the 
completion of the Project. 
7.
FAFP to disburse a minimum of $150,000 annually.
8.
Implementation of a model which permits 1% of children between the 
age of three to five to be enrolled in the DPE.
9. 
Literacy training has been successfully provided to 120,000 
persons, including 75% women, between ages of 15 and 49, each year.
10.
Percentage of schools offering a complete cycle of six years to 
reach 80% from 64%.
11.
Reduction by 25% of the number of classes that fall outside the 
minimum and maximum norms for class size. 
