GFH4 31A~L LOAN NUMBER 2209 BT
DJOCUi M ENT
Loan Agreement
(Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BOTSWANA POWER CORPORATION
Dated               o         7.     ,1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2209 ET
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       - 7      1983, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and BOTSWANA POWER CORPORATION (herein-
after called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of part of the Project, described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the    Guarantor  intends   to  contract   from  African
Development Bank (hereinafter called ADB) a loan (hereinafter
called the ADB Loan) in an amount equivalent to 20 million Units
of Account of ADB to assist in financing part of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the ADB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Guarantor and ADB;
(C) the Guarantor intends to contract from Arab Bank for
Economic Development in Africa (hereinafter called BADEA) a loan
(hereinafter callad the BADEA Loan) in an amount of 10 million
dollars to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the
BADEA Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Guarantor
and BADEA;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from Commonwealth
Development Corporation (hereinafter called CDC) a loan (herein-
after called the CDC Loan) in an amount equivalent to $12.5 mil-
lion to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the CDC
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CDC;
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from European Invest-
ment Bank (hereinafter called EIB) a loan (hereinafter called the
EIB Loan) in an amount of 15 million ECU to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the EIB Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and EIB;
(F) the Guarantor intends to contract from Kuwait Fund for
Economic and Social Development (hereinafter called KF) a loan
(hereinafter called the KF Loan) in an amount of 2.9 million


﻿-2-
Kuwait Dinars to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the KF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the
Guarantor and KF;
(G) the Guarantor intends to contract from Saudi Fund for
Economic Development (hereinafter called SF) a loan (hereinafter
called the SF Loan) in an amount of 34.4 million Saudi Riyals
to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the SF
Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Guarantor and SF;
(H) the Borrower intends to contract from the Guarantor a
loan (hereinafter called the Guarantor Loan) in in amount equi-
valent to 59.6 million dollars to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Guarantor Agreement) to be entered into
between the Guarantor and the Borrower; and
(I) the Borrower intends to obtain additional financing,
including export credit financing for equipment, in an estimated
aggregate amount equivalent to 35 million dollars; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿-3-
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year starting
on April 1 and ending on March 31; and
(b) "Pula" means the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement ser forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-two million five hundred thousand dollars ($32,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.       The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to four hundred
eighty thousand two hundred ninety-six dollars ($480,296). The
fee shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the Bank
shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received
full payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required for the full payment of the fee in the
currency or currencies specified for the purpose.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for eaci Interest Period equal to
one-half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Bor-
rowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of
such Interest PeriL .
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) "Interest   Period"  means   the  six-month  period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified   Borrowings"  means   (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or        the
second six months of a calendar year.
(c) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
(d) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Section, the
interest rate for all Interest Periods commencing in 1982 shall
be 11.43% per annum.


﻿-5-
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out Parts A through E
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate financial, engineering and public
utilities practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A, B and C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering consultants whose qualifications and experience shall
be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for the carrying out of
Parts A through C of the Project against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace
or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts A through E of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through E
of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be
derived from them), to identify the goods and services financed


﻿-6-
out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in
Parts A through E of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in Parts A through E of the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular Intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning Parts A through E of the Project, their
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
them, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Guarantor, the Borrower and the Bank
of their respective obligations under the Guarantee Agreement and
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and for the operation of the facilities included
in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to
the Project.


﻿-7-
Section 3.06. By June 30, 1983, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Bank for its approval a training program to be
carried out under Part E of the Project.
Section 3.07. By December 31, 1983, the Borrower shall
furnish to, and exchange views with, the Bank on the recommenda-
tions of the studies carried out under Parts D.1 and D.2 of the
Project and shall take all such actions as shall be appropriate
based on such recommendations and taking into account any
comments of the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and public utilities practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management ascisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, administrative and public utilities practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. Before making any future appointment to the
position of Chief Executive Officer, the Borrower shall consult
the Bank with respect to the qualifications and experience of the
individual to be appointed to such position.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain accounts and
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have all its accounts
referred to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement 'and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than five
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of
the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will, ipso
facto, equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the
creation of any such lien express provisions will be made to that
effect, at no cost to the Bank: (i) if the Borrower shall create
any lien on any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien
will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property
or as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose
of financing the purchase of such property; or (B) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) The Borrower, from time to time, shall take or cause to
be taken, all such measures      (including, without limitation,
adjustments of the structure or levels of its electricity


﻿9
tariffs) as shall be required: (i) to yield, in Fiscal Year 1984
and in each of the Fiscal Years thereafter, an annual return of
not less than 8% of the average current net value of the B,,r-
rower's fixed assets in operation; and (ii) to generate for 's
Fiscal Years 1982 through 1987 funds from internal sources equi-
valent to not less than 20% of its aggregate capital expenditures
incurred, or expected to be incurred, during the Fiscal Years
1982 through 1987,
(b) Before December 31 in each of the Fiscal Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review the adequacy of its
tariffs to yield the annual return required under paragraph (a)
(i) of this Section in respect of such Fiscal Year ard the next
following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Bank the results
of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shall show that the Borrower would
not earn the annual return required under paragraph (a) (i) in
the course of the Fiscal Year covered by such review, the Bor-
rower shall promptly take all the necessary measures (including,
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
tariffs) in order to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph
(a) (i) of this Section.
(d) Before December 31 in each of the Fiscal Years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review the adequacy of its
tariffs to meet the requirement set forth in paragraph (a) (ii)
of this Section in respect of the time   eriod specified therein
and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon its
completion.   The Borrower shall promptly take all necessary
measures  (including, without    limitation,  adjustment  of  the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in       order to meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section.
(e) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
the Borrower's net operating income for the fiscal
year in question by one-half of the sum of the
current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets
in operation at the beginning and at the end of
that Fiscal Year.


﻿- 10 -
(ii)  The  term  "net   operating  income" means   gross
revenues   from  all   sources   related   to  the
Borrower's power generating operations less all
expenses, related to the Borrower's power gene-
rating   operations,   including   administration,
adequate maintenance and taxes or any payments in
lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on a
straight-line basis at a rate of not less than 4%
per annum of the average current gross value of
the   Borrower's   fixed   assets  in   operation.
Interest and other charges on debt shall not be
deducted from gross revenues.
(Iii) The term "current net value of the Borrower's
fixed assets in operation" means the gross value
of the Borrower's fixed assets in operation less
the amount of accumulated depreciation, as valued
from time to time in accordance with sound and
consistently  maintained   methods   of  valuation
satisfactory to the Bank.
(iv) Any shortfall or overrun in an annual return
earned over the next preceding Fiscal Year as
measured against the requirement specified for
such year by paragraph (a) (i) shall be carried
forward and shall be respectively subtracted from
or added to the net operating income for the
Fiscal Year in respect of which the calculation is
made.
(v) the term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(1) the sum of gross revenues from all sources
related to power generating operations, net
non-operating income and any reduction in
non-cash working capital; and
(2) the sum of all expenses of the Borrower's
power generating operations, including main-
tenance and administration (excluding de-
preciation   and  other   non-cash  operating
charges), interest and otn.er charges on debt
(excluding interest financed under a loan
contract), repayment of loans (including


﻿- 11 -
sinking fund payments, if any), all taxes or
payments in lieu of taxes, all cash dividends
and other cash distributions of surplus,
increase in Liet working capital other than
cash.
(vi) The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
ditures incurred on account of fixed or capital
assets,   including   interest  charged   to   con-
struction, related to the Borrower's power gene-
rating operations.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall, annually, revalue its
fixed assets using methods acceptable to the Bank. Such re-
valuation shall be made to reflect the urban cost of living index
for "All Items and All Income Groups" issued by the Central
Statistics Office of the Guarantor's Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning or such other index as the Bank may agree.
For the purposes of this Section the Borrower shall value its
fixed assets at March 31, 1981 at a replacement cost of 109.4
million Pula less accumulated depreciation of 32 million Pula.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt, if, after the incurrence of
such debt, the internal cash generation of the Borrower for the
twelve-month period next preceding the incurrence of such debt
would be less than 1.4 times the estimated maximum debt service
requirement for any succeeding Fiscal Year on the debt of the
Borrower. For purposes of this Section:
(a) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower
maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, *on the date, and
to the extent, the amount of such debt has become outstanding
pursuant to such contract, agreement or instrument; and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into, but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt shall be outstanding.
(c) The term "internal cash generation of the Borrower"
means gross revenues of the Borrower from all sources, adjusted


﻿- 12 -
to take account of the Borrower's tariffs in effect at the time
of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve-month period to which such revenues relate,
less all operating expenses of the Borrower, including expenses
accountable to administrative, maintenance and taxes (or payments
in lieu of taxes), but before provision for depreciation of
assets and interest and other charges on debt.
(d) The term "debt service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any)
of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such
rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ADB Loan, the BADEA Loan, the CDC Loan, the
EIB Loan, the KF Loan, the SF Loan, the Guarantor
Loan or any other loan or grant made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in ,part, pursuant to the terms of the ADB
Loan Agreement, the BADEA Loan Agreement, the CDC
Loan Agreement, the EIB Loan Agreement, the     KF
Loan Agreement, the SF Loan Agreement, or the
Guarantor Agreement, respectively, or any other
loan or grant agreement made for the financing of
the Project; or


﻿- 13 -
(ii)   the ADB Loan, the BADEA Loan, the        Loan, the
EIB Loan, the KF Loan, the SF Loan, the Guarantor
Loan or any other loan made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement
shall occur subject to paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section  7.01.   The  following   events  are  specified   as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Bank has been notified by ADB, BADEA, CDC, EIB, KF,
SF, and the Guarantor that all conditions precedent to initial
disbursements of the ADB Loan, the BADEA Loan, the CDC Loan, the
EIB Loan, the KF Loan, the SF Loan, and the Guarantor Loan, other
than the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the Bank has been notified that arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank have been made for the additional financing
as referred to in paragraph (I) of the Preamble to this Agree-
ment; and
(c) the   "Morupule  Colliery Agreement", which has been
previously  agreed   upon  between   the  Borrower  and   Morupule
Colliery, has been amended obligating Morupule Colliery to


﻿- 14 -
produce 600,000 tons per annum and to provide sufficient coal for
the initial three years of operation of the power plant included
in the Project.
Section 7.02. The date                           , is hereby
specified for the purpose of      Section  12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Botswana Power Corporation
P.O. Box 48
Gaborone
Botswana
Cable address:                      Telex:
ELECTRA                           2431 POWER BD
Gaborone


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
BOTSWANA POWER CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out. of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works under          12,000,000        60%
Parts A.1 and C
of the Project
(2) Equipment for Part A.1     13,000,000        100% of foreign
of the Project (exclu-                      expenditures
ing turbines, boilers
generators and asso-
ciated equipment there-
for) and Part C of the
Project (excluding
equipment for the
system control center)
(3) Studies under Part D          330,000        100% of foreign
and training under                          expenditures
Part E of the Project
(4) Fee                           480,296
(5) Unallocated                 6,689,704
TOTAL           32,500,000
2.   For  the  purposes of   this  Schedule, the   term   "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Guarantor.


﻿- 17 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan set
forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if
the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Loan
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
all expenditures in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to
meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Bank are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Bank    shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been elig-
ible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   1.   Construction   of  a  coal-fired  power  plant   at
Morupule, including a chimney and associated facilities
therefor.
2.   Construction   of  a   water  pipeline   from  the
Mabeleapodi well field to such      power plant   (about
50 km).
Part B:   Construction of 220 kV power transmission lines from
Morupule to Selebi-Phikwe (about 110 km) and from
Morupule  to  Segoditshane   (about  262 km) and    con-
struction of 132 kV power transmission lines from
Segoditshane to Gaborone (about 13 km).
Part C:   Construction  of sub-stations and    a   system  control
center for the operation of the integrated transmission
system.
Part D:   1.   Carrying out of studies on the adequacy of the
Borrower's tariff structure.
2.   Carrying out of a study to review the Borrower's
organizational structure, in particular the organi-
zational changes needed to manage the Borrower's
operations after the integration of the transmission
systems.
Part E:   Carrying out of a training program      to improve the
Borrower's operations of    the  power  plant  and   the
control center.
Part F:   Carrying out of a drilling program to establish the
exact location of coal reserves in the Morupule area.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning April 1, 1987
through   October 1, 1999                1,250,000


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
The Interest rate (expressed
as percentage per annum)
applicable to the balance
outstanding on the Loan on
the day of prepayment multi-
plied by:
Not more than three years
before maturity                              0.18
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                      0.35
More than six years but not
more than eleven years before
maturity                                      0.65
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years before
maturity                                      0.88
More than fifteen years before
maturity                                      1.00


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in
such form and detail and containing such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price 'of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 22 -
B.   Other Bidding Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost $100,000 or less may be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.   Civil works estimated to cost $500,000 or less may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with local
competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in suf.icient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the


﻿- 23 -
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
cfange order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this     2    day ofO      , 198 L,.
FOR SECRETARY


