                     Document of
                 The World Bank




                                            Report No: ICR00003159



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
              (IDA-45180 TF-99702)



                        ON A

                      CREDIT

       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.8 MILLION
          (US$ 59.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                        AND

                      A GRANT

        IN THE AMOUNT OF CAD$3.0 MILLION

                      TO THE

        SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                     FOR THE

    AGRICULTURE COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT



                 November 13, 2014




             Agricultural Global Practice
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2014)

                  Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong (VND)
                        VND 1.00 = US$ 0.000047
                         US$ 1.00 = VND 21,276

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 – December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

1M-5Rs   One Must Five Reductions
AB       Agribusiness
ACP      Agricultural Competitiveness Project
CPS      Country Partnership Strategy
DARD     Department of Agriculture and Rural Development
EM       Ethnic Minority
EMDP     Ethnic Minority Development Plans
EMPF     Ethnic Minority Planning Framework
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
EU       European Union
FA       Financing Agreement
FAO      Food and Agriculture of the United Nations
FIRR     Financial Internal Rate of Return
FO       Farmers’ Organization
GDP      Gross Domestic Growth
GHG      Greenhouse Gas
GoV      Government of Vietnam
HACCAP   Hazard analysis and critical control points
HCMC     Ho Chi Minh City
ICR      Implementation Completion and Result
IDA      International Development Association
INM      Integrated Nutrition Management
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
IRRI     International Rice Research Institute
KPI      Key Performance Indicator
MARD     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
MKD      Mekong Delta
MOU      Memorandum of Understanding
MPI      Ministry of Planning and Investment
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
NPV       Net Present Value
ODA       Oversea Development Assistance
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIM       Project Implementation Manual
PP        Productive Partnership
PPP       Public-Private Partnership
PPMU      Provincial Project Management Unit
PSP       Private sector service providers
R&D       Research and Development
RTAO      Regional Technical Assistance Office
SME       Small and Medium size Enterprises
SOE       State Owned Enterprises
TA        Technical Assistance
VietGAP   Vietnam Good Agricultural Practices
VN        Vietnam
WB        World Bank
WTO       World Trade Organization


                  Vice President:        Axel van Trotsenburg
                 Senior Director:          Juergen Voegele
                Practice Manager:         Nathan M. Belete
               Project Team Leader:        Binh Thang Cao
                ICR Team Leader:           Steven M. Jaffee
                                                  VIET NAM
                                      Agriculture Competitiveness Project



                                                         CONTENTS




Datasheet

A. Basic Information ................................................................................................................. i
B. Key Dates .............................................................................................................................. i
C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................................................. i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ....................................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff.............................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ............................................................................................ iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... viii
H. Restructuring .................................................................................................................. viii
I.     Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................... viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ..................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................... 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................................... 16
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................................. 25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ........................................................... 27
6. Lessons Learned ................................................................................................................. 30
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .............. 32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ................................................................................. 34
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ......................................................................................... 35
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ......................................................................... 49
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ................ 59
Annex 5. Productive Partnership Score Card Manual....................................................... 61
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................................... 71
Annex 7 : Summary of Borrower's ICR .............................................................................. 75
A. Basic Information
                                                                          VN - Agriculture
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:             Competitiveness
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P108885                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-45180,TF-99702
ICR Date:               05/05/2014              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 VIETNAM
Original Total
                        SDR 36.8M               Disbursed Amount:         SDR 36.1 M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         SDR 36.8M
CIDA Co-financing       CAD 3.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Co-financier: Canadian International Development Agency (As of 2013, part of Department of
Foreign Affairs, Trade and Development)

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/11/2007     Effectiveness:          03/09/2009           03/09/2009
                                                                                  10/01/2012
Appraisal:            02/19/2008     Restructuring(s):            -
                                                                                  12/10/2013
Approval:             09/23/2008     Mid-term Review:        02/15/2011           02/16/2011
                                     Closing:                12/31/2013           06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Moderately Satisfactory

                                                i
Performance:                                        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                                    11                  20
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       32                  36
Irrigation and drainage                                                12                   3
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry               20                   8
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                               25                  33


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                 25                  32
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                             15                  25
Rural markets                                                          10                  2
Rural policies and institutions                                        15                  3
Rural services and infrastructure                                      35                  38

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Axel van Trotsenburg                  James W. Adams
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                       Ajay Chhibber
Practice
                           Nathan M. Belete                      Hoonae Kim
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:       Binh Thang Cao                        Binh Thang Cao
ICR Team Leader:           Steven M. Jaffee
ICR Primary Author:        Steven M. Jaffee




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

The development objective is to strengthen the competitiveness of smallholder farmers in
the Project Provinces, through enhancement of agricultural technology, fostering of
farmers’ organizations and their linkages to agribusinesses, and provision of critical
public infrastructure. 1

Revised Project Development Objectives

No changes were made to the PDOs during project implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                                                  Original Target                            Actual Value
                                                                          Formally
                                                   Values (from                              Achieved at
    Indicator            Baseline Value                               Revised Target
                                                      approval                              Completion or
                                                                           Values
                                                    documents)                               Target Years
Indicator 1(a) Increase in productivity from farmers adopting new technologies
Value (%)                      0.0                      10.0                                      17.0
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008               6-Aug-2008                               30-Jun-2014
                  Data were compiled from all 154 completed extension packages. The end target was
Comments
                  achieved, on average, although there was a very wide range of results.
1(b) Increase in the value of sale from farmers adopting new technologies
Value (%)                      0.0                       20                                       21.7
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008               6-Aug-2008                               30-Jun-2014
                     Data were compiled from all 154 completed extension packages. The end target was
Comments
                     achieved. The increase in prices was attributable to the better quality of the products.
Indicator 2: Increase in the value sales from farmers participating in partnerships with
agribusinesses
Value (%)                      0.0                       20                                       18.2
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008               6-Aug-2008                               30-Jun-2014
                  Data were compiled from all 98 on-going partnerships. The increase in the value sales
Comments
                  from farmers was attributable to the increase in productivity and the better prices paid by



1
  This was the PDO in the Financing Agreement and was the operative PDO during the implementation of the project.
This differed from the less specific version of the PDO conveyed in the PAD which was “The development objective is
to strengthen the competitiveness of smallholder farmers, with a focus on eight provinces in central Vietnam, in
collaboration with the agri-business sector”. The wording of the PDO which was entered into the system and appeared
on ISRs was a variant of the PAD language. This was, “The development objective is to strengthen the competitiveness
of smallholder farmers, with a focus on central Vietnam, in collaboration with the agri-business sector.”




                                                        iii
                 the agribusiness compared to the control group. The end target was nearly met, on
                 average, although again there was a wide range of results.
Indicator 3: Reduction in post-harvest losses from farmers having improved accessibility to the
newly-built infrastructure
Value (%)                      0.0                        50                 20                  30.7
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008                6-Aug-2008         01-Oct-2012          30-Jun-2014
                 The appraisal target was unrealistically set at 50%. It was formally reviewed and revised
                 during the first project restructuring in October 2012. Data were compiled from all 139
                 upgraded roads completed in the project provinces. The revised end-target was achieved
Comments
                 is one interprets the revised 20% target as the rate of reduction (e.g. a reduction in losses
                 from 30% to 24%) rather than the absolute level of reduction (e.g. a reduction from a
                 30% to a 10% loss).
Indicator 4: Increase in the quality as measured by price premium of produce sold by participating
partnerships
Value (%)                      0.0                       10.0                                    10.0
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008                6-Aug-2008                              30-Jun-2014
                 Data were compiled from all 98 on-going partnerships. The end target was achieved, on
Comments
                 average, although there was a wide range of results.




                                                      iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                         Formally
                                                   Values (from                            Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                                Revised Target
                                                    approval                              Completion or
                                                                           Values
                                                   documents)                              Target Years
Component A: Farmers adopt new market-responsive, cost-efficient, and environmentally-friendly
production technologies and management practices
Indicator 1: Number of research and extension contracts completed
Value (research)                0                        96                                    154
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008                              30-Jun-2014
Comments         The end target was achieved.
Indicator 2: Number of farmers trained in new farming practices through contracted extension
services
Value (farmer)                  0                     30,000               50,000             93,445
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008           01-Oct-2012        30-Jun-2014
                 The target was revised during the first project restructuring in October 2012. 93,445
                 farmers were trained under Component A in the Central region. In addition, 68,228
Comments
                 farmers in the MKD provinces were trained in sustainable rice farming. The end target
                 was achieved.
Indicator 3: Percentage of farmers applying sustainable farming practices
Value (%)                       0                        30                  20                 20
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008           01-Oct-2012        30-Jun-2014
                 The appraisal target was 30 percent. It was formally reviewed and revised during the first
Comments
                 project restructuring in October 2012. The revised end-target was achieved.
Indicator 4: Decline in the % of tested products that exceed maximum pesticide limits
Value (%)                       0                        20                                     20
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008                              30-Jun-2014
                 The end target was achieved although in some provinces there were issues with the
Comments
                 sampling methodologies used, limiting one’s interpretation of the results.
Indicator 5: Farming area applying good agricultural practices for rice in the Mekong Delta
Value (ha)                      0                        0                 5,000              11,326
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008                              30-Jun-2014
                 This was a new indicator added during project restructuring in October 2012. 33,044
                 farmers were trained over an area of 42,562 ha. At the time of project closing, 11,326
Comments
                 households were reported to have adopted GAP over an area of 10,286 hectares,
                 therefore exceeding the target.




                                                     v
Component B: Private, demand- driven Productive Partnerships are established through public
support provided on the basis of competitive and transparent procedures.
Indicator 1: Number of partnerships established under the project
Value                           0
                                                         96                                     105
(partnership)
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008                               30-Jun-2014
Comments          The end target was achieved.
Indicator 2: Number of partnerships graduated
Value                           0
                                                         68                                      98
(partnership)
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008                               30-Jun-2014
                  After 2 year implementing the approved business plans, 98 PPs remained in operation.
Comments
                  The end target was achieved.
Indicator 3(a) Higher price paid by agribusinesses to farmers (compared to price paid to similar
farmers outside a partnership)
Value (%)                       0                        10                                      10
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008                               30-Jun-2014
Comments          The end target was achieved.
3(b) Increase in share of production sold to agribusinesses, and of production sold under certification
or branding schemes
Value (%)                       0                        10               Dropped
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008           01-Oct-2012         30-Jun-2014
                  This indicator was formally reviewed and dropped during the first project restructuring in
Comments
                  October 2012 because it was too complicated to measure.
3(c) Decrease in share of production that agribusinesses need to purchase outside the partnership
Value (%)                       0                        10               Dropped
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008           01-Oct-2012         30-Jun-2014
                  This indicator was formally reviewed and dropped during the first project restructuring in
Comments
                  October 2012 because it was too complicated to measure.
3(d) Proportion of partnerships supported in which both the agribusiness and 70% or more of
participating farmers indicate their overall satisfaction with the functioning and results of the
partnership
Value (%)                       0                        0                   50                  91
Date achieved             19-Feb-2008              6-Aug-2008           01-Oct-2012         30-Jun-2014
                  This indicator was added during the first project restructuring in October 2012 to replace
Comments
                  the dropped indicators (3b and 3c). The end target was achieved.




                                                     vi
Component C: Key infrastructure bottlenecks in the value chain are addressed.
Indicator 1: Decrease in transportation time to closest market
Value (%)                        0                         20                                     60
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                6-Aug-2008                             30-Jun-2014
                  Data were compiled from all 139 roads completed in the project provinces. The target
Comments
                  was achieved.
Indicator 2: Decrease in postharvest losses attributable to public infrastructure
Value (%)                        0                         50                 20                  31
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                6-Aug-2008                             30-Jun-2014
                  Data were compiled from all 139 roads completed in the project provinces. The target
Comments
                  was achieved.
Indicator 3: Number of target beneficiaries (smallholder producers) benefiting from newly build
critical infrastructure
Value (farmer)                   0                       50,000                                 95,405
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                6-Aug-2008                             30-Jun-2014
                  Data were compiled from all 186 infrastructure schemes financed by the project (95,405
Comments
                  farming households). The target was achieved.
Core Indicator 1(a): Clients who have adopted an improved agriculture technology promoted by the
project
Value (farmer)                   0                                                              24,843
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                                                       30-Jun-2014
                  No end target was set as it is a demand driven program. The figure was reported for 8
Comments          provinces in Central region. In addition, some 11,326 rice farmers have adopted
                  sustainable rice farming practices introduced by the project in MKD provinces.
1 (b): Clients who adopted an improved agriculture technology promoted by project – female
Value (farmer)                   0                                                               6,210
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                                                       30-Jun-2014
                  The figure was an estimated figure based on total number of farmers’ adoption. Women’s
Comments
                  participation in training is around 25%.
Core Indicator 2(a): Client days of training provided (number)
Value (days)                     0                                                             425,430
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                                                       30-Jun-2014
                  No end target was set. The number was reported for both central provinces and MKD
Comments
                  (i.e. 294,455 client days in central region and 130,975 client days in the MKD).
2(b): Client days of training provided - female
Value (days)                     0                                                             100,992
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                                                       30-Jun-2014
                  The number was reported for both central provinces and MKD (77,470 female client days
Comments
                  in central region and 23,522 female client days in the MKD).
Core Indicator 3(a): Direct project beneficiaries
Value                            0
                                                                                               168,000
(households)
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                                                       30-Jun-2014
                   175,566 HHs benefited from Component A; 15,191 HHs from Component B; and
Comments          120,127 HHs from Component C. This ICR estimates that around 40% of HHs benefitted
                  from more than one of the components. 168,000 HHs implies 930,000 people.
3(b): Female beneficiaries
Value (%)                        0                                                                32
Date achieved              19-Feb-2008                                                       30-Jun-2014
Comments          No end target was set as it is a demand driven program


                                                  vii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
        Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    09/15/2009       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.42
  2    05/18/2011       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory              7.06
  3    04/14/2012   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            16.01
  4    08/10/2012   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            20.53
  5    04/13/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            35.61
  6    11/18/2013   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            46.53
  7    06/25/2014   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            52.90

H. Restructuring

On October 1, 2012, A Level 2 Restructuring was approved to add a pilot extension
program on sustainable rice farming in the Mekong Delta Region (MDR) under Sub-
component A2 (Enhancing sustainable farming practices) and make minor modifications
to the Results Indicators and the definition of Incremental Operating Costs in the
Financing Agreement. The inclusion of the MDR work sought to take advantage of an
important emerging opportunity and correct for some fragmentation of results which was
observed at the time of the Mid-Term Review. On December 10, 2013, the Second Level
2 Restructuring was approved to extension the Project’s Closing Date for 6 months from
December 31, 2013 to June 30, 2014 to provide sufficient time for the completion of
project activities planned.

Disbursement Profile




                                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design2
1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country and Sector Background: In 2007, Vietnam became the 150th member of World
Trade Organization (WTO), generating confidence amongst policy-makers and business
leaders that the country’s solid record of economic growth and poverty reduction could
be maintained, if not improved upon. Indeed, between 2005 and 2008 Vietnam’s GDP
grew at over 8% per annum. While the pace of urbanization was accelerating, some 70%
of the country’s population were still living in rural areas when Vietnam officially
transitioned to ‘middle income country’ status (in 2009) At the time of appraisal,
agriculture in Vietnam accounted for some 22% of GDP and 30% of merchandise exports
and was the primary source of livelihood for more than 60% of the population.

Vietnam’s agriculture had come a long way since the “Doi-Moi (renovation)” reforms in
the late 1980s. Area expansion, increased intensification, productivity gains, and
somewhat more diversified land use patterns had resulted in impressive rates of
agricultural growth over an extended period as well as the emergence of Vietnam as a
major exporter of food and agricultural commodities. Yet, not all signs were positive.
Vietnam’s agriculture was exceeding the volume targets being set by the government, yet
problems of quality and food safety were resulting in discounted export prices and
concerns among domestic consumers. Rates of productivity growth were beginning to
decelerate along with declining real expenditures in agricultural research and extension.
A sector in which the government had been playing a very substantial role—in
investment, technological change, and commercial activity—was losing steam. With a
domestic market shifting beyond low cost food staples to service a more diversified and
discerning demand for higher value foods, there were concerns as to whether an
essentially smallholder-based sector could deliver the goods. Would an emerging modern
food market—in Vietnam’s growing urban centers-- be able to source locally from a
fragmented structure of production and intermediation?

 Rationale for Bank Involvement: The WDR 2008 re-emphasized the importance of a
vibrant smallholder sector for growth and poverty reduction in countries like Vietnam
which were beginning to transition from a heavy reliance upon agriculture to a mixed
economy which expanding industry and services. It noted both the challenges and
opportunities for the commercialization of smallholder agriculture and the important roles
which farmer organizations and agro-enterprises normally play in this process. To
consistently deliver quality products to domestic retail markets and to ensure export
competitiveness, agro-processors and traders need to ensure long-term supplies at
acceptable standards. However, formalizing long-term relationships with smallholders
involves considerable transaction costs. In the absence of a culture of collaboration


2
 Takiyuki Hagiwara of FAO contributed considerably to the preparation of this ICR.
Robert Moreland prepared the economic and financial analysis.



                                            1
within the agricultural sector in Vietnam, such efforts were fraught with risk. While the
Vietnamese government had historically played a major role in supporting smallholder
agriculture, it had little experience in facilitating private companies to source quality raw
materials from farmers or to share their own technologies. Yet smallholders could no
longer rely primarily on public infrastructure and services to remain competitive and
meet emerging market requirements.

It was in this context that the project was appraised. The project was innovative and the
approach was novel to the country. The Bank had been supporting projects in Colombia,
China, and elsewhere in which ‘productive partnerships’ between farmer groups and
agro-enterprises were being supported and the private sector was being encouraged to
provide research and farmer advisory services. The Bank used its expertise related to
agricultural value chains and borrowed lessons and key elements from some of the newer
set of projects to assist the Vietnam. The rationale for the Bank’s involvement was
evident. The implementation of this project would support the government’s strategy to
develop a more market-oriented agriculture, while at the same time spur additional
investment in the country’s upland and less developed areas, so that the on-going growth
pattern would be pro-poor.3 The project also responded directly to the first pillar of the
Bank’s Group’s Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY07 to FY11, which aimed to
improve the business environment through investments to: (a) improve competitiveness
by promoting, among other things, agricultural diversification and increased trade
integration; and (b) provide more efficient and reliable infrastructure that reduces
logistics and transaction costs.

The Bank had provided significant support to Vietnam’s agriculture sector through the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2562-VN) and the Agricultural Diversification
Project (Cr. 3099-VN), both in the central region. The outcomes of the two projects were
rated satisfactory, yet each had focused on one or a narrow set of commodities and on
increasing smallholders’ access to key factors of production. A more market-oriented
agriculture needed to be more flexible plus utilize a range of institutional models to link
farmers with technology and with product markets.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The development objective was “to strengthen the competitiveness of smallholder
farmers in the Project Provinces, through enhancement of agricultural technology,
fostering of farmers’ organizations and their linkages to agri-businesses, and provision of




3
  The project targeted the Central Region including three Central Highland provinces, which were
considered to be economically disadvantaged areas. It also included five provinces along Vietnam’s central
coast, including two—Nghe An and Thanh Hoa—which feature large number of poor households and high
rates of out-migration due to insufficient employment and other livelihood opportunities. Hence, in part due
to socio-political considerations, the project sought to raise agricultural competitiveness and apply
innovative institutional arrangements in several locations which were lagging economically and perhaps
also in local institutional capacities.


                                                     2
critical public infrastructure.” 4 The four key performance indicators (KPIs included in
PAD’s Technical Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring) at appraisal were:

         (a) Increase in productivity (10%) and the total value of sales (20%) from farmers
             adopting new technologies;
         (b) Increase in the value of sales (20%) from farmers participating in partnerships
             with agribusinesses;
         (c) Reduction in post-harvest losses (50%) from farmers having improved access
             to the newly built infrastructure under the project; and
         (d) Increase in the quality (10%) as measured by price premium of produce sold
             by participating partnerships.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO and key outcome indicators remained unchanged during project
implementation. At the time of the first Project Restructuring modifications were made to
some target values for outcome or intermediate result indicators. The target for the PDO
indicator on reduced post-harvest losses was lowered from 50% to 20% as the former was
considered unrealistic. The intermediate result pertaining to the percentage of farmers
applying sustainable farming practices was reduced from 30% to 20%. Two intermediate
result indicators: (i) “Increase in share of production sold to agribusinesses, and of
production sold under certification or branding schemes, and (ii) decrease in share of
production that agribusinesses need to purchase outside the partnership were dropped
because the small farmer partnerships generally accounted for only a small proportion of
the produce/raw materials sourced by the participating companies. One intermediate
result indicator was added when the Mekong Delta sustainable rice pilot was started. This
was a target for the farming area in the targeted locations where ‘good agricultural
practices’ for rice would be applied.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project’s original main beneficiaries were smallholder farmers and agribusinesses in
eight provinces in the central region.5 Sub-component B2, which was managed by the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), targeted existing ‘productive partnerships’ (PP)
between smallholders and agribusinesses regardless of their locations. Most of those
partnerships were based in the northern part of the country. At appraisal the main
expected beneficiaries were:



4
  This was the PDO in the Financing Agreement and was the operative PDO during the implementation of the project.
This differed from the less specific version of the PDO which was entered into the system and appeared on ISRs.This
was, “The development objective is to strengthen the competitiveness of smallholder farmers, with a focus on central
Vietnam, in collaboration with the agri-business sector.” There is not a material difference between the two. The FA
(and operative) PDO was more specific about the entry points/components of the project.

5
 The original eight provinces are: Lam Dong; Binh Thuan; Ninh Thuan; Dak Lak; Binh Dinh; Gia Lai;
Nghe An; and Thanh Hoa.


                                                         3
        (a) About 50,000 smallholders to be trained under Component A;
        (b) Farmers and agribusinesses (AB) involved in PPs - 10,000 smallholder
            producers and 96 agribusiness enterprises from Component B6; and
        (c) About 50,000 smallholders to benefit from infrastructure upgrades under
            Component C.

The amendment to the FA in September 2012 included a pilot technology demonstration
program on sustainable rice, under Sub-component A2, to be applied in selected sites
within seven provinces in the Mekong Delta (MKD)7. This sub-component targeted:

        (d) About 5,000 smallholders to benefit from training on good farming practices
            and the strengthening of farmer organizations.

1.5 Original Components
Component A: Enhancement of Agricultural Technology (US$ 16.2 million IDA
financing). The objective of this component was to: (i) identify and implement applied
research and development (R&D); and (ii) disseminate proven technologies which are
cost-efficient, responsive to market demands and incentives, and enhance the
environmental sustainability of farming practices. There was a clear intention to develop
private sector service providers’ (PSP) capacity in technology development and extension.
This component also included activities to monitor and control chemical residues under
sub-component A3. This aimed to improve smallholders’ awareness about chemical use
and prepare them to acquire skills and knowledge for supplying produce to more quality-
conscious markets.

Component B: Support to Productive Partnerships (US$28.5 million: IDA US$15.6
million; Private sector US$ 12.9 million). The main objective of this component was to
demonstrate the feasibility of fostering the competitiveness of smallholder farmers and
agribusinesses by supporting PPs. The project sought to catalyze the establishment and
initial operating performance of PP between farmer groups and agribusinesses. Under
sub-component B2 the aim was to help scale up some existing PP. The primary
instrument used would be to support farmer group investments via matching grants—
supporting 40% of the eligible investment items in PP business plans. By requiring
farmer groups to finance the remaining 60%, the matching grant scheme re-enforced the
project’s focus on competitive smallholders rather than on more marginalized, poorer
farmers. The component also included measures aimed at enhancing the provincial rural
investment climate.

Component C: Provision of Critical Infrastructure (US$24.0 million: IDA US$ 22.2
million; Government US$ 1.8). This component aimed to support critical public
infrastructure that would enhance competitiveness of the agricultural sector by


6
  There was no clear target set for the number of farmers. However, based on the budget allocated to the
component, around 10,000 smallholders were expected to be supported.
7
  Dong Thap; An Giang; Kien Giang; Long An; Tien Giang; Soc Trang; and Can Tho.


                                                     4
contributing to increased agricultural productivity and/or the reduction of marketing costs.
Sub-component C1 mainly targeted locally-identified infrastructure priorities (in areas
where commercial smallholder production was on-going), while sub-component C2 was
used to further support PP developed under component B.

Component D: Support for Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
(US$ 6.3 million: IDA US$ 5.8 million; Government: $0.5 million). This component
provided resources: (a) to allow for effective management of the project; and (b) to
strengthen institutional capacity in key areas, particularly at provincial, district and
community levels, to monitor and evaluate project activities and sustain project
interventions.

The project design sought to achieve some significant outreach while also realizing
synergies among Components A, B, and C. Component A aimed to cover as many
smallholder beneficiaries as possible by providing demonstration plots and training.
Infrastructure under sub- component C1 would bring about benefits not only for
smallholders who received training, but also for many other farming and non-farming
households in the targeted areas. Component B targeted only a small portion of the
smallholder farming population as the PP concept had been only minimally piloted in
Vietnam previously. Yet, it was anticipated that some PPs would take place in areas also
featuring support under Components A and C to bring about synergistic benefits.

1.6 Revised Components

In October 2012, the project was restructured to include a pilot program to support
sustainable rice farming and post-harvest management in the Mekong Delta within sub-
component A-2. This was catalyzed by a growing recognition that despite the impressive
growth in MKD rice production, the prevailing structure and practices were yielding only
marginal profits for smallholder farmers and were contributing to adverse environmental
impacts. New initiatives were being identified to better organize farmers for collective
action and to reduce economic and environmental costs via adjustments in production
practices. While consideration was given to mobilizing additional financing under ACP
to support these initiatives, because of relatively slow disbursement patterns in some of
the ACP focal provinces, a decision was taken to re-allocate a share of the original
project resources to pilot the MKD interventions as these were expected to lay the basis
for a much larger, transformative, set of interventions later. USD 6.83 million from
Component A was eventually utilized to support the pilot interventions in the Mekong
Delta.8




8
  This support included demonstration sites/training for farmers in agronomic technologies involving
reduced water, fertilizer and agro-chemical uses, the provision of equipment and facilities to farmer
cooperatives to reduce post-harvest losses and improve market linkages, and the development of a
scientifically reliable basis for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions in irrigated rice fields.



                                                     5
1.7 Other significant changes

The project was restructured twice: once in October 2012 and again in December 2013.
The first one was a Level 2 restructuring, involving: (i) adding the Mekong Delta pilot
program; (ii) changes to the results indicators; and (iii) revisions to the definition of
incremental operating costs. The second restructuring involved extending the project
closing and FA closing dates by six months, from December 31, 2013 to June 30, 2014.
In 2011, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) added CAD 3.3
million in grant resources which were used to finance technical assistance and training
activities (including staff and farmer training) to support project implementation at the
PCU and PPMU levels. This support was provided until the end of 2013. Those grant
resources freed up some IDA resources which went to finance certain sub-projects under
Component C.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of background analysis: Background analysis was sound. Consideration was
given to the fragmented production structure and limited forms of collective action
among farmers, to the informal or uncoordinated nature of many Vietnamese agricultural
supply chains, and to the challenges these posed for ensuring smallholder
competitiveness in more modern domestic markets (i.e. supplying supermarkets).

Assessment of project design: Based on a number of lessons from the implementation of
prior Bank-supported operations in the country, as well from projects—in Latin America
and China—involving interventions to strengthen farmer – private sector linkages, the
project design laid out a clear vision on outcomes. The blending of interventions to
improve agricultural technology demonstration/outreach, to upgrade market-related
infrastructure, and to facilitate newer types of linkages between farmer groups and
downstream companies was appropriate given the challenges and opportunities facing the
sector.9

Efforts in Vietnam to promote private sector provision of R&D and extension services
and to restructure value chains by forging more direct linkages between agribusinesses
and primary producers were still in their infancy at the time of project design. Also
relatively new was the emphasis to be placed on addressing technical challenges
identified by farmers and other stakeholders, rather than the traditional top-down


9
 During project preparation, consideration was given to the inclusion of an agricultural finance component
given the positive experience with a credit line linked to more technical crop interventions under the
Agricultural Diversification Project. This idea was dropped and instead the expectation was raised that
synergies would be made with interventions under the parallel Bank-supported Rural Financial Services II
project. In practice, these synergies occurred sporadically rather than systemically.



                                                     6
agricultural research and extension approach. This break from ‘business as usual’
aimed to overcome the lagging (or declining) performance of public service
provision to smallholder farmers. Unlike some other Bank-supported agricultural
commercialization projects which featured the creation of (temporary) ‘agribusiness
development centers’, the ACP was designed to utilize government-based entities and
various multi-stakeholder fora and committees to gather and screen proposals and
oversee implementation and disbursement. This created the potential for quickly
mainstreaming some of the new approaches into government systems outside of the
targeted locations.

The project would involve a decentralized participatory approach to implementation.
This would allow for strong local ownership, flexibility, location-specific areas of focus
and scope for the geographical spread of innovative concepts. It would provide an
opportunity for smaller companies and farmers in less developed areas to accelerate
growth. On the other hand, the capacity to handle this innovative project varied at the
provincial level and some of them might not have been ready to apply the innovative
practices and draw upon local private sector initiatives. The provincial orientation might
also have given rise to some isolated activities, with limited synergies across
administrative boundaries and/or linkages with market players in major cities.

Recognizing the potential challenges of introducing various new concepts, the project
design included a phased approach. For the initial 18 months, project activity would be
concentrated in four provinces-- Lam Dong, Binh Thuan, Dak Lak and Ninh Thuan. Each
of these had been involved in the just closed and successful Agricultural Diversification
Project. It was expected that lessons learned from initial project implementation in these
provinces would help to inform and accelerate implementation in the second set of four
provinces. And, the scale of early activity need not have been curtailed by this phased
approach. Sub-component B2 sought to build upon some existing momentum involving
contract farming between companies and farmer groups. Resources would be available to
immediately scale up some of these initiatives, with coordination of B2 being the
responsibility of the PCU itself.

The project allowed for an open menu of commodities, technologies and value chains
to be supported. This allowed for varied demand- and market-driven activity and
provided opportunities for smaller/newer sub-sectors to gain support. This approach also
allowed the project to avoid the risk of picking the wrong ‘winner’ --especially when its
economy was rapidly growing and its structure was dynamically changing. The potential
weakness of the approach is that it could give rise to scattered ‘islands’ of activity and
success, yet not be able to reach critical scale or have notable impact in any major value
chain. This approach may also pose a strain on decentralized implementation capacity.
Rather than need to understand the main constraints and opportunities for a few strategic
commodities, implementers might be faced with proposals and technical support needs
related to a wide set of value chains.

Assessment of risks: The project preparation team identified a varied set of risks and laid
out pertinent mitigation measures as well as credit conditions and covenants. In addition



                                            7
to risks associated with potentially limited implementation capacities at provincial level,
the project design recognized the possibility that project interventions (including
matching grants) might be ‘captured’ by local interests. Partly to address this and also
improve technical quality, the project design featured a range of mechanisms to inform a
large number of stakeholders about project opportunities and bring about a fair and
transparent screening and approval of proposed activities under Component A and of PP
under Component B. The project also made provision for a Regional Technical
Assistance Office (RTAO) consisting of one international Chief Technical Advisor and
eight national technical specialists to provide overall technical support to the Central
Project Coordination Unit. For each Provincial Project Management Unit the project also
recruited a number of local consultants to assist the PPMU in implementing their
technical components and local service providers to help the Productive Partnerships in
preparing their business proposals. This technical assistance was financed by the CIDA
Grant. Potential weaknesses in the capacities of private agribusinesses and private service
providers were considered although not deemed to be a significant risk. The project
design made provision for only very small grants (i.e. maximum of $20,000) to the
companies involved in the PP for training, market development or other efforts.

All in all, the Quality at Entry was good as the project sought to introduce a range of
innovative institutional and service features consistent with the evolving strategies and
objectives of Vietnam’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. However, the
application of some of the innovative instruments and procedures would be very
challenging for the assigned public agencies (and targeted beneficiaries), and several of
the targeted results were either unrealistic or would be difficult to attribute primarily to
the project’s interventions.


2.2 Implementation

The implementation of ACP can be divided into three periods: (i) from effectiveness at
the end of 2008 through to mid-to-late 2011; (ii) from then to October 2012; and (iii)
from then to the project closing in June 2014. The first period featured a considerable
amount of communications, consultations, project administrative activity, and the
selection of technology outreach, PP, and critical infrastructure, yet relatively limited
activity on the ground. Disbursements were very low and thus ACP was placed on the
Bank/GoV ‘problem project’ list. Implementation progress accelerated during the second
period, with a large number of Component A packages and Component C schemes either
completed or becoming well advanced and with some 58 PPs implementing procurement
and capacity building activities. By late 2012, the ACP was taken off the ‘problem
project’ list. The third period saw further acceleration and then completion of nearly all
approved project activities in the central region and the implementation of the Mekong
Delta pilot sustainable rice initiative, which ended up training far more farmers than had
originally been anticipated. For several of the central region provinces, 70% or more of
their disbursements took place in the last two years of the project. By the closing date in
on June 30, 2014, the project had dispersed 98% of the revised budget plan.




                                             8
An array of factors contributed to the early phase implementation delays and low levels
of initial disbursement. These included:

     (i) An extended period of learning by doing by a project management staff which
         lacked experience in applying rules and procedures associated with Bank-
         supported projects and in applying the innovative concepts and approaches
         embedded in ACP. This situation was exacerbated by an inadequate level of
         training initially provided to this staff, together with a two year delay in
         recruiting and putting in place the RTAO to support project implementation.

     (ii) A very high degree of caution taken by the PPMUs in applying the new
          approaches. Disbursing resources to private sector service providers, matching
          grants to farmer organizations, and small grants to agribusiness companies was
          not something commonly done by public agencies under ODA projects in
          Vietnam. In order to avoid even the suggestion of misuse or favoritism in
          distributing project resources, multiple steps of consensus building and
          approvals were undertaken, in many cases going over and beyond what was
          specified in the Project Implementation Manual or subsequent guidance
          documents. Over time, the PPMUs became more comfortable and confident
          performing unconventional roles.

     (iii) Difficulties finding suitable private sector service providers under Component
           A: In addition to addressing farmer technical needs, one of the aims of
           Component A was to foster a more vibrant network of private providers of
           agricultural technical services. Yet, in quite a few cases no qualified private
           sector providers came forward with proposals in response to the technology
           demonstration tenders announced by the PPMUs. In some cases, there were
           (technical; non-feasibility) problems with the terms of reference provided. Other
           times there might have been qualified firms, yet the size of the proposed contract
           was too small to gain their interest. In other cases, few or no private sector
           entities had the specific technical knowledge and the local farmer knowledge to
           effectively implement the sub-project. Some proposals needed to be re-
           advertised and, when no private sector provider was available, the PPMUs
           needed to negotiate with the Bank to gain clearance to utilize suitable public
           sector institutions.10

     (iv) Difficulties mobilizing the farmers’ own contributions to the investments
          supported by the matching grants. Although the farmers involved with the
          farmer organization which became engaged in PPs with agribusinesses were
          generally average or somewhat better-off farmers, some farmer group members


10
   The Bank reviewed this on a case by case basis. If it were made easy for the PPMUs to utilize public
institutions for this work, they probably would have commonly gone in this direction —by default-- given
their greater familiarity with those institutions. That would have defeated the purpose of demonstrating a
new, alternative approach to facilitating technology transfer to smallholder farmers.



                                                     9
          were unable (or unwilling) to put forward their 60% share to acquire the
          budgeted inputs, materials, or services.11 This inevitably caused serious delays in
          procurement. Each of these PPs was governed by a ‘business plan’ and these
          needed to be revised when group members failed to provide their own
          contribution. Procurement had to wait until the revised business plans were
          approved, with this sometimes leading to missing important crop cycle events or
          delaying procurement to the following season.

PPMUs had less difficulty with Component C as undertaking the various types of small
infrastructure (i.e. access roads; electricity connections, etc.) sub-projects is well
understood by project implementation staff. Selection and procurement for sub-
component C1 infrastructure—not tied to the PPs—could advance, while small
infrastructure updates within the confines of PPs generally would not be initiated until the
PPs were well established and showing signs of progress. Hence, much of the
investments in PP-supporting infrastructure occurred in the last few years of the project
and most of these sub-projects were of very modest size-- as the bulk of resources for
Component C had already been committed by then.

One dimension contributing to later period implementation delay was the very long
period over which the government deliberated and eventually approved the first project
restructuring to enable the pilot rice sustainability work to be implemented in the Mekong
Delta. The opportunity for this investment was identified at the time of the mid-term
review. While the government agreed that the proposed work had a high priority and was
an appropriate response to some emerging strategic plans, it took nearly eighteen months
to gain approval for the inclusion of this work. 12 This delay in restructuring led to a
significant adjustment, including reducing the budget and work plan for pilot activities in
the MKD and necessitating an extension of the project closing date by six months to
enable completion of important procurement activities related to the pilots. 13

Several other factors, external to the project design, would come to impact project
implementation (and outcomes), either positively or negatively. For example, ACP
implementation took place during a period characterized by very high volatility in
international commodity prices, with 2008 and 2010 spikes in food prices and major



11
   This 60% farmer contribution was higher than the norm in other WB-supported ‘productive partnership’
initiatives elsewhere.

12
   There was reluctance/resistance to re-allocating some project resources away from the Central Region
(including some of the poorer provinces in the Central Highlands) even though there were evident problems
there in absorbing the resources allocated for technology demonstrations and productive partnerships.

13
   The commissioning of several rice drying and storage facilities for farmer cooperatives occurred at the
very end of the project and thus no lessons could be drawn by the closing date about the challenges which
the cooperatives would face in utilizing these facilities and performing additional functions for their
members.



                                                    10
shifts upward and downward in the prices of beverage and industrial crops. This price
volatility undoubtedly altered the perceived risks and opportunities for the farmers and
agribusiness companies and probably affected their incentives to comply with agreed sale
and purchase commitments.

ACP implementation also corresponded with a period of considerable macroeconomic
instability, volatility in the performance of Vietnam’s export-oriented manufacturing
sector, and growing problems faced by its commercial banks in the aftermath of the
global financial crisis and economic recessions in high income countries. These
permeated through to the ACP context as large numbers of SMEs experienced losses or
went into bankruptcy and perceptions about the overall business environment (for
agriculture and more generally) declined. These developments might have led some
companies to be more cautious about entering into longer term relationships and
commitments for farmer groups.

During this same period, there occurred a growing level of domestic consumer concern
about food safety, related both to imported and local products. This stemmed from
several instances of tainted, spoiled or contaminated foods causing illnesses or deaths.
This development probably added reward to the efforts under ACP, giving further
impetus to adopting (and communicating) improved practices to produce ‘safe’ foods.
Yet, the expected emergence of supermarkets as a prominent feature of the retailing
landscape has not yet occurred. Food distribution within Vietnam remains quite
fragmented. Due to this and perhaps also the scale at which ACP interventions operated,
there was much interest among larger ‘lead firms’ to participate in ACP and integrate
backward for sourcing purposes.

Another development was the increasing government interest in private investment and
service provision in Vietnamese agriculture, in part due to fiscal constraints and concerns
about the performance of state-owned enterprises. This re-enforced the government’s
commitment to supporting alternative delivery methods and organizational models.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: There were four KPIs designed to measure the PDO’s achievements. Three of
the four indicators were clear, although their measurement required comparisons with
non-target (control group) farmers, the definitions of which were sometimes not clear.
And, the wording and meaning of one KPI target on the reduction of post-harvest losses
was unclear. Normally one measures/compares the absolute levels of post-harvest losses,
yet in the case of ACP what was recorded was the reduction in the share of the losses.14
Intermediate indicators had a clear linkage with PDO indicators, although the lack of one


14
   If post-harvest losses were estimated to decline from 20% to 16%, then the ACP M&E recorded this as a
20% reduction in the (rate of) loss. More commonly, projects would record this as a 4% decline in post-
harvest losses.



                                                  11
or more indicators related to the (increased) capacities of targeted farmer organizations
was probably a shortcoming given the importance of this for sustained improvements in
smallholder competitiveness. The approach for data collection and analysis was well
prepared and shared among PPMU staff members.

Implementation: The Bank requested the FAO to provide extensive support to follow up
the design and prepare data-collection templates and analysis methods for monitoring and
evaluation purposes. FAO also provided several training classes to project staff including
at the provincial level. Toward the end of the project, the FAO helped to introduce a web-
based Management Information System (MIS) and several assessment tools to better
analyze and communicate the performance of PPs (see Annex 2 for details). As a result,
the completed project has a comprehensive data set. And the MIS is still being
maintained by the PCU following the project’s closure.

Utilization: Indicators were vigorously monitored together with the delivery of outputs
and activities. Each sub-project report indicates achievements against the indicators. The
indicators played an important role in assessing the project’s performance. With all the
time and effort which went into gathering data and other information, however, there was
a missed opportunity to analyze and improve performance. Reporting tended to focus on
the status of implementation and disbursements with relatively little work done on
discerning trends, potential problems or potential opportunities which the results-oriented
information might have conveyed. Most of the reporting information was summarized on
a provincial basis. While enabling implementers to discern that province X was ‘doing
better’ than province Y this was not useful in judging and explaining how farmers and
agribusinesses were performing during and beyond the period of interventions. Without
explanations for observed patterns the project was constrained in informing others about
the factors for success/difficulty.15

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Project implementation was in compliance with the Bank’s safeguards and fiduciary
requirements. Regular and interim supervision missions together with frequent meetings
between task team members and the PPMUs and the PCU were conducted to ensure
adequate monitoring and supervision.
     (a)   Environmental safeguards. In the initial period, because of the delays in the TA
           recruitment, the Bank’s Environmental Management Specialists provided training
           and assisted the PCU and PPMUs in monitoring environmental compliance and
           the activities were later taken over by the TA, the implementing agencies, and
           local governments. The environmental safeguards consultant assisted the PCU in:
           (i) providing environmental safeguards trainings for the PPMUs, (ii) reviewing all


15
   For example, performance could have been compared in relation to different types of commodities, the
sizes/product range of agribusiness companies, the prior experience of the farmer organization, the size and
years of prior experience of the private service providers, etc.



                                                    12
      Environmental Protection Commitment Reports (EPCs) prepared by PPMUs for
      infrastructure subprojects, and (iii) periodically supervising subprojects’
      environmental safeguards compliance. The consultant also assisted the PCU in
      preparing progress reports related to environmental safeguards.

         Components A and B: It has been re-confirmed that the impacts are mostly
          positive. Minor negative impacts were well mitigated through application of
          mitigation measures as indicated in the project environmental and social
          management framework (ESMF). Most research and extension themes under
          Component A enhanced environmental benefits through reducing
          environmental pollution; improving climate change adaptation; reducing the
          demand for chemical fertilizers and pesticides through application of organic
          fertilizers and extracted bio-substances; recycling agricultural by-products, etc.
          Most productive partnerships under Component B introduced
          environmentally-friendly farming practices, such as integrated pest
          management (IPM) and GAP; sustainable use of water resources, soil
          reclamation, erosion prevention and reduced use of pesticides.

         Component C: Given the small scale and simplicity of construction and
          rehabilitation of rural infrastructures (e.g., rural roads, irrigation systems,
          substations and transmission lines, drying grounds, rice driers and storage
          facilities), preparation and implementation of EPCs for those subprojects was
          acceptable to the Bank safeguards requirement and in accordance with the
          national environmental protection law. Monitoring reports indicated that
          contractors complied with agreed mitigation measures throughout
          construction. Civil works under this component did not cause any significant
          adverse impacts and there was no complaint against civil works from local
          communities, especially locally-affected people.

(b)   Social safeguards. Key social safeguards issues were the implementation of the
      Involuntary Resettlement Frameworks and Ethnic Minority Development Plans
      (EMDPs), which were prepared in accordance with the Bank OP 4.12 and OP
      4.10.

         Involuntary resettlement: In the first three years, there was some minor land
          acquisition to widen rural roads. In the last two years, efforts have been made
          by PPMUs to minimize the adverse impact on local people through exploring
          different technical design options. The PPMUs prepared a land acquisition
          and compensation report for every infrastructure subproject, had it reviewed
          by the Social Development Consultant, sent to the Bank for final review and
          clearance before proceeding to implementation. Bank’s regular supervision
          reported full compliance with Bank’s OP 4.12 in all project provinces
          throughout the project life.

         Ethnic Minority Development Plans. An Ethnic Minority Planning Framework
          (EMPF) was prepared at project preparation to guide the preparation of


                                           13
               EMDPs to promote site specific development support/activities targeting local
               EMs and to ensure they would receive socioeconomic benefits that are
               culturally appropriate. Overall, the participation of local EMs is was quite
               high, especially Dak Lak and Gia Lai provinces. Under Component A, more
               13,600 EM people (7.8% of the total) benefited from training in new
               agricultural technology; under Component B, there were strong desire and
               high rates of EMs participating in productive partnerships (i.e. 2,100 EM
               households (13%); under Component C, approximately 17,000 ethnic
               minority households (14% of the total) benefited from the upgraded rural
               roads to improve connectivity and transportation of farm products to local
               markets. Bank’s regular supervision reported full compliance to Bank’s OP
               4.10.

     (c)   Fiduciary safeguards. Overall, both financial management (FM) and
           procurement is assessed to be ‘moderately satisfactory’ during the implementation
           period.

              Financial Management. There were a number of shortcomings that needed
               attention, including (i) weak capacity and frequent change of FM staff in a
               number of provinces; (ii) weak contract management and internal control
               systems; (iii) slow approval of annual financial plans and disbursement plans;
               (iv) slow finalization processes of supporting documents and payments; and
               (v) late allocations of counterpart funds.

              Procurement: Procurement processes under the project handled at both PCU
               and PPMU levels were generally in compliance with the Bank's Guidelines.
               The bidding processes for civil works were considered to be economically
               effective, which resulted in savings for other activities. Nevertheless, there
               were some minor shortcomings, such as (i) lengthy bid evaluation and internal
               approval processes which caused delays; (ii) the procurement capacity of
               some implementing agencies was inadequate at the beginning but was
               improved over time; and (iii) weak procurement capacity and unfamiliarity of
               productive partnerships with the applicable procurement procedures. .16

              Anti-fraud efforts: One case of alleged fraud by a production partnership in
               Gia Lai was reported. The PP had been under implantation for about a year
               and disbursements equivalent to $27,000 had been made. Provincial and


16
   Capital goods proved difficult to procure under the matching grant arrangement. Farmers proposed
which items would be procured under the matching grant scheme. Sometime, a list prepared for a
procurement package involved a plethora of items, reflecting different farmer needs and preferences. This
and procurement requirements that multiple quotations be obtained for the purchase of each type of item
generated a considerable amount of work both for the farmer organization leaders and the PPMUs. This
caused delays. And, because of some initial unfavorable experiences in the procurement, some farmer
groups ended up using a large share of their matching grant to procure generic inputs (i.e. fertilizer) rather
than equipment or other productive assets.


                                                     14
             district government units undertook a full investigation and included that
             nearly half of the disbursements were illegible, having involved no actual
             procurement and delivery of goods to farmers even though the farmer group
             signed receipts. As a result, three people (the head of the agribusiness and the
             head and accountant of the farmer organization) were arrested, required to
             repay the illegible sums, and sentenced to extended prison terms. This
             experience was widely communicated within the project areas to prevent
             similar cases.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The experiences and lessons which emerged from the ACP contributed to the
conceptualization of the 2013 Agricultural Restructuring Plan submitted by the Minister
of Agriculture and Rural Development and approved by the Prime Minister. Two of the
Plan’s major principles—related to (i) shifting the government’s role in the sector from
that of an operator to that of a facilitator, and (ii) embracing the need for deepened
public-private collaboration across a spectrum of areas—was informed by ACP
experience.17

Some of the enhanced capacity and knowledge acquired under ACP can be built upon in
the livelihoods component of the Central Highlands Poverty Reduction Project whose
geographical targeting overlaps with some of the sub-projects supported under ACP.
Particularly valuable will be the spread of low cost technologies for soil and integrated
pest management. After construction, each infrastructure scheme was transferred to the
local government and community with operative O&M plans detailing community roles
and resources as well as the budgetary resources from government.

ACP experience and lessons are also playing a significant role in the design of the
Vietnam Sustainable Agricultural Transformation Project (FY15), including lessons
pertaining to geographical focus, value chain focus, ways to insure greater synergies
among interventions, the roles which public officials can effectively play in facilitating
longer term farmer group—agribusiness relationships, and the need to better link ACP-
type interventions with the products and outreach of the commercial banking sector.
VnSAT will concentrate interventions in two commodity sub-sectors, using a spatial
clustering approach, and combine public services and matching grants for smallholder
farming organizations, with medium to long-term commercial loans to upgrade
productive assets among farmers and agribusinesses.




17
  Bank staff participated in the Task Force assisting MARD with the preparation of the Agricultural
Restructuring Plan and shared ACP examples illustrating the scope and challenges in these areas.



                                                   15
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objective and project design was very relevant to Vietnam. There is now
much wider recognition, among sectoral stakeholders, that alternative arrangements for
technology dissemination and value chain coordination need to be supported to advance
the welfare of smallholder farmers and improve the sector’s competitiveness. Also more
widely recognized is the need for production to be market-led rather than administratively
targeted, the need to strengthen measures to lower the transaction costs faced in a
fragmented agricultural sector, and that results should be measured in terms of economics,
product quality and environmental impact and not simply by indicators of physical
volume. The ACP experience has contributed to these changing perspectives That being
said, the project’s geographic coverage, broad range of commodities and absolute
numbers of farmers which directly benefitted were not such as to bring about
transformative change in Vietnamese agriculture. A larger, intensified, and longer term
effort will be needed to bring such transformative change, as highlighted in MARD’s
Agricultural Restructuring Plan.

The project started right after Vietnam’s accession to the WTO when the idea of
developing PPs and use of PSPs in extension was novel to the country. Since then,
development of partnerships between FOs and ABs has become a dominant discourse in
agricultural policy circles. The use of PSPs to deliver training and extension work in
Component A was innovative. This approach is being replicated in other initiatives where
it is best thought to complement the work of government agencies. And, some of the
PSPs which participated in certain project activities have achieved very significant
advances in their sales and clientele in the aftermath of the project.

The combination of three components was well mixed and balanced to bring about
benefits to a wider population and contribute to “competitiveness” of smallholder
producers with component A and C. Component B, on the other hand, smartly focused on
some potential competitive agribusinesses and developing a critical mass of supply from
farmer organizations (FOs). The synergistic approach of combining three components to
specific PPs was assessed as making a very positive contribution to their growth of PPs,
although these synergies were realized only in a minority of the supported PPs.

The project’s key design feature of a decentralized and demand-driven approach remains
valid for most interventions in Vietnamese agriculture, given its considerable diversity—
in terms of agro-ecological conditions, suitable land uses, patterns of specialization,
density of commercial service activity, etc.. Centralized, top-down and uniform
approaches and technologies may often be inappropriate. There also appears to be greater
opportunities for institutional collaboration—within and across ministerial and
disciplinary lines—at the provincial and local levels than at the national level.

The lack of an explicit reference to value-chain development and improvement of
capacity of both farmer organizations and private sectors along them is one area that this


                                           16
innovative project missed in its strategic orientation in both design and implementation.
The project’s design focused on strengthening the supply side of FOs by providing
matching grants with less emphasis on the provision of technical or other support to ABs
(or any forms of collective action among ABs through associations or otherwise).18 The
latter type of support might have been very beneficial to some of the companies,
potentially leading to even higher prices realized by FOs and/or additional drives to
expand the scope or scale of their contract farming arrangements. In addition, the
chemical residue awareness-raising and monitoring work under Sub-component A3
might have been undertaken more strategically, including by connecting this with the
application of ‘good agricultural practices’ within PPs and efforts to differentiate farmer
supply and company branded products.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The PDO aimed to strengthen the competitiveness of smallholder farmers with three main
elements: (i) enhancement of agricultural technology; (ii) fostering of farmers’
organizations and their linkages to agri-businesses; and (iii) provision of critical public
infrastructure. According to the data provided by the PCU, the project met two of its key
quantitative targets, came very closing to meeting one other KPI, and met the fourth one
after the targeted level was revised downward. The early extended delays reduced the
scope for attaining more synergies among the interventions and led implementing
agencies to focus substantially on meeting quantitative sub-project targets and not
sufficiently on the underlying development processes, the quality of the productive
partnerships, and the spread of the demonstrated technologies. A close review of the data,
together with qualitative assessments made by project stakeholders, point to very mixed
patterns in the quality of inputs, services, and results. This isn’t surprising for a project
working in diverse locations and supporting a very broad range of commodities and
technologies.

Enhancing agricultural technology:

A total of 154 technology extension packages were implemented. These addressed local
demands which had been identified through roundtable meetings with farmers,
technology specialists, agribusinesses, and government agencies. Pertinent outcome
indicators relate to productivity and revenue gains for the farmers adopting the
demonstrated technologies. The original targets set were 10% gains in productivity and
20% gain in the value of sales of the pertinent commodity. The typical method used was
to have a ‘control plot’ next to the demonstration farm for each topic. Data from the two
farms—one ‘adopting’ and the other ‘not adopting’—were used to model and compare



18
   As part of the PP arrangements, the agribusiness company could receive a grant of up to $20,000 when
implement specified training, product development, product promotion or other activities. The real or
perceived administrative steps needed to secure those (often limited) resources led some companies to just
finance these activities entirely with their own or borrowed resources.



                                                    17
differences. In some cases, small surveys were done among other adopting and non-
adopting farmers to confirm the validity of the demo vs. control plot comparisons.

The collected data indicate significant differences in the results among the 154 sub-
projects. On average, however, where the technologies were applied, the farmers realized
a nearly 17% increase in yield and a 22% increase in the value of sales. Thus, in terms of
the PDO indicators for technology enhancement, the project met its goals. Some
technologies also contributed to reduced production costs, but those gains were not
systematically measured. Important institutional development gains were also realized
and these will be noted in the section below on institutional change and strengthening.

More than 93,400 farmers were trained through the technology demonstration schemes,
this far exceeding the original goal of 50,000. A large majority (82%) of the extension
topics related to various technical aspects of crops; others related to livestock or
aquaculture production. Nearly two-thirds related to sustainable farming practices (i.e.
water saving, organic farming, use of bio-fertilizers, etc.). The adoption of new or non-
traditional technologies by smallholder farmers typically occurs over time as the
experience of ‘early adopters’ is closely watched by their risk-averse peers. Under ACP,
it was expected that 20% of the trained farmers would adopt the new technologies. Based
upon reports made soon after the completion of the demonstration schemes, the average
adoption rate was just under 30% (i.e. 27,000 out of 93,500 farmers). Again, the results
varied greatly among the schemes with 19 topics featuring adoption rates above 70%, and
37 topics featuring adoption rates below 10%.19 Under sub-Component A3, some 17,500
farmers were trained in safe agro-chemical use and awareness was raised among them
and other stakeholders about the presence and risks associated with pesticide residues
remaining in foods.

Despite being implemented for only a three crop cycles, the Mekong Delta program
provided training in sustainable rice agronomic and water management techniques to
more than 33,000 farmers via a series of successful Farmer Field School courses at
demonstration sites. Training was also provided to the management and technical cadre
of twenty-one cooperatives in business planning and marketing and in the operation of
rice drying and storage facilities. Over the three crop seasons, greenhouse gas emissions
were measured, monitored, and reported in two locations, with comparisons made
between ‘control’ conventional farmers and farmers applying the advanced sustainability
techniques involving reduced fertilizer use and alternative wet-dry irrigation methods.
The pilots demonstrated changes in input use and water management can result in
substantial reductions in productions and GHG emissions, and increases in profitability



19
   Not surprisingly, adoption rates were generally high when the scheme featured a low cost technology,
which was easy to apply and which conveyed readily observable economic benefits. Where adoption rates
were very low, this was generally due to the high costs and/or management skills needed, although there
were some cases in which the technologies did not effectively demonstrate a solution for the identified
problem.



                                                  18
(see Annex 2). Such work has provided a strong foundation for future (scientific and
financial) climate change mitigation work related to rice.


Developing productive partnerships

The project successfully established 98 demand-driven productive partnerships (PPs)
between farmer organizations (FOs) and agribusiness companies (ABs).20 The number of
farming households involved in PP was 15,200, this being approximately 50% more than
the original expectation for participation In most cases, these FOs were pre-existing,
although their functional roles expanded as part of the partnership schemes. PDO level
outcomes were expected to relate to (i) higher prices for FO farmers (compared with non-
PP farmers) due to higher quality and/or lower transaction costs, and (ii) higher total sales
value over time for the FO (due to a combination of increased output and better prices).
The targets for these two indicators were 10 and 20%, respectively. The recorded results
were very varied, with price premiums ranging from zero to more than 25% and with the
changes in total sales ranging from the low single digits to above 30%. On average, the
project met the goal for price premiums (i.e. 10%) but fell just short of the goal for
overall sales increases (18%). In any case, the results for overall sales value were strongly
influenced by prevailing/fluctuating commodity prices, these being rarely influenced by
the PPs themselves. 21

Data on prices and sales provide only a partial picture of the performance of a PP, the
level of commitment of the parties to maintaining the PP, and the overall prospects for
sustaining (or strengthening) the relationship. The original results framework referred
only to the number of partnership which ‘graduated’. This presumably meant that the PP
remained intact after the completion of farmer assistance. The original objective was that
96 PPs would be established and that 60 would ‘graduate’. Under ACP, 105 PPs were
originally established and 98 completed the activities included in their business plan.

During the last two years of project implementation, the Provincial Project Management
Units undertook qualitative assessments of the PPs, using a “scorecard” to rate outcomes
in terms of the benefits to the FOs and ABs, progress in strengthening FO capacity, the
level of apparent commitment of the parties to this relationship, and the overall
satisfaction level of farmers. These ratings were based upon the recorded quantitative
results, review of FO financial and others records, and consultations with farmers, FOs
and AB staff. The ratings, placed on a scale from 0 (poor) to 3 (satisfactory) to 5 (very
good), were based upon definitions and criteria laid out in a PPP Score Card Manual
developed by projects advisors from the FAO (see Annex 6). This qualitative assessment
of outcomes is summarized in the Table below.


20
     Seven others were initiated but discontinued prior to the disbursement of any project funds.

21
   The PPs covered a wide range of commodity feeds, with the largest number of partnerships being for
tree crops, animal products, seed multiplication, vegetables and various fruits.



                                                       19
                             PPMU Qualitative Assessments of PP Outcomes
Outcome                       # of PPs Rated   <2       2-3        3-4       4-5   Average
                                                                                   Rating
Benefits to FO                98                   12         19        46   21    3.28
Benefits to AB                98                   9          18        58   13    3.18
FO Capacity Building          98                   7          22        50   19    3.47
Commitment to the PP          98                   9          30        35   24    3.25
Expansion of the PP           98                   23         14        34   27    3.03
Overall Farmer Satisfaction 98                     5          6         43   44    3.86
Rating scale: 0 (Poor); 1 (Marginal); 3 (Satisfactory); 5 (Very good)

While, on average, the outcomes are positive (i.e. just above the middle ‘satisfactory’
rating) across the full range of categories, we again see very wide variations. Putting
aside the indication of overall ‘satisfaction’—which we would expect to be the case from
farmers who receive matching grants, whether or not they have high regard for the
partnership with the company—the pattern for the others is 20 to 25% with very high
outcomes, 50% with satisfactory or modest outcomes and 25-30% with less than
satisfactory (or even poor) results.

Arguably, the two rated dimensions which would most relate to the longer term
competitiveness of smallholders are those of FO capacity and the level of commitment of
the AB and farmers to the partnership. In more than two-thirds of the partnerships there
appears to have been satisfactory progress in the strengthening of farmer organizations.
Given the turbulent macroeconomic events and volatile commodity prices noted above,
the notion that there is a solid commitment to maintain the PPs in about 60% of the cases
can be considered quite a positive result—and is consistent with the original project goal
which was to have 60% of the PPs ‘graduate’. In the prevailing environment—and in the
specific context of very high failure (and loss-making) rates among Vietnam’s SMEs in
2012 and 2013-- expecting near universal positive outcomes would be completely
unrealistic. Later, results regarding the rated likelihood of PP sustainability will be
summarized.

Reducing transaction costs and post-harvest losses

A total of 186 small-scale rural infrastructure schemes were financed by the project, with
the leading objectives to reduce the post-harvest (in transit) losses experienced by farmers
and to reduce the transportation time (and cost) of moving inputs and goods to and from
farming areas. Nearly one-third (i.e. 51 of 186) of the infrastructure schemes were
undertaken in combination with the PP initiatives. The others were in other areas of
significant smallholder commercial production. While it was originally expected that a
larger proportion of infrastructure schemes would be tied to the PPs, the delays in starting
up (and determining the viability of) many PPs and an objective to broaden the range of
beneficiaries led to more of the infrastructure schemes occurring elsewhere. And, indeed,
an estimated 95,400 households have been beneficiaries of Component C investments.

A large proportion of the schemes and the funding under Component C related to the
upgrading of rural/market access roads. Others related to irrigation or other production-


                                                     20
related infrastructure. According to the project data (based upon localized surveys), the
investments in rural roads did have quite a significant impact on farmer transaction costs.
On average, these investments resulted in reductions in post-harvest losses, transportation
time and transportation costs by 31%, 20% and 29%, respectively. Estimating post-
harvest losses is always challenging and such losses are often influenced as much by on-
farm practices/performance (i.e. harvesting techniques, field to collection point
conveyance, proper crop drying) as by later logistical constraints or practices. Therefore,
the estimates for improvements in transportation time and cost can be considered as more
reliable. The effective maintenance of the roads will impact whether these are sustained
or just temporary reductions in transaction costs.

3.3 Efficiency

ACP has generated very acceptable returns to investment for the Government and the
people of Vietnam, with its ERR calculated as 21% which is considerably higher than the
likely opportunity cost of capital. The results can be viewed with confidence as the
analysis took a very conservative approach and as the ERR would remain very acceptable
with even major adverse movements in key determinant variables-- an increase of 20% in
project costs would reduce the ERR to 17%; a reduction of 20% in all benefits would
give an ERR of 16%; deferral of the flow of benefits for one year would give an ERR of
17%; a combination of those three adverse movements in costs and benefits would reduce
the ERR to 14%.
Returns to investment in components and sub-components varied moderately. Sub-
components and activity groups that could be readily analyzed from available data were
very successful, with ERRs ranging from 30% for roads, to 27% for enhancement of
agricultural technology (Sub component A1 and A2), to 24% for irrigation works and to
22% for the development and support of PPs (Sub component B1 and B2).
The most important financial analysis was for the investments in PPs by FOs and ABs, as
acceptable returns on their investments are key to the success of the project and to the
sustainability of the PP formed and commercial practices undertaken. The FIRR to
investment in the PPs was estimated as 21% which should be a strong incentive to
private sector investment by FOs and ABs. The FOs may have gained higher returns with
the FIRR for their investments under ACP averaging 26%, compared with an estimated
13% for the ABs. This is not surprising given that the FOs sold most or all of their output
to the partner AB, while the latter sources only a proportion, and sometimes a small
proportion of its commodities or raw materials from the specific partner FO.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The PDO, as it was defined, was largely achieved, together with most of (the revised)
PDO outcome indicators. The project effectively demonstrated, on some significant scale,
the scope and potential benefits (as well as limitations) of alternative institutional
arrangements for demonstrating agricultural technologies to farmers and for linking


                                              21
farmers to markets. Some positive institutional development or performance
improvement occurred. The project made a contribution to the recent evolution of
government policies in relation to collective action by farmers and applying principals of
public-private collaboration. As noted above, the investments undertaken provided a
very acceptable return for the participating farmers and ABs and for the Government of
Vietnam.

However, the ACP implementation featured a very slow start up. New concepts and
procedures needed to be applied by insufficiently trained provincial level staff and by
private entities and farmer organizations which lacked prior experience either in inter-
acting with ODA projects or in undertaking some of the responsibilities assigned to them.
The result was a lot of delay and early frustration. Subsequent delivery pressure led the
project management, both at the central and province levels, to focus heavily on meeting
physical targets and accelerating disbursement and being somewhat less focused on the
underlying development processes and the quality of support provided to the private
sector technology outreach efforts and the development of PP. Within some PP, planned
investments in collective assets were put aside and project resources were instead used
for sourcing inputs because of difficulties in managing procurement procedures. 22 These
and other factors adversely affected the quality and impact of some of the technology
schemes and to the less than satisfactory performance of about one-third of the PPs.

The delays, subsequent delivery pressures, decentralized implementation, and
complexities of trying to support a very wide range of commodities and value chains, led
to fewer synergies being achieved among the different components of the project and
relatively few synergies in relation to the same commodities in different locations. As a
result, many of the gains under the project occurred in ‘islands’ of localized success and
there are only a few examples where a clustering of activity has had significant impact on
any one value chain. Efforts to scale up pre-existing PP under sub-component B2 was
only partially successful as the PCU could devote only limited time to this. Thus, a
project which did have favorable impact could have potentially had much more impact.
Valuable lessons have been learned from this experience to inform future projects and
government programs.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The 186 infrastructure schemes built under component C addressed local needs and
ensured local communities access to social and economic services. This was possible due
to the robust selection criteria and guidelines developed by the project which also
included poverty aspects. This resulted in increasing economic benefits of beneficiaries
including to the poor, who were not the main target beneficiaries of Component B. Of the


22
   In 45 of the PP, the share of physical assets procured was less than 25%, while in another 20 PP it was
between 26 and 50%.



                                                    22
more than 120,000 households which benefitted from the infrastructure upgrades,
approximate half are female-headed and 14% are ethnic minority households. Project
data show that the infrastructure schemes have contributed to increased disposable
incomes of rural communities through improved use of time and resources.

PPMUs were encouraged to carry out Component A activities to include poor farmers
and women headed households. Project data show that 26% of Component A trainees
were women, while 11% were ethnic minority people. In the Mekong Delta training work,
19% of participants were women and 8% were ethnic minorities. Under component B,
the subsidy level at 40% of cost, with 60% of farmer contribution, probably limited
participation to average or better off farmers. The selection of farmers at the commune
levels was mainly targeted at capable farmers in terms of finance and farming skills. Of
the members of the farmer organizations involved in the PP, 25% were women and 14%
were ethnic minorities.


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project was nationally coordinated and decentralized in implementation. Each
province set up a PPMU under close coordination and supervision of its DARD. The
decentralized approach required capacity and responsibilities of planning, fund
management, procurement and implementation at the province level. Project
implementation began to function smoothly after two years and the majority of provinces
were able to catch up and eventually achieve their output targets. This suggests that
PPMU staff were able to increase their capacity through training and learning from
implementing the project. However, it was assessed that capacity to handle the project at
province level varied widely and capacity gaps among different PPMUs remained
throughout the project period. The experiences in promoting PPs will likely remain
among DARD staff members who participated in the project, although at the time of
project closure only one of the DARDs—in Nghe An-- had thus established a specific
unit dedicated to promoting PP on an on-going basis. A very innovative infrastructure
proposal screening methodology, with ratings given to a range of economic, social,
environmental and technical factors, was developed under the project and is likely to be
utilized further by the DARDs. The participating PPMUs and DARDs gained
considerable experience in communications regarding project and program initiatives
including through the use of social media. A very large number of newsletter were
disseminated and films recorded and shared pertaining to ACP and farmer experiences.
As part of sub-Component A3, the Provincial Plant Protection Departments were
provided with consideration additional resources to carry out food safety awareness and
training programs and to undertake a regular program of surveillance and monitoring of
pesticide residues in harvested and marketed fresh produce. Knowledge of proper
sampling and testing methods and ways to communicate the results from such testing was
enhanced. Whether such enhanced capacity can be put to continued effective use will
depend upon future budget allocations to such Departments.




                                           23
While the project only covered the operating and material costs associated with the
technology outreach program and did not specifically invest in capacity building among
the private service providers, the ACP experiences of such firms and individuals provided
them an opportunity to increase their interactions with the scientific community, with
DARD officials, and most importantly, with potential new clientele for their technologies
and advisory services. While no systematic data were gathered, discussions with several
PSC indicate that they have indeed increased and geographically widened their farmer
clientele on the basis of their ACP experience and increased farmer awareness about their
technologies. Some ‘investment’ (TA, training) might have been made in the service
providers and more provision for continuity of activity after the initial demonstrations.

While the institutional and service providing capacities of the participating farmer
organizations were not measured, there has undoubtedly been significant gains through
the development of implementation of PPs. PPMUs estimated that some two-thirds of the
participating FOs made either modest or very substantial capacity gains through their
participation in the project and the PPs. Experience was gained in procurement and in
record-keeping for commercial transactions. Four of the groups became formal
cooperatives during the project. The confidence gained by some FOs during the project
has given rise to ambitious business plans, including involving forward integration into
trading or processing activities. FOs were exposed to new ideas and opportunities and
their leaders gained more exposure to commercial concepts.

Matching grants up to a total of US$ 20,000 were offered to agribusiness companies
under the PP arrangements in order to support their product marketing or institutional
development. Some firms took advantage of this and participated in trade fairs and/or
implemented additional training for their staff. Yet, some firms utilized little or none of
the available resources, experiencing or perceiving a high level of complexity in applying
the project’s procedures for grant disbursements. This matching grant facility thus had
relatively limited impact. Nevertheless, many of the companies participating in the PP
developed a much better understanding of how to work directly and effectively with
farmer organizations. Some have already expanded their system of contract farming,
while others intend to do so.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

The experiences under ACP influenced the objectives and principles underpinning
Decision No. 62/2013/QD-TTg of October 25, 2013 of the Prime Minister which lays
down a policy of supporting various forms of collective action among farmers and
contract farming between them and agro-enterprises. Even prior to the closure of ACP,
Nghe An province had moved to implement this Decision, having initiated support for
twenty new PPs.

One of best practices that the ACP developed, which can be utilized by DARDs and other
provincial government units and adapted for other Bank-supported projects in Vietnam
was a screening mechanism for infrastructure proposed by targeted districts and
communes. The mechanism included not only criteria of social and economic benefits,
but also environmental, ethnic minority, and social safeguard criteria by assigning a score


                                            24
on each key factor. This mechanism was used in prioritizing infrastructure development
under component C, and also served as a safeguard screening mechanism.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
See Annex 6

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The main outcome presented in the PAD, “strengthen the competitiveness of
smallholders” will likely be sustained since the capacity and skills developed with project
support will remain among farmers and FOs. These farmers and organizations will likely
be able to take advantage of emerging market opportunities in their locales. And, for two
major sub-sectors—rice and coffee—the follow-up Bank-financed Sustainable
Agricultural Transformation Project—is expected to build upon the ACP foundations and
substantially scale up the adoption of sustainable production practices and improved
collective capacity to interface with input and commodity markets.

The 154 extension packages under Component A featured a wide range of technologies,
whose adoption, over time is difficult to predict. Even within the course of project, some
29% of the trained farmers had adopted the technologies and there is no reason to believe
that they will not continue to apply these. Further farmer adoption should be expected in
the coming years. Two-thirds of the trained farmers reported being satisfied with the
technologies which were demonstrated. More than one-third of the technologies (59 of
154) were programmed to be continued or scaled up with the support of local extension
networks. How much that happens will depend upon budgetary matters and the continued
good working relationships between the private technology providers and the official
service. Sustaining the framework provided for facilitating private sector extension
activity will likely carry on, perhaps with variations from province to province.
Nevertheless, the ‘business environment’ for private service providers remains
challenging. An un-level playing field remains. Public agencies have their salaries paid,
equipment, and variable cost budgets from the government. And they apply government
cost norms. Market-based extension is a very good idea, yet needs to have supportive
policies and not just entry points in ODA-supported projects.

In the last year of the project, PPMU staff went through an exercise in gauging the
likelihood that the ACP supported PP would continue to function beyond the project
years. They did this by ‘mapping’ the relative strengths of the partners. The hypothesis
was that the presence of a strong AB can overcome and work around some weaknesses
on the part of FO, yet the opposite is not the case. Where a company’s management or
market position is weak, then the PP will have a low likelihood of carrying on. Strong FO




                                            25
will not want to work with weak AB for very long. Figure 1 below summarizes the
results of the ratings for the 98 ACP PP. 23

The matrix boxes in green are deemed to have a very good to excellent chance of
carrying on as a functioning partnership. Forty three of the PPs (i.e. 44% of the total)
were mapped in this category. The boxes in yellow are deemed to have a moderate
chance of continuity, yet one or the other (or both of the partners might need some
additional assistance. Thirty-three (i.e. 34%) of the PPs were classified this way. The PP
falling within the red boxes are considered to have little or no likelihood of maintaining a
regular commercial relationship. Twenty-two PPs (i.e. 22%) were rated as such. One
should look at this pattern very positively given the rather turbulent waters in which the
economy generally and the SME sector in particular has been navigating during the past
several years.

An analysis was done of the ‘sustainability’ classifications of PP according to different
commodity areas. One would expect a stronger rational for very close coordination
between FO and AB for perishable commodities, for ones requiring processing soon after
harvest, and in circumstances where the product is being differentiated according to
variety, quality or other dimensions. In contrast, there is little rationale for contract
farming and exclusive seller-buyer relations where generic and storable commodities are
involved. The results for the ACP PP is only partially consistent with these expectations,
suggesting either that it is too soon to make a judgment on this or that in the early stages
of these partnerships the dominant factors relate to AB and FO management capacity and
trust, rather than the intrinsic properties of commodities and their markets. 24




23
  The sustainability of particular productive partnerships is not equivalent to the sustainability of more
competitive smallholder farmers. In quite a few cases, the FOs seem to have ‘out -grown’ their AB partner,
because of emerging weaknesses/market problems on the part of the AB, steady advances in the capacity
and performance of the FO, and/or the entry into the locale of new buyers offering better terms and
conditions (and expansion potential) on a ‘long -term’ basis. Some stronger FO would like to do regular
business with more than one company.



24
   Somewhat unexpectedly, the PP mapping showed great diversity in sustainability prospects within the
same commodity groups. For example, of the 19 PP involving livestock and animal products, 6 were
classified in the green category, 6 in the yellow and 7 in the red. Similarly, of the 21 PP involving beverage
and other tree crops, 8 were classified as green, 7 as yellow and 6 as red. Only the seed production PP
showed a dominant pattern. Of the 16 PP, 9 are green, 6 are yellow and only 1 is red.



                                                     26
                            Figure 1: Sustainability Mapping of 98 PP
         AB Capacity
                                                                       Group 1 : Green
                                                                       • Excellent: 1
                                                                       • Satisfactory (Sustainable):
                     6                19                12                2&3
         Strong


                                                                       Group 2: Yellow
                                                                       • Average: 4
                                                                       • Potentially improved (if the
                                                                          Strong partner assists the
         Medium




                                                                          Weaker partner): 5 & 6
                     6                15                12
                                                                       Group 3: Red
                                                                       • Marginal (It is in danger of
                                                                          becoming Unsustainable,
                                                                          but improving one partner
                                                                          can help elevate the
         Weak




                                                                          partnership): 7&8
                                                                       • Week PP (unsustainable): 9
                     6                10                12


                  Weak              Medium            Strong       FO Capacity



5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project design was innovative, especially for Vietnam at that time, with emphases
placed on decentralized, demand-driven approaches, utilizing private sector providers,
and testing the concept of productive partnerships. South-South learning occurred from
the very beginning with representatives from Colombia sharing their experiences with
productive partnerships. The design identified most of the pertinent risks and measures to
cope with potential challenges. The phased approach was a strategic decision to work
with only four provinces that had prior experiences with the Bank projects, although it
was anticipated that the approach could cause some delays among the second group.25
Still, the capacity of the initial four PPMUs to implement ACP’s novel approaches was
probably over-estimated. Having decided on a decentralized approach maximum efforts
should have been made to ensure that the technical assistance team would be on board at


25
   In some other countries, dedicated project units, sometimes called ‘agribusiness development centers’,
are created to implement activities such as those under Component B of ACP. While adopting this
approach might have facilitated improved implementation performance in the early years of ACP, it would
not have enabled the valuable learning which occurred at the PPMU/DARD level.



                                                   27
the earliest possible time. Several shortcomings in project design can be noted, including
the absence of any means to strengthen the capacities of the private service providers (to
increase their technology outreach beyond the time of the project), and the very limited
direct support provided to the agribusiness companies involved in the PP (even though
some provinces with an underdeveloped business sector were targeted). Another design
shortcoming was the lack of explicit arrangements for shared learning—among service
providers, agribusiness companies, and farmer organizations, and between these and
policy makers for a project seeking to demonstrate the benefits and viability of alternative
institutional models for service delivery and value chain support. The project preparation
was efficient (less than one year) and included the detailed implementation plan in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank’s supervision was carried out regularly, although in the first two years of the project
there was probably the need—yet not the resources—to get to the field more often to
interact with the PPMUs and beneficiaries which were struggling to apply the project
concepts and operational requirements. Yet, the initial ISRs clearly identified the
underlying causes of delays especially the capacity constraints at the provincial level.
During the (extended) period before the RTAO was put in place, the Bank team needed to
fill the technical and advisory gaps. Training by the Bank team was stepped up on
financial, procurement, and safeguards matters. As project implementation improved, the
Bank support became more focused on trying to insure the quality of sub-projects and
introducing innovations to improve the project M&E system and interpretation of M&E
results. Major contributions on this came from the FAO Cooperative Program whose
technical support was very valuable to the PCU and PPMUs. The Bank remained a
strong advocate for the restructuring, enabling the pilot work in the Mekong Delta to be
undertaken. Bank management also put emphasis on the quality of results and strongly
backed the restructuring initiative. During supervision missions, Bank’s specialists on
finance, procurement, social and environmental safeguards were always deployed and
provided timely and appropriate recommendations.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank played a very important role in the introduction of several innovative
approaches to smallholder agriculture support and worked closely with the client to
resolve early implementation challenges and to most effectively apply the innovative
project features. Emerging lessons from ACP helped inform government strategic work
as well as Bank task teams in other countries designing or implementing similar types of
projects. Yet, certain shortcomings in project design may have lowered the impact of
some elements of the project.




                                            28
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government’s performance was good during project preparation. MARD staff were
actively engaged in project design and supportive to the innovations introduced to the
project such as the new approach of private sector extension under Component A and
matching grants provided for productive partnerships under Component B. In the early
period of implementation, government support was more passive than active, although
when delivery delays and disbursement lags became more apparent, senior MARD and
MPI officials became closely involved in addressing bottleneck. It took almost 2 years for
the government to complete its internal processes and approval for the restructuring
which left only 1 year for implementation. As result, the project needed a six month
extension to complete sustainable rice pilots in the MKD. Nevertheless, after
restructuring project implementation including disbursement was accelerated and caught
up, which allowed the project to successfully close on time as planned.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The performance of the implementing agencies was not strong in the early years, yet
improved steadily and especially in the period after restructuring. The PPMUs essentially
learned by doing in the early period with insufficient support from the PCU (and in the
absence, then, of the RTAO). Decision making was slow, even taking into account that
some approaches (i.e. recruiting private service providers; applying matching grants)
were new to most PPMUs and DARDs. The PP business plans that were the foundation
and integral part of the project were used as the basis and justification of procurement
plans—yet not to provide other support for the relationship between the FO and AB. In
many instances, the selection of PPs, especially the part of AB selection was done on
paper without visiting the company.

ACP often operated ‘within its project’, with component and provincial silos. Valuable
experiences acquired through learning were often not shared with other PPMUs. Instead,
cross-fertilization involved the consultants working for the RTAO. Private sector
companies under component A and ABs and FOs under component B were rarely if at all
brought together to share their experiences, problem solving and approaches. This picture
changed in the last year of the project but there were more opportunities for experience
sharing at earlier stages.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall, the borrower’s performance is rated moderately satisfactory in light of the above
observations.


                                            29
6. Lessons Learned
General Project Management

      Projects designed to accommodate interventions in a wide range of commodities,
       technologies, and value chains avoid the risk of picking the ‘wrong winners’ and
       enable considerable flexibility in the face of changing market circumstances.
       However, this ‘demand-driven’ approach may give rise to scattered ‘islands’ of
       activity not able to reach a critical scale or have notable impact in any major value
       chain. Where technology, partnership and infrastructure interventions are more
       strategic and geographically clustered the possibility of more transformative
       impacts is increased.
      Facilitating increased private service provision, contract farming, and more multi-
       dimensional public-private collaborative initiatives in agriculture requires certain
       types of experience and sets of ‘soft skills’ which are not readily available at the
       level of provincial (let alone district) agricultural departments. If one is applying a
       decentralized approach and seeking to rely upon public systems to facilitate these
       institutional changes or innovations, then considerable early and sustained
       attention needs to be given to training and technical support. And, other
       modalities (i.e. using NGOs; private management companies; industry
       associations) should also be considered.
      Egalitarian distribution of infrastructure upgrades is a natural response to social
       and political pressures on government, yet this limits the scope for synergies with
       other (technical, financial, etc.) interventions related to agricultural value chains.
       Greater impact may be achieved through the clustering of interventions in certain
       locales—featuring high growth potential or especially difficult circumstances.
       Resources for additional infrastructure upgrades may be allocated as ‘rewards’ to
       communities and farmer organizations which have adopted socially desired
       practices (e.g. measures to mitigate environmental risks).
      Where there are no restrictions, the (market) incentives for private entities to
       provide technology demonstration and advisory services may be strong whenever
       the company has something to sell— inputs, equipment—or wants to buy a
       commodity with distinctive characteristics. These incentives may be weak, in
       relation to smallholder agriculture, where there is little ‘willingness to pay’ for
       stand-alone advisory services—for example, in relation to ‘good agricultural
       practices’. Service providers may need to be specially contracted to provide such
       services.
      Some of the most valuable results from interventions which demonstrate and
       promote institutional or other innovations may be difficult to gauge through
       traditional quantitative indicators. This is especially the case with aspects of
       attitudinal change—among farmers, company managers, and local officials. It is


                                             30
       also pertinent in circumstances where new types of relationships are being
       promoted (i.e. collective action amongst farmers and/or new forms of ‘partnership’
       with private companies). Survey and other methods may need to be used to
       establish suitable baselines and monitor qualitative changes over time.


Use of Matching Grants to Catalyze Change

      Matching grants can be effectively used to spur increased adoption of
       technologies by farmers and investments in collective assets. Where the farmer
       contribution is high this demonstrates farmer commitment (although it may limit
       participation). Matching grants should ideally be used predominantly to support
       (collective) investments which constitute ‘lumpy’ start-up costs and which can
       reduce post-harvest losses, improve product quality and/or enhance productivity
       on a longer term basis. Financing working capital requirements for individual FO
       members (i.e. the procurement of seed and fertilizer) can result in only temporary,
       seasonal gains. Ideally, matching grants for such latter purposes should only be
       provided where it can be demonstrated that the targeted farmers lack effective
       access to institutional credit. That being said, in a number of PP under ACP the
       inputs subsidy seems to have catalyzed some collective action and created some
       momentum for change. This ‘critical mass of activity’ re-enforced the interest of
       companies to work directly with these groups.
      There are (financial and administrative) limits on the scalability of matching
       grants and it is important to build in an ‘exit’ strategy, in the form of improved
       farmer (group) access to commercial financial services. Even if the Partnership
       scheme does not involve distinctive activities to link the FO with commercial
       banks, a project should at least prepare FO to access credit once project support is
       completed. This might involve a combination of training of FO leaders/members
       on commercial bank requirements and training of commercial bank officers on
       ways to properly screen FO credit applicants.

Productive Partnerships
    ACP sought to have farmers bypass market intermediaries and engage in contract
       farming (or similar ‘partnership’) arrangements with particular companies. Yet,
       the suitability of such arrangements may vary depending upon market
       circumstances, the commodity characteristics and other factors. For generic
       commodities, large companies may have little incentive to work with vast
       numbers of very small farmers; they need to rely upon a network of
       intermediaries to source and aggregate the bulk of their raw materials. And, in
       some circumstances there may be only modest benefits for farmers to have close
       and exclusive relations with a single buyer. If the core objectives relate to raising
       farmer income and empowering smallholder farmers, then collective action is



                                            31
        likely to be important while contract farming (within PP) is only one of several
        alternative arrangements for improving market participation.
       Promoting complex relationships between farmer organizations (FOs) and
        agribusiness companies should normally be done in stages. Newly formed groups
        without any history of collective action will tend to be poor partners for
        companies. For new or weak FOs, support should first be support to develop core
        management skills and effective governance arrangements and undertaking a few
        basic functions. Incremental steps in collective action (i.e. ‘partnerships among
        farmers’) should precede efforts to directly link them with specific downstream
        buyers, and even then, several steps may be needed to incrementally build trust
        and confidence before any significant multiple commitments are made.
       When selecting private sector companies to participate in project-supported
        Partnerships, project staff should focus on choosing ‘proven winners’. The ACP’s
        ‘everyone is welcome’ advertising strategy to recruit companies was consistent
        with the desired competitive and transparent project ethos, yet this is not an ideal
        strategy for recruiting companies with a strong track record and clear growth
        potential. Even with the approach pursued, there is scope for a more significant
        vetting process of applicant capacities prior to signing them on to the project. In a
        relatively rich entrepreneurial environment there may be no shortage of ‘proven
        winners’, yet in areas where there is a low density of such companies, a more
        targeted approach to recruiting companies (both from within and outside of the
        area) may be warranted.
       Strong FOs are key to successful PPs, but not necessarily sustainable PPs: Well-
        organized farmer’s organizations with strong leadership, high literacy/numeracy
        rates and a long-term strategic perspective provide a good foundation for a strong
        partnership with companies. Strong FOs provide the basis for a more balanced
        partnership, in terms of negotiating prices and other terms; and provide for a more
        efficient implementation of project-related activities, including communications,
        training, procurement, etc. However, where the situation is one of a strong farmer
        organization and less strong (or unstable) agribusiness, the tendency will be for
        the FO to ‘outgrow’ the partnership and seek better alternatives.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners

    (a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The project PCU team reviewed an earlier draft of this ICR and provided several clarifications
and adjustments in some reported numbers, with these subsequently incorporated into this ICR.
The broad conclusions of this ICR are broadly in line with those found in the Borrower’s own
completion report.



                                               32
(b) Co-financiers

CIDA/DFATD indicated agreement with the overall outcome rating of “moderately
satisfactory”, recognizing the various results achieved along with the implementation
challenges encountered and the project design constraints. The co-financier correctly noted
that while reporting data were disaggregated by gender, gender equality was not integrated
into the core project design. The co-financier suggested that implementation may have been
more efficient and impactful had more of the resources (for Component B) been channeled
through the private agribusinesses rather than through government institutions. In some
instances, this almost certainly would have been the case, although it is not clear that the
government would have allowed some rather significant grant resources (i.e. up to $200,000
per farmer group) to be channeled through private companies. The co-financier also noted
that the application of an explicit value chain approach, cutting across provinces, might have
strengthened the project results. This ICR concurs with this view and believes that this might
even have been possible within the designed ACP had the PPMUs from the respective
provinces worked more closely to find additional synergies.




                                           33
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
           Components                                          Estimate (USD
                                      (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                                  millions)

Component A: Enhancement of
                                             16.2                   15.8                  97.5
Agricultural Technology
Component B: Support to Productive
                                             28.5                   32.9
Partnerships                                                                              115.4
Component C: Provision of Critical
                                             24.0                   27.0
Infrastructure                                                                            112.5
Component D: Support for Project
Management and Institutional                     6.3                 7.2                  114.3
Strengthening
Contingencies                                 0.0                    0.0
Total Project Costs                          75.0                   82.9                  110.5
Total Financing Required                     75.0                   82.9                  110.5




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                          Type of Co-                                  Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                  Estimate       Estimate
                                           financing                                    Appraisal
                                                        (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                               2.3            3.5            152.2
 CANADA: Canadian International
Development Agency (now part of
                                         Grant          0.0            3.1           --
Department of Foreign Affairs, Trade and
Development
 International Development Association
                                                        59.8           59.8          100.0
(IDA)
 Private funds                                          12.9           16..5         127.9
Total                                                   75.0           82.9          110.5




                                                   34
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component A

Component A in the Central Region was designed to support the identification and
implementation of applied research and the dissemination of proven technologies which are cost-
efficient, responsive to market demands and incentives, and enhance the environmental
sustainability of increasingly competitive farming practices.

Subcomponents A1 and A2: Conducting technology R&D for competitive agriculture and
enhancing sustainable farming practices.

Subcomponent A1 supported the identification and implementation of applied research and the
development and extension of technological packages that directly respond to the needs to
improve productivity and quality and to meet market requirements in a specific product value
chain. Subcomponent A2 (Enhancing sustainable farming practices) focused on promoting good
agriculture practices (GAP) on a communal basis to enhance the sustainability of competitive
agriculture. Both subcomponents targeted smallholder farmers, both within and outside of
productive partnerships (PPs), to improve their product quality, productivity, cost efficiency, and
sustainability.

During the project implementation period, a total of 154 extension packages (100 packages under
A1 and 54 packages under A2, including 17 scaling-up packages) was awarded to mainly to the
private sector service providers in the eight original project provinces in the Central Coast and
Highlands. A typical extension package includes demonstration and training as well as
technology transfer activities and development and dissemination of information, education and
communication materials. The identification of topics was done through business roundtable
meetings with farmers, agribusinesses, research specialists, and government’s agencies in charge
of agriculture and rural development.

                                    Table 1. Achievements of Component A




Source: PCU, Note: The calculation of increases in yield and sales excluded cases with increases of 50% and above.




                                                             35
Overall, a total of 126 or 82% of extension topics addressed various technical aspects of crops,
while 20 extension topics (13%) were for livestock, and 8 topics (5%) for fisheries. Regarding
the crop topics, the highest demand related to vegetables and flowers with 31 packages (20%);
followed by rice, corn and cassava with 28 packages (18%); coffee, tea, and cocoa with 25
packages (16%), fruit trees with 20 packages (13%); and oil-extracted industrial crops and spices
(peanuts; coconut, cashew, sesame and pepper) with 12 packages (8%). Some 62% of the
demanded extension packages focused on new and/or improved sustainable farming technologies
(i.e. water saving, organic farming, using bio-extracted substances to replace pesticides, etc.) or
Good Agriculture Practices (i.e. Global GAP, and Viet GAP). About 23% of the topics were on
improving productivity and product quality, and the remaining topics were on other themes, such
as disease management (4%), post-harvest technologies (2%), and others. The livestock-related
extension packages focused mostly on feed and nutritional aspects whereas the fisheries
extension packages were mainly related to seed production and aquatic health management.

The “scaling-up extension packages” is the ones repeated second time because of higher
adoption rates and popularity. They include:

       Binh Dinh: peanut disease control;
       Binh Thuan: disease control, irrigation, and application of organic fertilizers for dragon
        fruit tree;
       Dak Lak: coffee bud grafting;
       Lam Dong: production of organic fertilizer from coffee husk, coffee disease prevention,
        post-harvest handling of daisy flower, safe vegetable planting;
       Ninh Thuan: safe garlic planting, and seaweed growing in net cages; and
       Nghe An: peanut cultivation applying integrated nutrition management (INM), intensive
        corn cultivation, improved intensive rice cultivation, peanut disease control and safe
        chicken raising.

The results of Component A1 and A2 are mixed. According to the data provided by PCU, 59
delivered packages (40%) were assessed to be “highly satisfactory”; 88 delivered packages
(55%) were “satisfactory”; and just 7 packages were average or poor. On the other hand, the
adoption rate on average is estimated at about 30%. Those topics of scaling up extension package
were generally well appreciated among farmers. However, the data reveal that the adoption rates
of these scaled-up topics are not necessarily high. Data show that key achievements of these two
sub-components include:

       Approximately 93,500 farmers have been trained in new and/or improved farming
        technologies, in which women accounted for 27%. Project provinces with a high level of
        participation of ethnic minorities were Dak Lak and Gia Lai provinces, at around 22%
        and 27%, respectively. On average, each extension package provided training for around
        600 farmers.
       About 30% or 27,000 of the subcomponent beneficiaries put into practices on their own
        lands. The estimated areas where the trainees apply the new technologies account about
        14,000 hectare.
       Compared to the control group (with traditional farming practices), the people practice
        the new/improved technologies gain higher yields by 20% on average (see Table 1). The


                                                36
       main factors contributing to the increase in total sale values of farmers applying new
       technologies include: (i) increased yield; (ii) increased produce quality which resulted in
       higher selling prices; and (iii) increased marketability (due to increased yield and
       improved quality).
      Assessing the level of satisfaction of participating famers and the adoption rate through a
       compacted survey of PCU and PPMUs showed that about 79% of service providers
       performed excellently in accordance with TOR, 67% of the participating farmers were
       satisfied with the technologies provided, 40% of the delivered packages were being
       widely adopted, and furthermore, 59 out of 154 delivered extension packages were
       programmed to be continued or scaled up via local agricultural extension networks.
      Component A created opportunities for establishment and development of the private
       extension system, thereby promoting the public-private partnership to effectively
       mobilize resources of the private sector for conducting technology R&D for improved
       competitiveness of the agriculture sector.

Subcomponent A3: Monitoring and controlling chemical residues
Subcomponent A3 aimed at strengthening institutional capacity for the monitoring and
controlling of chemical residues on agricultural produce at three levels: provincial, agribusiness
and smallholder farms. It provided the necessary equipment and technical training to conduct
appropriate chemical residue tests at each of these levels. The main purpose of this activity was
to raise awareness of producers and the public on food safety, especially with regard to chemical
residues on agricultural products. In addition, the project also supported the Provincial Plant
Protection Department in publishing and distributing (with annual updates) a list of illegal and
harmful chemicals, conducting public awareness raising campaigns, and carrying out farm and
market surveillance to enforce regulations.

The project has provided training for about 17,500 farmers on sampling methods and the use of
the test kits as well as government’s regulations on the use of agro-chemicals. The project has
also provided 1,250 GT test kits with a total of about 5,000 sets of reagents to farmer
organizations and individuals followed by training to help them perform quick analysis of
chemical residues in their produce by themselves. It is noted that the participation of farmers in
these activities contributed to their confidence in the benefits of adopting ‘GAP’, at the same
time, the results from the analysis would help increase producers’ bargaining power when selling
their produce to buyers (i.e. agribusinesses and supermarkets). To raise public awareness, the
project has supported 154 workshops on food safety and the use of agro-chemicals, involving
9,559 local participants. The project also implemented a number of information campaigns
through disseminating over 91,800 leaflets and 29,520 manuals on the updated lists of banned
agro-chemicals to producers and traders, and broadcasting hundreds of educational programs on
local radio and television channels.

As a result of a series of concerted efforts of project activities through training courses, provision
of the test kits, and information campaigns to raise awareness on food safety and safe use of
agro-chemicals, the percentage of samples having chemical residues exceeding the allowable
level for all kinds of vegetables was reduced about 40% within 4 years (from 6.13% in 2010 to
3.7% in 2013), a decrease of 2 times compared to the revised target of 20% decrease).



                                                 37
Nevertheless, usage data should be interpreted with caution because (1) results from the rapid
test kit analysis is ‘qualitative’ than rather quantitative (it could detect if a sample contains a
detectable level of residues of common chemical groups, but it could not tell precisely the
concentration of those chemicals; and (2) this activity was performed by farmers for their own
produce, so there could have been an incentive for underreporting. However, activities under this
subcomponent have effectively raised awareness among producers and the public on food safety
and sustainable farming at farm level. The table below shows the percentage of samples with
chemical residues exceeding the allowable concentration through the years. This table indicates
some reduction of chemical residues over the year. These figures have to be monitored after the
termination of the project. However, due to the limited DARD’s budget, continuity of this
exercise is not certain.


     Table 2: Percentage of samples with chemical residues exceeding the allowable concentration
                                          during 2010-2013
                                                    Reduction                     Reduction                     Reduction
      Products         2010          2011          compared to     2012          compared to     2013          compared to
                                                    2010 (%)                      2010 (%)                      2010 (%)
 Leaf vegetables              7.06          7.03           0.44           5.76          18.47            4.6             35
 Fruit vegetables             7.19          6.73           6.43           3.43          52.34           2.13             70
 Root vegetables              4.14          2.28          45.04           2.87           30.6           1.03             75
      Average                 6.13          5.35          12.82           4.02          34.44            3.7             40
Source: PCU’s report, 2014
Note: A total of 35,127 samples were analyzed, involving Binh Thuan, Gia Lai, Lam Dong, Nghe An in 2011 and all
8 provinces in 2012.

The A3 component had mixed performance as some provinces didn’t apply a systematic effort
and as many farmers didn’t follow instructions on how to properly utilize the test kits. This
component provided a huge boost to typical plant protection unit budgets at the provincial level.
The effort seems to have certainly raised awareness about the problems and solutions, but going
forward the effort should probably focus at the level of cooperatives/farmer groups rather than
individual farmers.

Project activities in Mekong Delta Region

In October 2012, the project was restructured to add a pilot extension program on sustainable
rice farming in the MKD region (under Subcomponent A2). The work was overseen by the PCU
working directly with seven DARDs26 without creating new PPMUs at each province. The work
mainly focused on promoting sustainable rice farming, which involved: (i) the demonstration
sites/ training of farmers on the ‘one must-five reductions’ agronomic techniques27 for rice; (ii)
working with existing farmer groups and cooperatives to apply the large field/ small farm model
of coordinated production; (iii) the provision of equipment and facilities to these groups/
cooperatives to reduce post-harvest losses and improve market linkages; and (iv) the

26
   Dong Thap; An Giang; Kien Giang; Long An; Tien Giang; Soc Trang; and Can Tho.
27 “One must”: use certified seed; “five reductions”: reducing seed, fertilizers, pesticides, post -harvest losses, and
water use.


                                                            38
development of a robust technical basis for Green House Gas (GHG) monitoring of rice fields –
covering farmers adopting the 1M-5Rs model and those in the control group. The project support
focused on 16 selected districts of the seven provinces for around 21 selected rice cooperatives
and farmer groups. The work on sustainable rice farming was carried out through the
collaboration with the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI). A Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) was signed between IRRI and ACP in March 2013, in which IRRI would
provide technical assistance (TA) to ACP in implementing the 1M-5Rs farming techniques in
rice in support of the Large Field/ Small Farmer model in the MKD. The project also procured
services of the Mekong Delta Development Research Institute to carry out a baseline survey for
rice farming in the selected provinces and conduct GHG measurements for three consecutive
crops: (i) 2013 Summer-Autumn Crop; (ii) 2013 Autumn-Winter Crop; and (iii) 2013/14 Winter-
Spring Crop.

Key Findings

      GHG monitoring and demonstrations illustrated the improved economics of lower input
       use, yet farmers are tending to adopt the recommended agronomic changes in incremental
       steps.
      Water management is very important for inducing other changes. This will give farmers
       the confidence to reduce their seed volume. Land leveling helps to reduce the run-off of
       fertilizer.
      Many rice companies lack the capacity to work effectively with outgrowers. This is new
       to them. And there seems to be some mis-match in capacity, especially for drying.
       Questions remain as to whether the best results will be obtained by having paddy dried
       and stored at the local, cooperative level or at the company level.

According to the report provided by the PCU, the summary of the project achievements in the
activities in MKD is as follows:
     From the 2012/13, Winter-Spring Crop to the 2013/14 Winter-Spring Crop, the project
         provided multiple training courses (3-4 days/training course) on the 1M-5Rs agronomic
         techniques for rice for 33,044 farmers, of which 6,353 (19.2%) were women and 2,692
         (8.1%) were ethnic minorities. The 1M-5Rs model covered a total area of about 16,500
         ha and the 1M-5Rs model was applied over a total area of about 42,600 ha. Benefited
         from the R&D experience of Component A, a series of training courses over
         demonstration sites financed by the project were organized.
     To promote and contribute to the replication of the sustainable rice farming practices over
         the whole MKD region, the project organized 725 one-day training courses for about
         35,850 rice farmers in participating provinces in the MKD, including about 11,700
         female households (17%) and around 5,550 ethnic minority (EM) households (7.9%).
     In addition to training courses for farmers on the implementation of the large field / small
         farmer model, applying the 1M-5Rs agronomic techniques, the project also conducted
         training for managers and executive cadres of cooperatives/cooperative to improve their
         capacity on: (i) knowledge of business planning & marketing; (ii) support to develop
         operation and maintenance (M&O) manual with regard to equipment and facilities
         provided by the project for efficient use and generating high economic benefits for farmer
         organizations.


                                                39
      The project supported participating communes, cooperatives and farmers by providing,
       on a grant basis, 21 combined harvest machines, 20 horizontal drying machines, 1
       vertical drying machine, 20 laser machines for land leveling, 20 paddy storage facilities
       and shelters for dryers. All machinery and equipment have been procured and delivered
       to cooperatives and farmer groups. Paddy storage facilities (phase 1 and phase 2) and
       shelters for dryers were constructed, installed and handed over to communes,
       cooperatives and farmers.
Economic aspects of the 1M-5R model
      Data collected for the 2013 Summer-Autumn Crop (the first Crop) showed that in the
       1M-5R pilot the use of seed was reduced by 29-50% compared to the control group;
       inorganic fertilizer reduced by 22-50%; water reduced by 30-50%; and number of
       pesticide applications reduced by 20-33%; production costs reduced by VND 4
       million/ha (22%); rice yield increased by 5.2-7.9%; and profits increased by 29-67%.
       Similar results were found for the 2013 Autumn - Winter Crop (the Second Crop. Local
       authorities and beneficiaries have been pleased by the results of the 1M-5R model as well
       as the interventions and support from the project. (See Tables 3 and 4 below)

GHG emission measurements:
      The experiment to compare the differences in GHG emissions between the 1M-5Rs
       model (with alternate wet and dry – AWD) and the control group occurred over three
       consecutive crops: the 2013 Summer-Autumn Crop, the 2013 Autumn-Winter Crop, and
       the 2013/14 Winter-Spring Crop. The experiment was conducted in Tien Giang and Can
       Tho provinces (Binh Tay Cooperative in Go Cong Tay district of Tien Giang and Kenh
       D2 Cooperative in Vinh Thanh district of Can Tho). The measurement results for the
       2013 Summer-Autumn crop (the first crop) showed that CH4 emissions (converted to
       CO2 equivalent) from the 1M-5R model were significantly lower than those in the
       control group (reducing 5.4-6 tons CO2 equivalent per ha per crop compared to the
       control, equivalent to 60-70% of the total).
      Measurement results for the 2013 Autumn Winter Crop (the second crop) showed an
       greater reduction in CH4 emission (converted to CO2 equivalent) from the 1M-5R model
       (reducing 15-19 tons CO2 equivalent per ha per crop compared to the control, equivalent
       to 85-95% of total). Another important achievement from this activity is the capacity
       building for DARDs and the participating farmers in understanding the GHG concepts,
       sampling methods and measurements, and potentials of reducing GHG emission through
       different farming technologies.

These achievements showed that the 1M-5R model can contribute to Vietnam's agricultural
sector goal in reducing GHG emissions by 20% by 2020.




                                              40
Table 3: 2013 Summer-Autumn (May-July) Crop at Binh Tay Rice Coop. in Tien Giang
             Items              Control        1M 5R+AWD        Reduction/Increase
 Seed (kg/ha)                     170              120                 -29%
 Fertilizer (kg/ha)
    Urea                         220               170                -23%
    DAP                          100               100                  0%
    KCl                          100               100                  0%
 Pesticide spraying (times)        6                 4                 -33%
 Water pumping (m3/ha)           3,250             2,250               -31%
 Water pumping (times)             8                 5                 -37%
 Total costs (VND mil./ha)      19,755            16,033               -19%
 Break-even                      3,314             2,557               -23%
 Revenue (VND mil./ha)          32,787            34,503                +5%
 Gross margin (VND mil./ha)     13,032            18,467               +42%
 Returns to capital (%)            66               115                +74%

Table 4: 2013 Autumn –Winter Crop (Sep – Nov) Crop at Binh Tay Rice Coop.
             Items              Control        1M 5R+AWD         Reduction/Increase
 Seed (kg/ha)                     170              120                  -29%
 Fertilizer (kg/ha)
    Urea                         220               170                 -23%
    DAP                          100               100                   0%
    KCl                          100               100                   0%
 Pesticide spraying (times)        6                 4                  -33%
 Water pumping (m3/ha)           3650              2075                 -43%
 Water pumping (times)             9                 5                  -44%
 Total costs (VND mil./ha)      20.043           16.151b                -19%
 Break-even                      3355              2500                 -26%
 Revenue (VND mil./ha)          35.840            38.840                 +8%
 Gross margin (VND mil./ha)     15.797b          22.688a                +44%
 Returns to capital (%)           0,8b             1,41a                +76%



Component B (Support to Productive Partnerships)

Component B was designed to foster the competitiveness of smallholder farmers and
agribusinesses by facilitating the establishment, development and operation of private, demand-
driven productive partnerships (through public support provided on the basis of competitive and
transparent procedures), improving private service delivery supporting such partnerships, and
enhancing the provincial rural investment climate.
Subcomponents B1 and B2: Establishing new productive partnerships and scaling up
successful value chain initiatives
Subcomponent B1 (Establishing new productive partnerships) supported the establishment of
new PPs between FOs including their members with private ABs enterprises to develop a long-
term, voluntary and commercial relationship and implement a detailed partnership business and
investment plan that will help the participating partners to improve their competitiveness in
terms of price, cost, productivity, quality and sales volume. Matching grants (40%) were
provided to the selected PPs on the basis of a competitive selection process utilizing transparent
appraisal procedures specifically designed and established under the project to result in the


                                               41
selection of commercially viable partnership business plans. Subcomponent B2 (scaling up
successful value chain initiatives) aimed at rolling out best practices developed by existing
productive partnerships throughout Vietnam. It built on and expanded successful value chain
partnerships between FOs and ABs, helping them to broaden their activities, outreach and impact.

Of a total of 105 established PPs, 98 PPs, of which 87 PPs were under B1 and 11 PPs were under
B2, involving 15,191 farmers including 3,885 women, 2,082 ethnic minorities (see Table 5) have
completed implementation of their approved business. Seven PPs were cancelled after a few
months of operation 28 , largely because the capacity of business partners failed to meet
collaboration requirements. In addition, there are several PPs that have stopped to function due to
several reasons, including lack of commitment from both FOs and ABs, delayed matching grant
payments, delayed procurement, and others. These are mainly classified as “low-capacity/
unsustainable PP”.

                                 Table 5: Number of PPs by province/unit
                                                 Participating                                    Cultivated area
     No     Province/Unit      No. of PPs                           Women       Ethnic Minority
                                                     HHs                                                (ha)
     1    Binh Dinh                         11              1,185         235                 0                285
     2    Binh Thuan                        16              1,471         165               127              1,650
     3    Dak Lak                           13              2,592         741               928              1,110
     4    Gia Lai                            5                516          62                34              1,115
     5    Lam Dong                          12                654         149                58              4,225
     6    Nghe An                            9              3,737         458                90                557
     7    Ninh Thuan                        12              1,261         175               521                787
     8    Thanh Hoa                          9              1,262         345                 -              3,873
     9    PCU                               11              3,074         476               257                986
                  Total                     98            15,191        3,885             2,082            14,736
Source: PPPMUs/PCU’s reports

The total investment plans of the operating 98 PPs were around VND 562.4 billion (equivalent to
US$ 25.4 million), of which VND 239.8 billion (equivalent to US$ 11.4 million) were financed
by the IDA Credit through matching grants. Total IDA disbursement of these partnerships was
US$ 10.7 million (93% of the IDA Credit approved for the investment plans). About 22.5% of
PPs (22 out of 98 PPs) needed an extension from 6 months to 1 year to complete their investment
plans. The main reasons causing slow implementation included: (a) changes to the approved
investment plans during implementation which required re-approval of government and a no-
objection of Bank; (b) lack of understanding of project implementation procedures at the
provincial and PP levels; (c) different procurement items required different procurement
documentation; (d) farmers were not familiar with the project’s procurement procedures for PPs,
even with the simplest form of shopping procedures; and (e) funds (60% of costs) contributed by
some farmers were not readily available as originally planned.



28
   Seven cancelled PPs included (i) Thuan Son Mulberry (Nghe An), (ii) An Trung Fattening Cow (Gia Lai), (iii)
Nghia An Crossbred Cow Quality Improvement (Gia Lai), (iv) Huong Sac Da Lat Flower (Lam Dong), (v) Hoa Loi
Jasmine Rice (PCU), (vi) Vinh Hoa High Quality Rice (PCU), and (vii) Thanh Hoa Rice Seed PP (Thanh Hoa).


                                                           42
Some Challenges in Relation to Project Support for PP:

   Agribusinesses
    The project resources seem to have been too small to attract the interest of major
      agribusinesses based in Hanoi or HCMC. The perception of companies was that the
      project was mostly about farmers and not especially attractive for their involvement. This
      relates both to the grants for the companies and the fact that FOs would be comprised of
      only 50-100 members. Most companies in the bigger cities also tend not to deal directly
      with farmers but, instead, work through traders or commissioned agents. ACP expected
      the companies to buy all the output of the FO.
    PPMUs didn’t have the tools/capability to effectively screen companies. In all likelihood
      some struggling companies were let in to the project when they might have been filtered
      out. Many of the companies were not even visited.
    FOs faced a steep learning curve in understanding and applying WB procurement
      requirements plus government procurement rules. FO leaders might have been trained
      ahead of time and this might have reduced the incidence of mistakes and delays. FOs
      generally struggled with documentation and those which were not legal entities
      encountered problems getting government approval to undertake the procurement. The
      inability of some FO members to put forth their matching contribution led to needed
      revisions in ‘business plans’ with the subsequent need for approvals or no objections. The
      time-consuming and learning by doing frequently led FOs to procure not on a timing
      basis—i.e. fertilizer after it was needed—and led some FOs to forego some procurement
      because of the perceived difficulties. Some cut back on purchases of equipment and other
      physical assets due to perceptions that this would be problematic from a procurement
      point of view and instead, purchased more inputs during the second year because they
      had already learned how to do this.
M&E Data collected for 98 PPs revealed the following:
      Selling prices of products of participating farmers were 10% higher than comparable
       farmers outside the partnerships, mainly because farmers in PPs produced higher quality
       products and secured the supply of products to agribusinesses on a long-term basis.
      The participating farmers’ total sales increased 18.2%, by value compared to “before”
       joining the partnerships, although some of this stemmed from rising prices. Cost-benefit
       analysis of FO’s activities showed that the ERR obtained b y FOs joining in PPs averaged
       29%, suggesting that PP’s activities generated considerable economic benefits to
       participating FOs.
      With technical and financial support of the project, the total profits of all 98 PPs
       increased around VND 276 billion (equivalent to US$ 13.8 million) compared to before
       the PPs, and the average income of each farmer in PPs also increased VND 18 million a
       year.

PPs performance evaluation by using scorecard and PP mapping tools indicate that 43 PPs (44%)
are expected to continue operating sustainably after the project closes. These PPs have strong AB
and FO partners. Around 36 PPs (37%) have only one strong partner (either the AB or FO).
These PPs are expected to continue but the capacity of the weaker partner needs further
strengthening for the bilateral relationship to be sustainable. The remaining 17 PPs (17%) may


                                               43
come to an end in the near-term because the capacities of both partners (AB and FO) remain
weak, and/or adverse developments in the focal commodity markets.

According to the PPMU’s surveys, 50 ABs have expanded their markets thanks to their
participation in the PPs. Some ABs entered new markets (domestic and international) thanks to
improved product quality and diversified products aiming at higher-end markets. The surveys
also showed that 89% of participating farmers were satisfied with their PPs. These results are
quite impressive given that the period of ACP implementation corresponded with a period in
which many SMEs (including agricultural ones) went bankrupt or lost money. The continued
viability of a majority of the PPs is a testament to the gains achieved and to shifts in the attitudes
of both farmers and company representatives regarding the benefits of collective and coordinated
actions.

Table 1: M&E Data collected for 98 operating partnerships
     Province      #       #        #     # EMs    Area    Increase in    Increase in     Increase in
                  PPs   Farmers   Women            (ha)      selling       total sale     profit (VND
                                                            Price (%)      value (%)         000)

    Binh Dinh     11    1,185     228     0       1,058    24%           29.4           8,603,588
    Lâm đồng      12    654       149     58      557      11%           15.0           37,298,426
    Ninh Thuan    12    1,261     175     521     1,115    6%            11.6           12,613,464
    Gia Lai       5     465       58      30      787      2%            28.9           47,579,196
    Thanh Hoa     9     979       0       0       484      12%           20.6           2,639,626
    Nghe An       9     3,507     1990    90      1,650    16%           31.2           15,980,994
    PCU           11    3,074     508     257     986      3%            10.6           24,403,305
    Dak Lak       13    2,592     741     928     3,873    3%            26.5           55,162,125
    Binh Thuan    16    1,474     36      198     4,225    10%           21.6           71,949,820
    Total/        98    15,191    3,885   2,082   14,736   10%           18.2           276,230,543
    Average




Subcomponent B3: Implementing an information campaign, networking and match making
Subcomponent B3 supported an information and communications campaign to introduce the
productive partnership program. The campaign aimed at highlighting the mutually enhancing
benefits of increased public-private-cooperation in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the
agriculture sector. It also launched “Calls for Productive Partnership Proposals” and
transparently communicated the opportunities, as well as the operational procedures, associated
with the provision of support to productive partnerships. In addition, an active networking and
match-making effort was made to facilitate the establishment of farmer organizations, to reduce
the search costs for farmer organizations and agribusinesses in identifying suitable partners, and
to assist partnerships in finding public and private service providers and other support
institutions.

Both PCU and PPMUs actively participated in delivery of publications to share information
about the project to the broader public. PCU focused on building awareness of the project policy,
whereas PPMUs prioritized on technical knowledge through information campaigns aimed at
PPMUs technical knowledge. Various means of mass media (i.e., Audio/video, printing, etc.)


                                                  44
were used depending on the targeted message and audience. The Technical Assistance Team
collaborated with the TV channel (VTC 16) in Hanoi in preparation of seminars participated by
key policy makers and officials of MARD, PCU and other relevant stakeholders, which were live
broadcasting on information about policies related to PPs, decisions on cooperatives,
characteristics and functions of PPs and market development, etc.

Quantifiable results of Subcomponent B4 were reflected in the following: the project supported
201 roundtable workshops involving 14,164 local participants. These workshops were also a
means to introduce agribusinesses to farmers. The project also produced some 209 video clips
for broadcasting on local television channels; 79,500 leaflets, 456 issues of newsletters, 9,274
audio books, and 11,100 other communication items for dissemination in the project provinces.
A total of seven (7) Calls for Productive Partnership Proposals were launched on public media
during 2009-2011 to invite business ideas/proposals from interested partnerships.


Subcomponent B4: Fostering the agricultural investment climate and improving service
delivery
Subcomponent B4 aimed at supporting provincial-level, participatory policy dialogues with key
provincial stakeholders, especially the private sector, through public- private agriculture
roundtables. These provincial roundtables aimed at reviewing and improving the local
agribusiness regulatory environment, institutional conditions and service delivery systems. They
would also contribute to the formulation of provincial agricultural competitiveness strategies,
based on market opportunities and comparative advantage. At the central level, the project
supported MARD to conduct a study reviewing the experience of public support to productive
partnerships under the project with the long-term aim of upgrading this approach to become a
public policy implemented by MARD nationwide.
At provincial level, PPMUs implemented programs of fostering the agricultural investment
climate and improving service delivery using various methods, tailored to their needs and local
conditions. Some stakeholders participated in organized study tours to Colombia, New Zealand,
Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia to learn about production partnership development
and the strengthening of agricultural value chains. At central level, through PCU, the project
financed the Department of Economics and Rural Cooperation of MARD to conduct some policy
studies related to value chain linkages. As a result of this project support, MPI and MARD have
jointly recommended the Prime Minister to issue a new Decision No. 62/2013/QD-TTg in
October 2013 to replace Decision 80/2002/QD-TTg, aimed at supporting production partnerships
and the so-called ‘Large Field/ Small Farmer’ model (LFSF).
In addition, PCU organized some workshops and conducted other important studies, including: a
Workshop on Vietnam Rice Value Chain Situation and Solutions for Development (jointly
organized with IRRI), a Study on Policies Supporting Productive Partnerships in Vietnam, GHG
Measurements for the 1M 5R model and Rice Farming Baseline Survey in MKD, and a Review
of Climate Change Mainstreaming in Agriculture Public Research.




                                              45
Component C: Provision of Critical Infrastructure.
Component C was designed to support critical public infrastructure needs supporting the
competitiveness of the agricultural sector. These investments would contribute to increased
agricultural productivity and the reduction of marketing costs
Subcomponent C1 and C2: Supporting locally identified infrastructure priorities and providing
infrastructure support to productive partnerships.
Subcomponent C1 (Supporting locally-identified infrastructure priorities) supported critical
infrastructure needs identified at the district level in collaboration with the communes and the
local agribusinesses. Infrastructure sub-projects were selected from key agricultural producing
districts in the province, and aimed to address bottlenecks in production and marketing.
Subcomponent C2 (Providing infrastructure support to productive partnerships) supported
productive partnerships under Component B by addressing identified infrastructure constraints.
A total of 186 small-scale rural infrastructure schemes were financed, of which 125 schemes
were under Subcomponent C1, and 61 schemes under Subcomponent C2. Of the total, there
were 139 rural road schemes. In aggregate, the project financed the new construction or
upgrading of 271 km of rural road, 48 km of canal, 8 power transformer stations with 23.4 km of
power transmission line, and 7,300 m2 of drying yards (see Table 7).
As a result of the upgraded rural roads, the transportation time for local beneficiaries has been
reduced by an estimated 66%, transportation costs reduced by 29%, and post-harvest losses
reduced by 30% . Accordingly, critical infrastructure schemes financed by the project generated
an estimated added value of USD 10.8 million per year. Investment in infrastructure projects
generated long-term practical benefits to more than 95,000 farming households over 60,000 ha of
cultivated area in the project area. In addition, newly built/upgraded roads also provided
opportunities for farmers to invest in mechanization of production.
Community consultation in the selection of infrastructure sub-projects together with
development of an O&M manual for schemes has helped beneficiaries to become more aware of
their rights and responsibilities.
        Table 7: Results of financed infrastructure and impacts as of Late December 2013
                                                                No. of        Benefited area       Added value a
          Scheme         No. of schemes   Length (km)
                                                            beneficiary HHs       (ha)              year (USD)
     Roads                          139           270,7              71,122            54,833           6,306,690
     Irrigation scheme               28             48               22,127             6,815           2,364,690
     Electricity                      8            23,3               1,577             1,955           2,364,778
     Drying yard                      4                 -               529                    -        1,801,730
             Total                  186                              95,405            63,603          10,779,417
     Source: PCU’s report, 2014


Key Findings
    Implementers used a scorecard that enabled them to screen out schemes with social and
      environmental safeguard issues and other shortcomings. Many proposed schemes were
      rejected on the basis of safeguards concerns. They also involved other entities in the final
      decision—MOT, the power company, and MPI so that the province would provide the



                                                        46
      counterpart funding. There were close to 1000 proposals; only 186 were implemented.
      Some others received high ratings but there was not the budget to implement them all.
     Some differences in procurement for small scale infrastructure. The project required prior
      review on any investment above $150,000. Decree 85 says that up to US$ 250,000 there
      could be sole sourcing. The WB later revised the limit and allowed shopping.
     61 of the 105 partnerships also included C2 activity although the average size of these
      was very small. So, nearly one out of three component C activities were linked to
      partnerships yet these accounted for only one seventh of the expenditure on component C.


                 Table 8: M&E Data from 186 completed schemes
    Province      #        Length       #       Benefited     Reduced       Reduced        Reduced
               Schemes      (km)    Farming       area         post-     transportatio   transportati
                                       HHs        (ha)        harvest      n time (%)      on costs
                                     directly                  loses                         (%)
                                    benefited                   (%)
Roads
Nghe An               13       35       7.351         3.513       35,2            65,8            39
Binh Dinh             10       16       5.749         1.609       32,6            67,1            56
Lam Dong              23       39       7.126         7.466       28,8            54,8            17
Ninh Thuan            21       34      12.104         6.746       24,0            73,1            17
Binh Thuan            27       64      11.447      12.057         40,1            70,2            26
Thanh Hoa             15      21       11.864       1.624        40,6             66,3            24
Gia Lai               15      33        9.495      15.112        19,6             71,1            24
Dak Lak               15      28        5.986       6.706        36,0             56,2            65
Sub-total/           139    270.7    71.122.0      54.833        30,7              66             29
average
Irrigation Schemes
Binh Dinh             14       23   11.578.00         2.813          -               -              -
Dak Lak                2        1         750           680          -               -              -
Binh Thuan             2        3       1.200           650          -               -              -
Thanh hóa              8       11       6.286         1.919          -               -              -
Ninh Thuan             1        1          65            40          -               -              -
Gia Lai                1        0         580           286          -               -              -
Nghe An                3       9        1.668           427          -               -              -
Sub-total/            28      48       22.127         6.815          -               -              -
Average
Electricity
Ninh Thuan             3      3.0       310.0           317          -               -              -
Dak Lak                3       16         870         1.188          -               -              -
Lam Dong               2      4.3         397           450          -               -              -
Sub-total/             8    23.30       1.577         1.955          -               -              -
Average
Drying yard Area (m2)
Ninh thuận             3    5.713        379              -      32.12               -              -
Binh Thuan             1    1.600         150             -         -                -             -
 Total /AVG          186               95,405                    30.7               66            29




                                                 47
Component D: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
There was some confusion and delays at the initial stages of project implementation, but the
project management has basically met required targets. Financial management and procurement,
including auditing, were assessed to be moderately satisfactory at both central and local levels.
Project implementation progressed significantly after the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in March
2011 and performed well in the final stages, particularly with regard to activities in the MKD
region. The Regional Technical Assistance Office (RTAO) and local consultants in provinces
have supported the PCU, PPMUs, and farmers with improved technical and managerial
knowledge. Among other things, the RTAO helped in identifying and mobilizing private service
providers, evaluating the business plans of prospective PPs, reviewing all the technical aspects
related to critical infrastructure sub-projects, guiding the PPMUs in data collection, analysis and
reporting, organizing provincial multi-stakeholder workshops on particular value chains or the
prevailing agribusiness investment climate, and assisting in the implementation of social and
environmental safeguards.
M&E and MIS have been developed with the technical guidance of FAO specialists and well
managed by the PCU. They are linked to the PPMU level for data inputs and monitoring. The
MIS of ACP has some excellent features which can be replicated in other programs. The M&E
and MIS have been effective in generating the needed data and information for reporting and
project management. Together with FAO, IRRI provided TA to the ACP in implementation of
the 1M-5Rs program on rice and supported the implementation of the Large Field/Small Farmer
model in the MKD. The World Bank carried out monitoring activities with regard to the project
through missions supporting project implementation every 6 months or on an annual basis and
review missions at inception phase, mid-term and completion phase of the project.
Project management, however, had some shortcomings, including: (i) the process of review and
approval of project activities by MARD and Provincial People’s Committees in the initial time of
implementation was prolonged; the provision of counterpart funds by provinces was not
adequate and timely accordingly to the annual plan, and the M&E activities were not given due
attention; (ii) the approval of the project restructuring was delayed by the government; and (iii)
frequent changes in project personnel proved disruptive.




                                                48
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


A.     Pre Investment Analysis
Pre Investment Economic and Financial Analysis
The economic and financial analysis for ACP in the PAD took account of its open and flexible
design with its wide scope of investments and activities to be decided largely during
implementation. The economic analysis specified that the Project’s benefits would come in the
form of increases in value added along commodity chains and would flow largely to farmers.
Benefits would arise in the forms of higher yields and increased prices for farm produce through
the development of PP between farmers’ organizations and AB. The analysis selected and
modeled six enterprises – shrimp farming, cattle fattening, pig fattening, rice cropping, coffee
growing and vegetable gardening - to estimate likely benefits from a possible combination of
enterprises and phasing, with 84 new PPs to be formed and 12 to be “scaled up”.
The PAD set the benefits from incremental value added against the project cost to calculate the
ERR and net present value (NPV) of the investment which was to have a total cost of USD 75
million. The analysis assumed that distortions in the Viet Nam economy lead to financial prices
being above financial process and applied a conversion factor of 0.90 to the latter to estimate the
former.
 The PAD’s analysis estimated the likely ERR to be 19.5 per cent and the NPV (at a discount rate
of 12.0 per cent) as USD 20.8 million. The analysis, described as conservative, stood up well to
sensitivity testing of key determinant variables. If the benefits of increased prices paid to farmers
through the PPs fell by 50 per cent, the ERR fell to a still high 17 per cent. If the expected
incremental farm production fell by 25 per cent, the ERR fell to a still very acceptable 15 per
cent. A 50 per cent decrease in estimated incremental value from greater processing reduced the
ERR to 18 per cent.


B.     Post Investment Economic and Financial Analysis: Sub Components
Analytical Methods
Form of the analysis. The economic analysis is to estimate how ACP contributes to Vietnam’s
economy, for comparison with forecasts before investment, to identify how different elements
performed in delivering gains to its target groups and to identify lessons to guide design and
management of future projects. The economic analysis is concerned primarily with the increase
in value added which is created by investment in ACP. The financial analysis is concerned with
costs and returns expressed in prices actually paid in commercial transactions and intends to
show how benefits of higher production translate into higher incomes for stakeholders.
The economic and financial analysis of the Project is able to be more specific about the costs and
benefits than was the case at Appraisal because sub projects, investments and activities have
been identified and implemented throughout the project period. Regular recording and reporting
of progress and the monitoring and evaluation (M and E) system have accumulated a very
comprehensive set of data on the activities, outcomes and impacts of the Project. The Provincial
Project Management Units (PPMU), by regular recording and special surveys, gathered facts and
figures which the PCU stored in an accessible data base which was used to obtain most of the


                                                 49
information about activities, inputs, costs, outputs, costs and returns needed for the economic
analysis.
Benefits are defined as the increases in agricultural production that are attributable to ACP’s
investments, The analysis compares the “without” and “with” project implications and outcomes
to arrive at costs and benefit streams that can be related to estimate the returns of ACP’s
investments. Data needed for this comparison came primarily from the data base, having been
originally obtained by sample survey interviews commissioned by the PPMUs. In practice, it
may be difficult for respondents in surveys to distinguish between “with and without” and
“before and after” comparisons. There is thus some reservation about the accuracy of estimates
of changes and their attribution to ACP activities.
The economic analysis considers two sets of costs and benefits. The first is of those sub
components for which benefits can be reasonably defined and estimated; in this case, the costs of
those parts of the projects are compared to the benefits arising. The second is where those same
benefits, which are quantified, are compared to the total costs of the Project for all investments.
The analysis is conducted in both financial and economic prices. The financial analysis shows
prices of inputs and outputs as they are incurred in investment and commercial transactions
which can be termed “market prices”. Increases in net values of production by farmers,
agribusiness and others can be measured to see the real impact of a project on its targets groups –
increased net values in financial prices represent increases in their incomes. The economic
analysis shows costs and returns as they impact the Vietnam economy at large. That analysis
aims to show the contribution to sector and national income generated by the project – i.e. the
change in value added caused. Economic prices are calculated by applying a conversion factor of
0.9 to financial prices of project costs, as assumed by the PAD’s analysis, to remove distortion s
between market and real prices. The FIRR is chosen as the main criterion for the financial
analysis and the ERR for the economic analysis. The NPV is also used to show the “surplus”
funds generated over the life of the project.
Very detailed and precise measures of the costs and returns for all parts of the Project are not
possible, primarily because its multi-faceted nature with many varying activities and
participation of a wide range of farmers in very diverse enterprises. The methodology therefore
aims to lead to results in which there can be confidence. The analysis applies a conservative
approach to selection of activities for inclusion in the analysis and to measuring costs and prices.
Component and Sub Component Analysis
Ideally, the analysis would define, estimate and compare the costs and benefits of each sub
component, all components and the whole project. However, it is not practical to analyze all sub
components because the requisite data are not available. Component D is not analyzed because
of the great complexity of designing an apt analysis and collecting the data needed. Within
Components A, B and C, sub components are analyzed to show their relative effectiveness in
contributing to increasing output and incomes from the agriculture sector.
The analysis for Component A is concerned with estimating benefits for Sub components A1
(Conducting technology R&D for a competitive agriculture) and A2 (Enhancing sustainable
farming practices) which in practice have been combined to include activities using applied
research and development to raise productivity and promote sustainability of farming. The costs




                                                50
and benefits of Sub component A3 (Monitoring and controlling chemical residues) are omitted
from the analysis as they are yet to be fully identified and accurately measured.
Quantification of benefits for Component B is confined to those for Sub components B1
(Establishing new productive partnerships) and B2 (Scaling up successful value chain initiatives)
which are the major focus of the ACP objectives and strategy. Sub components B3
(Implementing an information campaign, networking and match making) and B4 (Fostering the
agricultural investment climate and improving service delivery) are omitted from analysis
because no studies have been conducted to identify and measure their outcomes and impacts.
Review of the data available for analysis of Component C revealed quite extensive coverage of
costs and benefits for road and irrigation works investments. The data for electricity sub projects
were found to be deficient in terms of concept and accuracy, with calculated benefits being
extremely high and well beyond likely ranges. Investments in drying grounds were very minor
and the approach to quantifying benefits was doubtful. Therefore, the analysis omitted electricity
and drying grounds sub projects and was concerned with only rural roads and irrigation works;
these two categories represent the very great majority of cost for Component C.
Component A: Enhancement of Agricultural Technology
ACP undertook research and development sub projects in eight provinces across a very wide
variety of farm enterprises and R and D practices. Sub components A1 and A2 have a total of
154 research/ extension sub project packages, including 17 for scaling-up ongoing packages. The
PCU provided a computer spreadsheet with data on each of 146 extension packages showing
features such as investment cost, number of people trained, area of demonstration model and
economic benefits.
The benefit of enhanced technology achieved by Sub components A1 and A2 was defined by
comparing the rate at which technologies might be introduced without and with the project.
Since the project selected technologies that were not being applied by the private sector, the
benefit to investment in them can be defined as the increase in the net value of production that
would occur in the period between their introduction by the project and their introduction by the
private sector. The lag in introduction of the proven technologies is assumed to be one year, so
that the benefit to the component’s activities is one year’s net increase in production due to the
adoption of research and development results. It is further assumed that, on average, it takes four
years for a change in technology to achieve its full effect.
The eight PCUs studied the outcomes and impacts of each of the research/ extension packages
(titled “topics” in project documents) to calculate their benefits /29.. Inspection of these analyses
found results in which there could not be great confidence because the sub projects generated
extraordinarily high returns that are unlikely to be achieved in agriculture. The analysis here,
aiming for conservatism to ensure confidence in its results, omits the ten per cent (15) of sub
projects with the highest benefits to try to ensure conservatism and confidence in the results.
Further, three topics which had no recorded costs or benefits were excluded. The list of the
original 146 topics is in Table 1.1.




/29.   Costs and benefits for Sub components A1 and A2 are detailed in Appendix 1, expressed in VND in Tables
       1.1 to 1.3 and in USD in Tables 1.4 to 1.6.


                                                    51
The total cost of Sub components A1 and A2 for all 146 sub projects is VND 133 079 million
(USD 6.653 million). The cost of the 128 sub projects included in the analysis here was VND
110 900 million (USD 5.545 million). Thus the sub projects included in the analysis represented
88 per cent by number and83 per cent by value of the total recorded by the PCU.
Returns to investment. The base case FIRR for the aggregation of Sub components A1 and A2
is estimated as 20% (Tables 1.3 and 1.6 of Appendix 1) and the NPV /30. as VND 13 603 million
(USD 0.680 million).
Applying the SCF of 0.9 (as at Appraisal) to the project costs leads to estimation of the ERR as
27%.
Sensitivity testing. As the base case indicates that the two sub components gave very attractive
returns, the most important sensitivity test for the post investment analysis is the effect of
movements in key variables away from those in the base case. Movements in key variables and
the resulting changes in their values are:

        Variable                         Movement (%)         FIRR (per cent)         ERR (per cent)
        Base case                                                      20                    27
                                                +20                    10                    16
        All costs
                                                -10                    27                    33
                                                -20                    12                    14
        All benefits
                                                +10                    30                    33


Component B: Support to Productive Partnerships: Farmer Organizations
The PCU provided data on 99 PPs, of which 88 were concerned with Sub component B1 and 11
with Sub component B2. The data included numbers of households participating in each PP
(totals, women-headed, ethnic minority), crop area, production by each farmer organization FO
sold to agribusiness AB, both before and after entering the PP /31..
Costs. The total cost of investment in Sub components B1 and B2 for activities concerning FOs
was VND 513 300 million (USD 25.665 million) over four years from 2010 to 2013. FOs
provided 59 per cent of investment costs with the balance of 41 per cent provided by IDA.
Benefits. The benefits to ACP investment here come in the form of increases in value added by
farmers. The PPMUs carried out surveys to assess the benefits arising from ACP’s development
of PPs which led to calculation of the net increase in the value of production of both FOs and
ABs.



/30.   All NPVs calculated in this analysis apply a discount rate of 12.0% per period, unless stated otherwise.
31
/ .    Data required for the economic analysis of FOs in Sub components B1 and B2 are detailed in Appendix 1,
       in VND in Tables 2.1 to 2.3 and in USD in Tables 2.7 to 2.9.




                                                       52
The PPMUs estimated increases in the annual value of production of FOs (Table 2.1 and 2.4 of
Appendix 1) from returns submitted for each PP and stored in the PCU data base. The benefit for
each FO was calculated as the total increase in the value of production, net of incremental
production cost (Table 2.2 and 2.8 of Appendix 1). It was assumed that benefits for FOs would
reach their full value over five years. It was further assumed that the flow of benefits would start
in the second year of each PP’s operation. It was assumed that production costs would rise to
their maximum over four years. Increases in production costs and benefits were assumed to be
proportional to those in investment costs.
Return to investment. ACP’s costs for Sub components B1 and B2 are deducted from the net
incremental value of production to derive the flow of net benefits to investment (Tables 2.3 and
2.9 of Appendix 1). The FIRR is calculated as 26% and the NPV as VND 356 838 million (USD
21.398 million).
With project costs converted to economic prices, the ERR is estimated as 29%.
Sensitivity testing. The base case indicates that the two sub components gave very attractive
returns. Sensitivity analysis then shows how the investment criteria respond to changes in key
determinant variables. Movements in key variables and resulting changes in their values are:

          Variable                    Movement (%)         FIRR (per cent)       ERR (per cent)
          Base case                           -                   26                    29
                                            +20                    22                     24
          All costs
                                            -10                    28                     31
                                            -20                    21                     23
          All benefits
                                            +10                    29                     32


Component B: Support to Productive Partnerships: Agribusiness
The PCU provided data on 98 PPs in Component B, of which 88 were concerned with Sub
component B1 and 11 with Sub component B2 / 32 .. The benefits to ACP investment for
agribusinesses come as increases in value added through their participation in PPs. The PCUs
carried out surveys to assess the benefits arising from ACP’s development of PPs which led to
calculation of the net increase in the value of production of ABs.
Costs. The total cost of investment in Sub components B1 and B2 for activities concerning ABs
was estimated as VND 20 000 million (USD 1.000 million) over four years from 2010 to 2013.
The PCU and PPMUs did not gather information on investment by the FOs. Such investment
was probably not major, as the ABs attracted to the project would be those with existing excess
capacity that could be reduced if the PPs raised throughput at their facilities.
Investment costs were assumed to be the sum ACP’s disbursement of IDA loan funds and the
contribution of ABs. With no data on ABs’ contribution of funds, the only estimate of their
investment comes from consideration that each might receive a maximum of USD 20 000 as



/32.      Costs and benefits for ABs from Sub components B1 and B2 are detailed in Appendix 1, in VND in Tables
2.4 to 2.6 and in USD in Tables 2.10 to 2.12.


                                                      53
matching grant. PCU disbursement data suggests that the total IDA amount disbursed for ABs was
about VND 20 billion (USD 1.0 million).
Benefits. The PPMUs estimated annual increases in production by the ABs (Table 2.4 and 2.10
of Appendix 1) from returns submitted for each PP. The benefit for each AB was calculated as
the total increase in the value of production, net of incremental production costs. Increases in
production costs (Tables 2.5 and 2.11 of Appendix 1) were deducted from increases in the value
of production to derive the incremental net value of production for ABs.
It was assumed that benefits to ABs would build over five years to their maximum and that they
would start in the second year of each PP’s operation. It was assumed that production costs
would increase to their maximum over four years. The rates of increase in production costs and
net benefits are assumed to be proportional to those of investment cost.
Return to investment. ACP’s investment costs for Sub components B1 and B2 are set against
the net incremental value of production is set against ACP’s to derive the flow of net benefits to
investment (Tables 2.6 and 2.12 of Appendix 1). The FIRR is calculated as 13.3% and the NPV
as VND 21 398 million (USD 1.070 million).
Applying the conversion factor 0.9, costs in economic prices fall by 10% and the ERR rises to
13.4%.
Sensitivity testing. As the base case indicates that the two sub components gave very attractive
returns, the most important sensitivity test for the post investment analysis is the effect of
movements in key variables away from those in the base case. Movements in key variables and
the resulting changes in their values are:


       Variable                                 Movement (%)           FIRR (per cent)         ERR (per cent)
       Base case                                        -                    13.3                    13.4
       All costs                                      + 20                   13.1                    13.2
                                                      -10                    13.4                    13.5
       All benefits                                   -20                    10.3                    10.7
                                                      +10                    16.5                    16.7


Component C: Provision of Critical Infrastructure: Roads
The provision of rural roads by ACP led to direct and indirect improvements in production and
commerce. ACP improved 140 short (0.25-3.0 km) lengths that were impassable and provided
benefits to people in the project area of greater access and reduced travel time, transport costs
and post-harvest losses. Data collected by ACP concentrated on the crop area benefitting and the
reduction of post-harvest losses and transport costs /33.
Costs. The total cost of investment for improvement of roads in Component C was VND 441
404 million, or USD 22.070 million (Table 3.1 of Appendix 1) over the years 2010m to 2014.



/33.       Extractions from the PCU data base for analysis of the costs and benefits of investments in improving roads
           are in Table 3.1 of Appendix 1.


                                                            54
Maintenance costs, which will continue throughout the life of the roads, are assumed to be 5.0
per cent of capital cost per year/
Benefits. The PPMUs commissioned sample surveys of people affected by the road projects to
obtain their opinions on the impact of the improvements on their post-harvest losses of produce
and transport costs. The results were then used to estimate benefits for each road sub project. The
PPMU/PCU analysis gave total annual benefits for each sub project. In this analysis it is assumed
that benefits rise to their maximum over five years and that their rate of increase matches that of
construction cost. It is further assumed that the flow of benefits commences in the year after
construction.
Return to investment. The cost of road improvement and maintenance is deducted from the
value of benefits (reduction in post-harvest produce losses and transport costs) to give the stream
of net benefits (Tables 3.2 and 33 of Appendix 1). The FIRR is calculated as 26.1% and the NPV
as VND 288 769 million (USD 14.438 million).
Applying the SCF of 0.9, the ERR is calculated as 29.7%.
Sensitivity testing. The base case indicates that the road investments gave excellent returns in
both financial and economic terms. The sensitivity of the investment criterion is tested for
movements in key variables away from and towards those in the base case. Movements in key
variables and the resulting changes in their values are:


   Variable                            Movement (%)        FIRR (per cent)     ERR (per cent)
   Base case                                 -                  26.1                29.7
   All costs                                + 20                23.0                26.4
                                            -10                 29.7                33.7
   All benefits                             -20                 22.7                26.1
                                            +10                 29.3                33.8


The economic analysis of investment in improving 140 rural road links shows high FIRR and
ERR. This should be expected as the works undertaken for short lengths of road rendered much
longer links passable, so that benefits to whole sections could be resumed.

Component C: Provision of Critical Infrastructure: Irrigation Works
ACP carried out a substantial programme in irrigation, improving facilities at 33 schemes in
eight provinces. The varied works included attention to pumping stations, water storage facilities
and feeder and in-field canals. Data collected by ACP concentrated on the cost of works, the crop
area benefitting and increases in production arising from improved supply and control of water.
The economic analysis for 33 irrigation schemes by PPMUs/PCU included some schemes with
extraordinarily high rates of return considerably beyond those available for irrigation projects or
agriculture generally. In keeping with the principle of a conservative approach to ensure
confidence in its results, the analysis here excluded the five schemes with the highest calculated
benefits.


                                                  55
Costs. The total cost of investment for improvement of the 28 irrigation schemes included in the
analysis was VND 76 976 million, or USD 3.849 million (Tables 3.4 and 3.5 of Appendix 1)
over the years 2010m to 2014. Annual maintenance costs, which will continue throughout the
life of the roads, are assumed to be 5.0 per cent of capital cost.
Benefits. The PPMUs commissioned surveys of people stakeholders to obtain their opinions on
the impact of the improvements to irrigation on their operations and production. The
stakeholders’ estimates of increases in production were then used to calculate annual benefits for
each irrigation works sub project. It is assumed that benefits rise to their maximum over five
years and that their rate of increase matches that of construction cost. It is assumed that the first
benefits occur in the year after construction.
Return to investment. The costs of investment and maintenance for irrigation works are
deducted from the incremental value of production to give the stream of net benefits (Tables 3.3
and 3.4 of Appendix 1). The FIRR is calculated as 21% and the NPV as VND 83 003 million
(USD 1.650 million).
Applying the conversion factor of 0.9, the ERR is calculated as 24%.
Sensitivity testing. The base case is that investments in irrigation gave high financial and
economic returns. The robustness of that conclusion is tested by considering the impact on the
investment criteria of movements in key variables away from and towards those in the base case.
Movements in key variables and the resulting changes in their values are:


   Variable                             Movement (%)        FIRR (per cent)      ERR (per cent)
   Base case                                  -                   21                   24
                                             + 20                 16                   19
   All costs
                                             -10                  24                   27
                                             -20                  15                   18
   All benefits
                                             +10                  27                   30


          C.      Post Investment Economic and Financial Analysis: Whole Project

Economic Analysis
The economic analysis finds that ACP has generated very acceptable returns to investment by the
Government and people of Vietnam. The very conservative analysis estimates the ERR to
investment as 21% which is considerable higher than he likely opportunity cost of capital and the
cost of funds to the Government of Vietnam and the Project’s stakeholders. The real return is
somewhat higher, as the analysis included the benefits from sub components and activities that
could not be calculated from readily available data.
While a highly conservative approach is taken to the analysis, the ERR would remain very
acceptable with even major adverse movements in key determinant variables. An increase of
20% in project costs would reduce the ERR to 17%; a reduction of 20% in all benefits would
give an ERR of 16%; deferral of the flow of benefits for one year would give an ERR of 17%. A




                                                   56
combination of those adverse movements in project costs, quantity of benefits and the flow of
benefits would lead to an ERR of 14%.
Returns to investment in components and sub components varied moderately. The ERR to only
those parts of ACP that could be calculated from readily available data was 25%. The returns to
all analyzed sub components and activity groups that could be readily analyzed were very
acceptable, with ERRs ranging down from 30% for roads, to 27 % for enhancement of
agricultural technology (Sub component A1 and A2), to 24% for irrigation works and to 22% for
development and support of PPs (Sub component B1 and B2).

Financial Analysis
Financial analysis is intended to show how the costs and returns of those affected, as experienced
in their investments and commercial transactions, vary as a result of a project. The data collected
by the PPMUs and PCU do not cater for detailed financial analysis, as they do not include the
costs and returns experienced by individuals in PPs or being affected by infrastructure
investments. The financial analysis is therefore necessarily broad and can give only indicative
conclusions. The Project’s costs and returns were analyzed in financial process as well as
economic prices to show its impact on the enterprises of stakeholders. The overall financial rate
of return was estimated as 23%, suggesting that private investors (FOs, ABs and farmers) might
be able, on average, to earn similar returns to their investments in enterprises.
The most important financial analysis was for the investments in PPs by FOs and ABs, as
acceptable returns to their investments are key to profitability, success of the sub component,
component and project and to sustainability of the commercial practices introduced. The FIRR to
investment in Sub components B1 and B2 to develop and support PPs was estimated as 21%
which should be an strong incentive to private sector investment by FOs and ABs. The analysis
suggests that the FOs may have gained higher returns to investment with the FIRR for their
investments in ACP averaging 26%, while that of ABs was 13%.
Conclusions
The major conclusion of the economic analysis is that ACP has generated returns to investment
by the people of Vietnam that are very acceptable, being considerably above the opportunity cost
of capital. Estimated returns to sub components and activity groups that could be analyzed using
readily available data suggest that all have performed very well in increased production and
raising productivity to lift incomes and returns of its target groups. That economic returns varied
little among them suggests that the combination of components and sub components was well
selected and designed to pursue the development objective.
The financial analysis shows that the critical part of ACP, development of productive
partnerships, gave returns to both farmer organizations and agribusinesses that should prove
attractive and lead to sustainability of the practices introduced. Farmer organizations and their
members, especially, have benefited substantially through greater market opportunities and
higher produce prices. Agribusinesses, while receiving lower financial rates of return than farmer
organizations, appear to have benefitted importantly by increasing throughput and reducing
excess capacity, thereby raising profitability with minor investment.
There can be confidence in the findings of acceptable returns as the economic and financial
analysis took a very conservative approach to all specifications and measurement of inputs,
outputs, prices, costs and benefits. That conservative approach was essential as the framework


                                                57
for economic analysis and the methods for collection of data may have led to some under- or
over- valuing both costs and benefits. Some difficulties in estimating true costs and benefits
include: (i) correct concepts and definitions of items for measuring benefits may not have been
established and followed in the collection and analysis of data by the PPMUs and PCU; (ii) there
may have been double counting of benefits to sub components, especially in the cases of support
for PPs, roads and irrigation works; (iii) the concept of identifying costs and benefits for “with
and without project” cases may not have been strictly followed, with the “before and after project”
cases used in some collections; (iv) costs may not have been defined correctly and rigorously
identified and collected; and (v) economic benefits from higher prices to farmers are probably
over-stated because they represent more of a transfer from agribusiness to farmers than an
increase in value added.
While the conservative approach applied here should have led to confidence in the findings, any
similar future project with a broad scope of activities and selection of sub projects as it proceeds
should design and follow a rigorous framework and procedures for economic and financial
analysis. Such analysis can play a very important role in review of impacts and setting directions
for components and sub components and in selecting sub projects. A worthwhile practice might
be a rolling programme of economic and financial analysis of sub projects throughout the project
period. For example, five selected sub projects might be subject to financial and economic
analysis from the outset and as each was completed it would be replaced by a new sub project.
Success of such a practice would depend on introduction from the outset and subsequent
continuing application of correct economic and financial analytical techniques.




                                                58
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes
(a) Task Team members
                                                                  Responsibility/
          Names                          Title             Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Andrew D. Goodland        Senior Agriculture Economist    AFTA3
Dung Anh Hoang            Sr Transport. Spec.             EASVS
Severin L. Kodderitzsch   Sector Manager                  AFTA2 Co-TTL
Thu Thi Le Nguyen         Operations Analyst              EASVS
Lan Thi Thu Nguyen        Natural Resources Economist     EASVS
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan       Financial Officer               GEFOB
Kien Trung Tran           Senior Procurement Specialist   EASR2
Ly Thi Dieu Vu            Environmental Consultant        EASVS
Binh Thang Cao            Sr Operations Officer           FAO/CP TTL
Thomas Finkle             Value chain Consultant
Thai Thi Bui              Value chain Consultant

Supervision/ICR
Binh Thang Cao            Sr. Agricultural Specialist       GFADR TTL
Steven Jaffee             Lead Rural Development Specialist GFADR
Thomas Muenzel            Economist                           FAO
Severin L. Kodderitzach   Practice Manager                  GFADR
Takayuki Hagiwara         M&E Specialist                      FAO
Tuan Anh Le               Social Development Specialist      GSURR
Khang Van Pham            Environmental Specialist          GENDR
Toan Huy Ngo              Environmental Specialist
Ha Thuy Tran              Sr. Financial Officer              GEFOB
Quynh Thi Xuan Phan       Sr. Financial Officer              GEFOB
Thang Toan Le             Senior Procurement Specialist     GGODR
Hiet Thi Hong Tran        Senior Procurement Specialist
Van Thi Phi Le            Agricultural R&E consultant
Thuat Tran Nguyen         Rural Infrastructure Consultant
Kazim Rahim               Value chain Consultant            FAO/CP
Tam Thi Do                Team Assistant                    EACVF
Minh Van Le               Agricultural policy Consultant       ---
An Thanh Nguyen           Information Technology Consultant    ---
Grant Robert Singleton    Pest Management Specialist          IRRI
Martin Gummert            Postharvest Development Specialist IRRI
Mona Sur                  Sr. Rural Development Specialist GFADR


                                          59
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                                             250.29

                          Total:                                   250.29
Supervision/ICR                                                    453.719

                          Total:                                   704.009




                                       60
Annex 5. Productive Partnership Score Card Manual
Purpose and Background

This scorecard is a tool to assess the success of productive partnerships between Farmers’
Organizations (FO) and Agribusinesses (AB). The scorecard system was developed to provide an
effective mechanism for readily undertaking a comprehensive analysis of partnerships and for
monitoring and evaluating FO and AB performance over time.

The scorecard covers both economic and organizational aspects of partnerships. These range
from whether the partnership has had a positive economic impact on the FO or AB in the form of
higher revenue or output, but also whether the FO and AB have clear communication, and have
made a mutual effort to strengthen the partnership.

The scorecard is divided in to six sections:

   1. Economic Benefits for Farmers’ Organization: Included to measure how the project
      has affected the FO economically. Whether or not the project has had a positive
      economic impact on the FO is a primary point of concern for FO members, and is
      relevant when considering how well the partnership is functioning.

   2. Economic Benefits for Company: Like with the FO, whether or not the project has
      increased the revenue, output or profitability of the AB partner company will play an
      integral role in how successful the AB perceives the project to be, and how willing it is to
      invest further time and funds into the partnership.

   3. Capacity Development of Farmers' Organization: The development of technical and
      managerial capacities of the FO is important for equipping farmers with the skills needed
      to take full advantage of project opportunities. With technical training, farmers display a
      drive for self-improvement and this can help farmers better understand what is needed to
      improve productivity. This will affect what they acquire during the procurement process.
      Furthermore the development of managerial skills will make the FO more competent in
      negotiations with the AB and will equip it to handle the procurement process.

   4. Commitment of Companies to Farmers: The commitment of the AB to the FO, and its
      interest in providing training, support and guidance to the FO is indicative as to whether
      the AB is interested in creating a long-term, mutually beneficial partnership.

   5. Partnership expansion: efforts to expand production or the partnership are positive
      indicators that the partnership has been successful and has long-term potential.

   6. Satisfaction with Partnership: The FO’s and AB’s personal perception of how well the
      partnership is working, and whether they are satisfied with the present arrangement must
      be taken in to account when evaluating a partnership project.



                                               61
Further details on each indicator, including sub-indicators and guiding questions for assessment,
are included below.

Important: If the project has selected an existing partnership and some situations (i.e.
market access, quality control, commitments to the partnership) remain the same as before
of the project intervention, assign the scores based on the current status.

1. Benefits for Farmers' Organization (FO)

                                                                             Scorecard
        Indicators           Score         Poor State            Marginal State      Satisfactory State      Good State
                                             (Score 0)               (Score 1)            (Score 3)            (Score 5)
1.1 Increase in FO Sales             As a result of the        Lower than before    0 - 5%                6 - 10%
Value because of PPP                 partnership, FO has       partnership
                                     significantly increased
                                     its revenues.
1.2 Prices Paid by Partner           AB is offering FO         No higher prices     0 - 5%                6 - 10%
Agribusiness (AB)                    prices above market       offered
                                     price.
1.3 Price Stability                  AB guarantees more        No change            Stable but major      Stable with minor
                                     price stability                                price fluctuations    fluctuations
                                     compared to before                             still occur
                                     partnership.
1.4 Change in FO Output              FO has significantly      Lower than before    0 - 5%                6 - 10%
due to PPP                           increased output          the partnership
                                     compared to before
                                     partnership.
1.5 Easier or Greater                FO has easier or          No change            Improved access       Improved access
Access to Market                     greater access to                              with major remain.    with minor
                                     markets through AB.                                                  problems.


1.1 Increase in FO sales value because of PPP
Assess whether participation in the Productive Partnership Project has increased FO sales. For
many of the farmers involved in the project, this will be a primary indicator as to whether or not
the partnership is considered successful.

Method of Assessment
   1. Consult the accounting books of the FO.
   2. If the FO does not keep accounting books interview FO members to get an idea of
      whether they have been having greater revenues since joining the PPP. Ask about costs
      and revenue per unit of land before and after the project began for details if possible.

1.2 Prices paid by the partner Agribusiness (AB) to FO members
One of the benefits for farmers in joining the project is when the AB offers higher prices than the
market. If the AB offers a price premium for FO members, the farmers are often more satisfied
in the partnership

Method of Assessment
      1. Consult accounting books to see if records of AB offering higher prices than market
          prices.
      2. Interview FO members about prices that AB pays them.




                                                               62
1.3 Price Stability
Determine whether FO partnership with AB has led to price stability despite market volatility.

Method of Assessment
   1. Interview FO members about movements in price. Has there been price stability after and
      because of the PPP?
   2. Consult accounting books to monitor price changes over time.

1.4 Change in output (FO) due to PPP
Assess whether participation in the project has led to higher output in the FO. This is important
because increase in sales value may just reflect higher prices.

Method of Assessment
      1. Consult accounting books to see the effect of the Productive Partnership on FO output
          levels.
      2. If accounting books are unavailable, talk with FO members about area produced?
          how much output are they getting from each unit of land? has there been any less
          waste in production?

1.5 Easier or Greater Access to Market
A potential advantage for FOs is easier or greater access to markets through their partnership
with Agribusinesses. This allows FOs to derive economic benefits from better logistics and a
larger market for their goods.

Method of Assessment
          1. Interview FO members about the changes to their access to market - do they
             benefit from better logistics or network because of AB?
          2. Consult records or major changes in organization and supply of products as
             evidence.

2. Benefits for Companies

                                                                         Scorecard
        Indicators     Score         Poor State            Marginal State       Satisfactory State        Good State
                                      (Score 0)                (Score 1)             (Score 3)             (Score 5)
2.1 Quality of                 AB is receiving better    Less than expected.   As expected but       As expected.
Commodities                    quality products than                           some issues need to
                               expected.                                       be resolved.
2.2 Quantity of                AB is receiving larger    Less than expected.   As expected, some     As expected.
Commodities                    quantity than                                   issues remain.
                               expected.
2.3 Change in Output           Compared with before      Lower than before     0 - 5%                6 - 10%
                               the partnership, the      the partnership
                               AB has significantly
                               increased its output.
2.4 Profit margin              As a result of PPP, the   Lower than before     0 - 5%                6 - 10%
                               AB is efficient in        the partnership
                               turning sales into
                               profits.




                                                         63
2.1 Quality of Commodities
AB is likely to consider the partnership a success if they can derive benefits from all aspects of
the partnership. Therefore, the products they receive from FOs must be similar to or better in
quality than the products they received before the partnership.

Method of Assessment
   1. Consult AB about the quality of commodities they have received from FO:
      a. Are they up to par with their expectations? Are there issues?
      b. Has this resulted in a positive/neutral/negative impact on their overall output or sales
          value?


2.2 Quantity of Commodities
Assess whether the PPP has met the expectations of the AB in terms of the quantity of goods
supplied.

Method of Assessment
   1. Consult AB about the quantity of commodities they have been receiving.
          a. Do the numbers meet their expectations in terms of volume of the products from
             FO? Are their issues?
          b. Has this resulted in a positive/neutral/negative impact on their overall output or
             sales value?

2.3 Change in Output
Assess whether participation in the partnership has led to higher output in the AB. This is
important because increase in sales value may just reflect higher prices, not an increase in
production. Determine if AB has increased its overall final output as a result of the partnership.

Method of Assessment
   1. Interview AB about the changes in quantity and value of their final output.
          a. Has it changed as a result of the partnership?
          b. If so, is the change positive or negative?
   2. Consult AB accounting books as evidence of positive, negative, or stable numbers.


2.4 Profit Margin
Profit margins of the AB is used to get an over-all, general picture as to whether the AB is able
to self-sustain and have funds available for re-investment.

Method of Assessment:
If available, use the enterprise’s accounting books to calculate the firm’s profit margins. Net
Profit Margins = (Net Income/Revenue) x 100, where net income is (Revenue – Costs).
If accounting books are not available, talk through AB on how much AB spends in each area of
production (e.g. per month). Use conversation about production and costs to extrapolate data
needed to calculate profit margins.



                                                 64
3. Capacity Development of Farmers' Organization

                                                                                   Scorecard
         Indicators           Score         Poor State              Marginal State        Satisfactory State        Good State
                                              (Score 0)                (Score 1)               (Score 3)              (Score 5)
 3.1 Management and                   Since the partnership,      No change.             Partially improved.    Improved, some
 organization skills                  the FO has improved                                                       issues remain.
                                      communication and
                                      leadership within the
                                      organization.
 3.2 Technical skills                 The partnership has         No change              Partially improved     Improved
                                      had a positive impact
                                      on the technical skills
                                      (e.g. farming
                                      techniques) of farmers
                                      in the FO
 3.3 Balance of                       The FO is using             Farmers invest         More than 50% of       More than 50% of
 expenditures on short term           project funds towards       largely in inputs.     financial support is   financial support is
 inputs vs. durable                   long-term,                                         used towards short     used towards
 investments (contribution            productivity raising                               term inputs            durable or long term
 to long-term productivity            investments (e.g.                                                         investments
 and capacity)                        irrigation system)
                                      rather than short-term
                                      inputs (e.g. fertilizer).


3.1 Management and organization skills
An important aspect of successful partnerships is that the FO is well organized and cohesive. A
contributing factor towards this is the management and organization skills of the FO.

Method of Assessment
      1. Interview the FO members:
             a. How was the FO was run before the project began, and how it is run now?
             b. Have any changes been made? What type of changes?
             c. Do members feel as if they have a say in FO decisions?
             d. Do FO leaders make an effort to ensure that everyone is informed of how FO
                 is run?

3.2 Technical skills
One of outputs for the project is to strengthen technical skills capacities of the Farmer’s
Organization. A factor in this is whether the project has contributed to the technical skills of the
FO members to increase productivity.

Method of Assessment
      1. Has the project led to an increase in technical skills in the FO?
      2. Has any training in farming techniques been provided? What type of training? How
          often has training occurred?

3.3 Balance of expenditures on short-term inputs vs. durable investments
Project funds should preferably be used on long-term durable investments to contribute to
farmers’ production capacity, which can have lasting effects on productivity levels and output.
Short term inputs, such as fertilizers, could have impacts in short term, but their effect is not
lasting.


                                                                  65
Method of Assessment
      1. Field visit & Interview FO Members
             a. What type of items are members of the FO procuring? Items that have a short-
                 term impact on productivity e.g. fertilizers, seeds or items that will have a
                 long-term impact on productivity and output e.g. irrigation systems, machine
                 tools.
             b. What is the percentage used for inputs vis-à-vis durable items.

          2. Consult accounting books or procurement records for evidence of what has been
             procured.

4. Commitment of AB and Farmers to Develop the partnerships

                                                                                   Scorecard
        Indicators              Score         Poor State            Marginal State         Satisfactory State          Good State
                                               (Score 0)               (Score 1)               (Score 3)                (Score 5)
4.1 Payment                             AB pays in a timely       Never                   Rarely                   Mostly
                                        and agreed-upon
                                        method.
4.2 Interest in buying all of           AB is committed to        The company             The company              Occasionally the
farmers' output                         buying all of the FO's    frequently refuses to   sometimes refuses to     company refuses to
                                        output.                   purchase suitable       buy, despite prior       buy when the
                                                                  products, despite       commitments              market price for raw
                                                                  previous                                         materials is high or
                                                                  commitments.                                     the final product
                                                                                                                   price is low.
4.3 Quality control from                There are clear quality   AB has not provided     AB has been only         AB has provided a
the partner companies                   control guidelines in     any instructions on     partially effective in   good range of basic
                                        place, which are          quality control.        providing quality        quality control
                                        directly related to the                           control instructions.    instruction to
                                        prices offered by the                                                      farmers. But the
                                        AB.                                                                        farmers are still
                                                                                                                   lacks in maintaining
                                                                                                                   quality control.
4.4 Investment /Financial               AB is invests, lends,     Never                   Rarely. AB/FO            Sometimes but more
/Credit Support from AB                 and/or secures                                    reluctant to provide     investment or
                                        financial support for                             funds for investment     financial/credit
                                        FO.                                               or financial/credit      support could be
                                                                                          support.                 undertaken.


4.1 Payment
AB – FO relations are better when the AB is able to promptly pay FO members for inputs in cash.

Method of Assessment
      1. Interview FO members about how the AB pays in a timely and agreed-upon method?

4.2 Interest in buying all of farmers' output
ABs that are willing to buy all of the FO output will have a positive relationship with the FO,
because a common worry among farmers is to find a market for their goods at a reasonable price.

Method of Assessment
      1. Interview FO about whether the AB is interested in buying all of their output.



                                                                  66
       2. Interview AB about who supplies inputs. For the input that the FO is producing, how
          much does AB buy from FO?

4.3 Quality control from the partner companies
Clear quality control guidelines, and pricing according to these discrete measurements, means
that both the AB and FO are able to understand, and challenge, how quality and prices are set.
This is also important for FO members in production, so that they are able to adapt their
production to AB needs.


Method of Assessment
   1. Interview AB
          a. Does it have quality guidelines to classify product 'x'?
          b. How does it measure different qualities?
          c. Are its prices tied to these quality standards?
   2. Interview FO
          a. Has the AB communicated its quality guidelines?
          b. Are they clear and understandable?
          c. Does the FO agree with these quality distinctions?

4.4 Investment/Financial/Credit Support from AB
Whether or not AB uses its own resources to invest in FO or provides financial or credit support
directly or indirectly as guarantors shows willingness and commitment to PPP.

Method of Assessment
   1. Interview AB
          a. Has it invested its own resources into the partnership?
          b. Has it provided financial or credit support whether directly or by acting as
              guarantors?
          c. If so, how much and how often?
   2. Interview FO
          a. Has its partner AB invested its own resources into the partnership?
          b. Has AB provided direct or indirect financial or credit support?
          c. If so, how much and how often?

4.5 Share of production sold to Agribusinesses by partner farmers
The share of production sold to the AB by the FO is indicative of how ‘tight’ the partnership is,
and whether the FO is fully invested in fostering a partnership with the project AB.

Method of Assessment
      1. Ask FO:
             a. How much of its output does it sell to the AB?
             b. Does it sell output to any other sources?
             c. What is the break-down of revenue?
      2. If available, consult accounting records.




                                                67
5. Partnership Expansion

                                                                                 Scorecard
         Indicators            Score        Poor State            Marginal State        Satisfactory State         Good State
                                             (Score 0)               (Score 1)               (Score 3)              (Score 5)
 5. Partnership expansion
 5. Expansion of Partnership           AB has expanded the      AB is not interested   AB has expressed        The company has
                                       extent of the            in expanding           the intension to        started taking
                                       partnership over time.   partnerships with      expand the              actions to expand its
                                                                FOs/new farmers.       partnership with        markets but no clear
                                                                                       FOs/new farmers,        results are apparent.
                                                                                       but no action has
                                                                                       been taken.
 5.2 Exploration of                    AB has expanded into     The company is not     The company has         The company has
 additional markets                    new markets since the    intending to expand    indicated that it       started taking
                                       start of the project.    into new markets.      plans to expand into    actions to expand its
                                                                                       new markets, but no     markets but no clear
                                                                                       action has been         results are apparent.
                                                                                       taken.
 5.3 Expansion of the                  AB has increased its     The company does       The company has         The company has
 company's production                  production capacity.     not intend to expand   indicated an            definite plans to
 capacity                                                       its operations.        intension to expand     expand its
                                                                                       its operation, but no   operations as a
                                                                                       action has been         result of the
                                                                                       taken.                  partnership and has
                                                                                                               begun activities.


5.1 Expansion of the partnership
Actions or plans to expand the partnership indicate that the project has results in a successful
collaboration, and one that will affect a greater number of farmers in the future.

Method of Assessment
      1. Interview AB
             a. Has it extended the partnership to any more FOs or farmers, or increased the
                 depth of collaboration with partners?
             b. Is it planning to do so?
      2. Interview FO:
             a. Have any farmers left the partnership?
             b. Why did they leave?
             c. Was it due to external reasons or project-related reasons?

5.2 Exploration of additional markets
If the AB is moving in to new markets, it will mean an uptake in output and a greater need for
inputs. This could lead to an expansion in the number of partner farmers.

Method of Assessment
      1. Interview AB:
             a. Has it moved in to any new markets since joining the partnership?
             b. Is it planning to do so?
             c. What actions has it taken and what have been the results?




                                                                68
5.3 Expansion of the company's production capacity
An expansion of the AB’s production capacity suggests an eventual need for further inputs,
which would have an impact on expanding the partnership.

Method of Assessment
      1. Interview AB:
              a. Has there been any investment in expanding the production level of the
                  factory? If so, what? What has been the effect of these changes?
      2. Check accounting books to see if any changes in output or production capacity, any
          fixed investments that have been made, or better utilization of existing capacity.


6. Satisfaction with Partnership

                                                                                Scorecard
        Indicators            Score         Poor State           Marginal State        Satisfactory State        Good State
                                            (Score 0)               (Score 1)               (Score 3)             (Score 5)
6. Satisfaction with Partnership
                                      AB is satisfied with     Unsatisfied - no       Neutral - does not     Generally satisfied -
6.1 Company satisfaction              the partnership and      longer wants to be     feel better or worse   but feels a few
with PPP                              considers it important   involved.              off because of PPP.    changes could be
                                      to its operations.                                                     made
                                      FO is very satisfied     Unsatisfied - no       Neutral - does not     Generally satisfied –
6.2 Farmer satisfaction               with the partnership.    longer wants to be     feel better or worse   but feels a few
with PPP                                                       involved.              off because of PPP.    changes could be
                                                                                                             made.
6.3 Share of production               FO sells all of its      Less than 50%          51 - 75%               76 - 99%
sold to Agribusinesses by             output to the
partner farmers                       Agribusiness.
                                      AB and FO engage in      Never                  Rarely                 Sometimes
                                      frequent
6.4 Communication                     communication and
                                      promote consistent
                                      flow of information.


6.1 Company's satisfaction with the partnership
The company’s expressed satisfaction with the partnership is a useful indication for the future
prospects of the partnership.

Method of Assessment
      1. Interview AB:
             a. Is it happy with the partnership so far?
             b. Is it planning on continuing the partnership in the future?
             c. What aspects of the partnership have been the most beneficial?

6.2 Farmer's satisfaction with the partnership
The FO’s expressed satisfaction with the partnership is a useful indication for the future
prospects of the partnership.

Method of Assessment
      2. Ask FO:



                                                               69
             a. Is it happy with the partnership so far?
             b. Is it planning on keeping it in the future?
             c. What aspects of the partnership have been the most beneficial? Do all
                members of the FO agree that the partnership has been positive?


6.4 Communication
    1. Ask AB:
          a. How frequently does FO and AB communicate and encourage transparency and
             flow of information?
    2. Ask FO:
          a. How frequently does FO and AB communicate and encourage transparency and
             flow of information




                                         70
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results
The ACP-PCU contracted consulting firms to review performance of two provinces – Binh Dinh
and Gia Lai provinces. As a part of the review, the consulting firms carried out a simple
beneficiary survey. The method used in the survey is not the same in the two provinces. Key
findings of the surveys are summarized below.

Binh Dinh

Component A

A total of 136 local staff/people in 6 communities (each community had a different training
subject) were interviewed.34 The survey results are shown in the table below.

Key findings
    The majority of all component-A beneficiaries responded they were satisfied with the
        training.
    Equally, the majority said that they recognize technical impacts of the subjects.
    The beneficiaries on “Shrimp hatching”, “IPM on Cashew”, and “IMP on Mango” think
        that they would keep practicing, but the other beneficiaries are not positive on the
        technology.
    In terms of sustainability, the majority does not see that these technologies will be
        sustainable except “Shrimp hatching”.

                                    Table 1. Component A survey results
                         Living Conditions      Satisfaction     Technical Impacts Keep Practicing    Sustainability
                       Improved No change       Yes       No       Yes       No     Yes      No       Yes      No
     Wilt peanut               16           0      15          1      14        2       3        13        1       15
     Hybrid acacia             14           6      18          2      18        2       0        20        0       20
     Shrimp hatching           16           2      18          0      16        2      15         3      17          1
     IPM on cashew             20           0      20          0      20        0      20         0        4       16
     IPM on mango                6         14      20          0      19        1      20         0        8       12
     VietGAP rice                5         15      20          0      19        1       7        13        8       12
                               77          37     111          3     106        8      65        49      38        76

Component B

Key findings
    The majority responded positively for the five questions listed in the table blow.
    One third of the beneficiaries responded that support from enterprises could have been
        better.




34
   114 farmers participating in Component A in 6 communes. 98 respondents are male and 16 respondents
are female. Also surveyed were local government officials.



                                                         71
                                      Table 2. Component B survey results
                                                     Very Dissatisfied Dissatisfied     Satisfied     Very satisfied
     Purchase of material/facility in PPs                        0.6              0.4            38               61
     Training activities once participating in PPs                  0             0.3          39.7               60
     HH’s participation in PPs                                      0               0          46.6             53.4
     Purchase price of enterprises in PPs                        2.5            19.7           58.8               19
     Support from enterprises under PPs                          2.5               30            54             13.5


Some other findings (detailed table is not provided in the report)
    100% of HHs would like to continue with Productive partnerships.
    96% of HHs indicated the product quality became better than before participating in PPs.
    100% of HHs said PPs provided information useful for increasing their incomes; of
       which 92% think that they have adopted knowledge acquired from participation in PPs.
    87% of HH think that productive partnerships are sustainable.
    100% of HH hope that productive partnerships will continue developing.

Gia Lai

Component A

A total of 611 beneficiaries were interviewed.35 As shown in the table below, the majority of
beneficiaries expressed their satisfaction with project activities.
Products, prices and costs:
          56% of interviewees indicate that their production has been increased, while 38.4% say
           unchanged and 5.8% say declined.
          45.7% answered that the selling price has been increased.
          73.1% responded that the cost of production has reduced.
          63% said they have increased product quality.
Application of techniques into production models:
          92.5% of interviewees answered that they applied the new techniques.
          97.6% said that they continue using the techniques introduced by the project.
Sharing knowledge with neighbors:
    83.7% of interviewees have their neighbor applying shared techniques, in which 23.1%
       have their neighbors fully applying.




35
     208 people for component A; 83 people for component B and 320 people for component C




                                                            72
                                   Table. 3 Farmer’s Satisfaction
                         Component A           Component B          Component C       Total of A, B, C
       Level of
     satisfaction      Number                 Number               Number             Number
                                    (%)                  (%)                  (%)                (%)
                       (people)               (people)             (people)           (people)

 Unsatisfied                 10       4.8            0         -          0       0         10      1.6
 Little satisfied            15       7.2            2     2.4            2    0.6          19      3.1
 Rather satisfied            21      10.1           11    13.3           24    7.5          56      9.2
 Satisfied                   43      20.7           19    22.9          161   50.3         223     36.5
 Satisfied much             119      57.2           36    43.4          133   41.6         288     47.1
 No information               0           -         15    18.1            0       0         15      2.5
 Total                      208     100.0           83   100.0          320   100          611     100
Source: Consultant’ interviews using questionnaires (Note: “No Information” under Component
B suggest that 15 people who interviewed were not aware of the activity)


Component B

Quality and production of agricultural products:
        82% said that their product quality has been improved after participating in PP while 18%
         think that the quality is unchanged.
        61 interviewees indicate that their production has increased after participation in PP while
         22 indicate no change.
Chemical residue check:
        41% of the interviewees had their products checked for chemical residue
Product price:
        Only 40% responded that the selling price has been increased, while 60% said
         unchanged.
        35% said that they sold all their products to their partner agribusinesses, while 65% sold
         partly or did not sell products to their partner agribusinesses. The reasons for not selling
         their saleable output to the PP agribusiness include: (i) substandard quality products; (ii)
         higher price offered by outside their partner agribusinesses; and (iii) agribusinesses’ lack
         of capital.




                                                  73
                             Figure 1: Satisfaction rates in 5 PPs




Source: Surveys with questionnaires.

Component C

Major findings include:
      Close to 100% found infrastructure works under ACP to be very useful and satisfied.
      98% of the interviewees said that the time to travel has been reduced.
      82% of the interviewees see that there were no environmental impacts caused by
       construction activities. Some 97.5% of farmers are willing to contribute to the
       construction cost. However, there are only 36% of the farmers who participate in
       Operation and Maintenance (O&M) training courses.




                                              74
Annex 7 : Summary of Borrower's ICR

                                         1. INTRODUCTION
The Agriculture Competitiveness Project (ACP) was funded by International
Development Association (IDA/WB) as major donor and Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA) as co-financing agency, with a total of USD 75 million
(original), comprising of Loan amount of USD 59.8 million, Private fund of USD 12.9
million, and GoV fund of USD 2.3 million (counterpart fund). Executive Implementing
Agency is Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development The project area included 8
central coastal and highland provinces (Thanh Hoa, Nghe An, Binh Dinh, Ninh Thuan,
Binh Thuan, Gia Lai, Dak Lak and Lam Dong); and 7 additional provinces in Mekong
Delta (Can Tho, Kien Giang, Dong Thap, An Giang, Soc Trang, Tien Giang and Long An.
The project came to an end in June 2014 in accordance with regulations of World Bank
(WB) and the Government of Vietnam (GoV) stipulated in Circular No.01/2014/TT-
BKHDT dated 9th January 2014 of Ministry of Planning and Investment (MPI) guiding a
number of articles of Decree No. 38/2013/ND-CP dated April 23rd 2013 of the
Government on use and management of official development assistance (ODA) and
concessional loans from donors.

                                             2. Project Costs
Table 2: Project cost by Components
                                                                                Unit: USD million
                                                                     Original            Revised (a)
  No.                        Components
                                                                  Total     IDA       Total       IDA
         Component A: Enhancement of Agricultural
   I                                                               16,2      16,2      15,6           15,1
         Technology
  II     Component B: Support to Productive Partnerships           28,5      15,6      28,2           12,7
  III    Component C: Provision of Critical Infrastructure         24,0      22,2      26,7           23,9
         Component D: Support for Project Management and
  IV                                                                6,3      5,8      7,6 (b)          4,7
         Institutional Strengthening
         Contingencies (for exchange rate difference between
                                                                    0,0      0,0       3,5             3,5
         SDR and USD)
         Total                                                     75,0      59,8      81,6           59,8
Source: PCU    (a)Revised by Decision No. 3008/QD-BNN-KH (b)CIDA $3.1 m.



Table 3: Project financing by donors and contributors
                                                                                Unit: USD million
                           Sources of fund                                 Original             Revised (a)
 Recipient (Vietnam)                                                         2,3                    3,7
 International Development Association (IDA)                                59,8                   59,8
 Private fund                                                               12,9                   15,0
 Canadian International Development Association (CIDA)                       0,0                    3,1
                                Total                                       75,0                   81,6


                                                 75
Source: PCU
    (a) Revised by Decision No. 3008/QD-BNN-KH




                     1. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOMES
Most of the planned targets of the project were achieved and exceeded. Particularly, the
number of research topics accepted by agribusinesses or developed into extension
packages increased by 3.93 times and the transportation time to closest market reduced
by 3.3 times compared to the revised original design, and farmers trained in new farming
practices through contracted extension services, created job for farmers benefited from
new infrastructure financed by ACP also increased 1.87, 1.42, 1.91 time respectively.
“The ACP project was successful and achieved its planned PDOs”.


1.1 Components and Outputs
(a) Component A
Subcomponents A1 and A2: Conducting technology R&D for competitive
agriculture and enhancing sustainable farming practices.
During the project implementation period of 5 years from 2009 to 2013, a total of 154
extension packages (including 17 scaling-up packages) have been procured (100
packages under A1 and 54 packages under A2) and successfully delivered to farmers in
eight project provinces in the Central Coast and Highlands. Overall, about 82% of the
selected extension packages addressed various technical aspects of crops, 13% for
livestock, and 5% for fisheries. As reported by M&E consultant, 59 delivered packages
(40%) were assessed to be “highly satisfactory”; 88 delivered packages (55%) were
“satisfactory”; and just 7 packages were average or poor. The implementation of the
aforementioned extension packages has made substantial positive impacts and
contributions on the development of the agriculture sector in project provinces in the
Central Coast and Highlands.
Subcomponent A3: Monitoring and controlling chemical residues
The project has provided training for about 17,500 farmers on sampling methods and the
use of the test kits as well as government’s regulations on the use of agro-chemicals. The
project has also provided 1,250 GT test kits with a total of 5,081 sets of reagents to
farmer organizations and individuals followed by training to help them perform quick
analysis of chemical residues in their produce by themselves. ). It is noted that the
participation of farmers in these activities contributed to their confidence in the benefits
of adopting ‘GAP’, at the same time, the results from the analysis would help increase
producers’ bargaining power when selling their produce to buyers (i.e. agribusinesses and
supermarkets).
Project activities in Mekong Delta Region




                                                 76
The work mainly focused on promoting sustainable rice farming, which involved: (i) the
demonstration sites/ training of farmers on the ‘one must-five reductions’ (1M; 5Rs)
agronomic techniques 36 for rice; (ii) working with existing farmer groups and
cooperatives to apply the ‘large field/ small farm’ model of coordinated production; (iii)
the provision of equipment and facilities to these groups/ cooperatives to reduce post-
harvest losses and improve market linkages; and (iv) the development of a robust
technical basis for GHG monitoring of rice fields – covering farmers adopting the ‘1M;
5Rs’ approach and those in the control group. Project achievements in MKD: (i) From
the 2012/13 Winter-Spring Crop to the 2013/14 Winter-Spring Crop, the project provided
multiple training courses (3-4 days/training course) on the ‘1M 5Rs’ agronomic
techniques for rice for 33,044 farmers, of which 6,353 (19.2%) were women and 2,692
(8.1%) were ethnic minorities. The “1M 5Rs” demonstration model covered a total area
of 16,454 ha and the “1M 5Rs’ model was applied over a total area of 42,562 ha. (ii) The
project supported participating provinces and cooperatives/farmer groups 21 combined
harvest machines, 20 horizontal drying machines, 1 vertical drying machine, 20 laser
machines for land leveling, 20 paddy storage facilities and shelters for dryers. All
machinery and equipment have been procured and delivered to cooperatives and farmer
groups. Paddy storage facilities (phase 1 and phase 2) and shelters for dryers were
constructed, installed and handed over to communes, cooperatives and farmers.


(b) Component B (Support to Productive Partnerships)
Subcomponents B1 and B2: Establishing new productive partnerships and scaling
up successful value chain initiatives
Of a total of 105 established production partnerships (PPs), 98 PPs (87 PPs under B1 and
11 PPs under B2, involving 15,811 farmers) have completed implementation of their
approved business plans with positive results, 7 PPs were cancelled after a few months of
operations. There was a wide range of partnerships supported under the project, with
those for tree crops accounting for 26%, seed production accounting for 20%, followed in
number by PPs on high quality vegetables, and on livestock. With regard to 98 PPs
operating till the end of the project, there was a total participation of 15,191 households,
including 3,885 women, 2,082 ethnic minorities. According to the PPMU’s surveys, 50
ABs have expanded their markets thanks to their participation in the PPs. Some ABs
entered new markets (domestic and international) thanks to improved product quality and
diversified products aiming at higher-end markets.
Subcomponent B3: Implementing an information campaign, networking and match
making
Quantifiable results of Subcomponent B3 were reflected in the following: the project
supported 201 roundtable workshops involving 14,164 local participants. These
workshops were also a means to introduce agribusinesses to farmers. The project also
produced some 209 video clips for broadcasting on local television channels; 79,500



36 “One must”: use certified seed; “five reductions”: reducing seed, fertilizers, pesticides, post -harvest
losses, and water use.


                                                      77
leaflets, 456 issues of newsletters, 9,274 audio books, and 11,100 other communication
items for dissemination in the project provinces.
Subcomponent B4: Fostering the agricultural investment climate and improving
service delivery
A range of activities were undertaken at the central or provincial levels to influence the
prevailing enabling environment for agricultural value chain development.
(c) Component C: Provision of Critical Infrastructure.
Subcomponent C1 and C2: Supporting locally identified infrastructure priorities
and providing infrastructure support to productive partnerships
A total of 186 small-scale rural infrastructure schemes have been financed by the project,
of which 125 schemes were under Subcomponent C1, and 61 schemes under
Subcomponent C2. Of a total of 186 schemes, there were 139 rural road schemes. In
aggregate, the project financed new construction or upgrading of 271 km of rural road, 48
km of canal, 8 power transformer stations with 23.4 km of power transmission line, and
7,300 m2 of drying yard. Thanks to upgraded rural roads, transportation time across the
upgraded schemes has been reduced by about 66% (a reduction of 3.3 times compared to
the original target of 20%), transportation costs reduced by 29%, and post-harvest losses
reduced by 30% (a reduction of 1.5 times compared to the original target of 20%).
Critical infrastructure schemes financed by the project generated the added value of USD
10.8 million a year.
(d) Component D: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
Subcomponents D1 and D2: Project Management and Institutional Strengthening
and Monitoring and Evaluation
There appeared some confusion and delays at the initial time of project implementation,
but the project management has basically met required targets; financial management and
procurement, including auditing, were assessed to be satisfactory at both central and local
levels. Project implementation progressed significantly since the Mid-Term Review
(MTR) and performed well in the final stage of the project, particularly with regard to
activities in the MKD region. The Regional Technical Assistance Office (RTAO) and
local consultants in provinces have supported the PCU, PPMUs, and farmers with
improved technical and managerial knowledge related to the project, thereby contributing
to success of the project
1.2.     Key factors affecting project implementation and outcomes
   1.2.1 Project Preparation and Quality at Entry
During project preparation, extensive participation and consultation, including the social
assessment and environmental assessment processes, were carried out. Project design was
practical, with emphasis placed on enhancing competitiveness of smallholder farmers in
central coastal and highland provinces; solutions of supporting critical infrastructure
priorities connecting production and marketing (subcomponent C1) as well as of
providing infrastructure support to productive partnerships were included in project
design.



                                            78
The Bank appraised the project with full diligence and the identified project interventions
were of priority to the country and to the CAS related to sectoral development and highly
relevant in the context of Vietnam’s accession to the WTO in 2007. Particularly, the
project directly met the first goal in the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) of the WB
for the 2007-2011 periods, which aimed to improve business environment.
   1.2.2   Policy and Legal Environment
PPs were formed during the time of crisis of the world economy and economic downturn
of the national economy, some ABs and FOs initially did not believe in the project
initiative of setting up PPs. Implementing the policy of the GoV to promote linkages in
production and marketing, PCU and PPMUs, in association with ABs and FOs to set up
105 PPs, in which 98 PPs were considered successful. As a result, the concept of PP has
now been popular in all provinces nationwide especially in the MKD region.
   1.2.3   Project implementation and management
(a) Assessment of ensuring financial, technical and human resource conditions
The WB and CIDA ensured adequate supply of funds in accordance with fund
withdrawal requests of PCU and PPMUs as stipulated in the Agreement. The central and
local governments provided their counterpart funds to the project; however, delays in
provision of counterpart funds occurred in some provinces during the initial time of
project implementation. It is noted that the private sector fully contributed the committed
amount of fund of USD 14.62 million to the project. In this regard, the ACP indicated
valuable experience in attracting the private sector to participate in PPP projects for
promoting investment in agriculture.
MARD and participating provinces arranged sufficient personnel, including leaders and
staffs in charge of project implementation in PCU and PPMUs. RTAO’s Consultants and
provincial consultants were selected to support project implementation. Generally
speaking, MARD and Provincial People’s Committees provided sufficient human
resources to implement the project.
(b) Project implementation arrangement
In spite of full decentralization of project implementation, a close and effective
collaboration between the project with stakeholders, between the central level and
participating provinces, between PPMUs and PPs, cooperatives, FOs, contractors, and
service providers, was established and maintainedt. The ACP was implemented in 8
provinces in the central region and 7 provinces in the MKD, in which participating
provinces under Subcomponent B2 scattered from the North to the South, with numerous
differences in terms of natural and socio-economic conditions. The ACP employed highly
decentralized management practices, reflecting a right policy. The concerned ministries,
central agencies and implementing agencies cooperated closely with the WB during
project implementation and supervision. Most of the actions agreed during supervision
missions or recommended in audit and procurement ex post review reports were followed
up in a satisfactory manner .
(c) Project management and implementation capacity




                                            79
Project management and implementation capacity has been strengthened since 2012.
Project consultants have provided increasingly active and effective support to PCU and
PPMUs; Leaders of MARD and Provincial Project Steering Committees have provided
close guidance and increased support to project activities to accelerate implementation
and disbursement progress; Specialists of the WB and APMB provided supports and
guidance to facilitate project activities related to organization of workshops/seminars,
training courses on financial management, bidding and procurement procedures
From project effectiveness to the end 2010, due to the absence of consultants, no
assessment of M&E indicators was conducted to monitor project activities in
participating provinces. Since the third year, project M&E gradually been improve; the
M&E system from the central to provincial levels operated effectively and was
computerized; so, all of the M&E indicators were monitored and reported on a regular
basis. Accordingly, it can be seen that one of the project's successes is the efficient
application of information technology in management of project activities.
1.2.4   Project procurement
The overall procurement performance under the project is assessed to be ‘moderately
satisfactory’. Generally, procurement procedures of the project both at PCU and PPMUs
were carried out in accordance with the Bank’s. As of 30/06/2014, the ACP awarded a
total of 2,398 packages, valued at USD 52.686 million.
1.2.5   Clearance and resettlement
Land acquisition and implementation of land clearance, compensation and resettlement
activities in accordance with the Bank's requirements, and the GoV’s regulations, which
were conducted smoothly without any complaints thanks to the concerted efforts and
close coordination between project staffs and the local governments, the spirit of
constructive cooperation and support of the affected people.


                              1. SOCIO-ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.3 Quantifiable Benefits
Results of economic analysis showed the following: (i) Research topics of technology
transfer of Component A (Subcomponents A1 & A2) had the economic rate of return
(ERR) of 26.05%; (ii) Productive partnership (Subcomponents B1 & B2) had the ERR of
28.93% for FOs, and the ERR of 13.4% for ABs; and (iii) Rural infrastructure
construction (Subcomponents C1 & C2) had the ERR of 29.86% for rural road scheme
and the ERR of 28.93% for irrigation scheme. Overall, the ACP is economically viable
with the ERR of 21.17%. Sensitivity analysis indicated that the project is still
economically viable with the ERR of 13.46% (higher than the threshold level of
economic analysis) in the worst scenario with cost increases by 20% and benefit
decreases by 20% at the same time.
1.4 Unquantifiable Benefits
There were many important unquantifiable benefits generated by the project, including:
(i) officials at central and local government participating in the project have improved
their knowledge. (ii) Research activities under Component A will be replicated under


                                          80
other initiatives of government and others; (iii) Institutional capacity has been
strengthened in order to manage development projects.


                                    2. LESSONS LEARNED
1.5 Regarding future agriculture development projects
Project Approach: The reality of the ACP implementation shows that promoting
sustainable transformation of key value chains (e.g., rice, coffee, etc.,) in key regions
(MKD and Central Highlands) toward focusing on commercial production of agricultural
produce is considered to be the selected priority for future projects.
Connective Infrastructure Development: The design feature of focusing infrastructure
upgrades in areas of high smallholder commercialization potential, is quite valid and this
approach can complement parallel infrastructure initiatives more focused on poverty
reduction and reaching remote communities.
EM and gender considerations: Participating provinces prepared EMDPs and gender
considerations from the beginning of the project and updated them on an annual basis in
order to bring socio-economic benefits for ethnic minorities and local women, which also
contributed to ensure the fulfillment of indicators as planned.
Financial Management: The success of the ACP in mobilization of USD 14.6 million
of private funds in addition to the project financing of USD 11.7 million indicated that
the PPP model, including the PPs model between FOs and ABs is applicable and
replicable in new projects.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The role of consultants in designing and making the M&E
system operational should be more focused; they should (a) organize the routine
collection of data by project staff through operational processes; and (b) assist in the
preparation of a base-line study and in analyzing the impact of project interventions.



                    3. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
1.6 Conclusions
In spite of prolonged delay at its start, the project fully achieved or outperformed all
PDOs and results indicators. The project was assessed to be “successful”
1.7 Recommendations
MARD and PPCs of participating provinces should organize a workshop or conference to
wrap up implementation results, discuss findings and share experiences of project
implementation with other projects and the concerned agencies both at home and abroad,
thereby drawing lessons learned for establishment of new projects;
Allocate funds for replication of some promising extension packages after the project
closes. Annually, the GoV and PPCs of participating provinces should allocate more fund
for extension to implement transfer of new/improved technologies in respective province.




                                           81
