 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14698

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 05/28/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P108885                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Vn - Agriculture              Project Costs (US$M):                      75.0                82.9
                         Competitiveness
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                      59.8                59.8
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):                       0.0                 3.1
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                  09/23/2008
                           Canadian International               Closing Date:             12/31/2013           06/30/2014
                           Development Agency
                           (CIDA)
          Sector(s):       General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (32%); Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and
                           Highways (25%); Public administration- Agriculture; fishing and forestry (20%); Irrigation and
                           drainage (12%); Agro-industry; marketing; and trade (11%)
          Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (35%); Export development and competitiveness (25%);
                           Micro; Small and Medium Enterprise support (15%); Rural policies and institutions (15%);
                           Rural markets (10%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Hassan Wally               Robert Mark Lacey       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 4) the project development objective (PDO) was to:
"strengthen the competitiveness of smallholder farmers, with a focus on eight provinces in central Vietnam, in
collaboration with the agribusiness sector."

According to the Financial Agreement (p. 5) the PDO was to:
"strengthen the competitiveness of smallholder farmers in the Project Provinces, through enhancement of agricultural
technology, fostering of farmers’ organizations and their linkages to agri-businesses, and provision of critical public
infrastructure."

This review evaluates the project against the objectives as mentioned in the Financial Agreement factoring in that the
PDO was to be achieved through three main elements to be rated separately as sub-objectives:
(i) enhancement of agricultural technology; (ii) fostering of farmers’ organizations and their linkages to
agri-businesses; and (iii) provision of critical public infrastructure.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 1. Enhancement of Agricultural Technology (Appraisal Cost: US$16.2 million, Actual Cost: US$15.8 million). This
component would support the identification and implementation of applied research and the dissemination of proven
technologies which are cost-efficient, responsive to market demands and incentives, and enhance the environmental
sustainability of increasingly competitive farming practices. It includes three subcomponents:
     1.1. Conducting technology R&D for a competitive agriculture . The subcomponent would support the
     identification and implementation of applied research and the development and extension of technological
     packages that directly respond to the need to improve productivity and quality and to meet market requirements
     in a specific product value chain. It would target smallholder farmers, both within and outside of productive
     partnerships, to improve their product quality, productivity and cost efficiency.
     1.2. Enhancing sustainable farming practices . The subcomponent would finance pilot activities on a communal
     basis to enhance the sustainability of competitive agriculture practices. This would be achieved through the
     development and extension of technological packages that promote the application of good agriculture practices
     (GAP) and the sustainable use and management of land and coastal resources.
     1.3. Monitoring and controlling chemical residues . The subcomponent would strengthen institutional capacity for
     the monitoring and controlling of chemical residues on agricultural produce at three levels: provincial,
     agribusinesses and smallholders. It would provide necessary equipment and technical training to conduct
     appropriate chemical residue tests at each of these levels. The subcomponent would also support the Provincial
     Plant Protection Department in preparing and publishing (with annual updates) a list of illegal and harmful
     chemicals, conducting public awareness raising campaigns, and carrying out farm and market surveillance to
     enforce regulations.
2. Support to Productive Partnerships (Appraisal Cost: US$28.5 million, Actual Cost: US$32.9 million). The
component would demonstrate the feasibility of fostering the competitiveness of smallholder farmers and
agribusinesses by facilitating the establishment, development and operation of private, demand-driven productive
partnerships (through public support provided on the basis of competitive and transparent procedures), improving
private service delivery supporting such partnerships, and enhancing the provincial rural investment climate. The
component includes four subcomponents:
     2.1. Establishing new productive partnerships . The subcomponent would support the establishment of
     productive partnerships between farmers’ organizations (including their members) with private agribusiness
     enterprises. The aim was to develop a long term, voluntary and commercial relationship and implement a detailed
     partnership business and investment plan that would help the participating partners to improve their
     competitiveness in terms of price, cost, productivity, quality and sales volume.
     2.2. Scaling up successful value chain initiatives . This subcomponent would help to roll-out best practices
     developed by existing productive partnerships throughout Vietnam. It would build on and expand successful
     value chain partnerships between farmer groups and agribusinesses, helping them to broaden their activities,
     outreach and impact. Many existing value chain initiatives, mostly launched by bilateral donors or those
     undertaken by lead private sector firms, operated on a small-scale pilot basis only. It would also provide the
     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development with the means to support such a scaling-up and better align
     partnerships with sector reform strategies and initiatives at the national level. Value chains eligible for scaling-up
     would be selected on a country-wide basis (i.e. beyond the confines of the eight provinces associated with the
     project).
     2.3. Implementing an information campaign , networking and match making . The subcomponent would carry out
     an information and communications campaign to introduce the productive partnership program (associated with
     Subcomponent 2.1) and the scaling-up initiative (associated with Subcomponent 2.2). This campaign would
     highlight the mutually enhancing benefits of increased public-private cooperation in order to strengthen the
     competitiveness of the agriculture sector. It would also launch “Calls for Productive Partnership Proposals” and
     transparently communicate the opportunities, as well as the operational procedures, associated with the
     provision of support to productive partnerships. In addition, an active networking and match-making effort would
     be supported throughout project implementation to facilitate the establishment of farmer organizations, to reduce
     the search costs for farmer organizations and agribusinesses in identifying suitable partners, and to assist
     partnerships in finding public and private service providers and other support institutions.
     2.4. Fostering the agricultural investment climate and improving service delivery . The subcomponent would
     support provincial-level, participatory policy dialogues with key provincial stakeholders, especially the private
     sector, through public/private agriculture roundtables. These provincial roundtables would strive to review and
     improve the local agribusiness regulatory environment, institutional conditions and service delivery systems.
3. Provision of Critical Infrastructure (Appraisal Cost: US$24.0 million, Actual Cost: US$27.0 million). This
component would support critical public infrastructure needs supporting the competitiveness of the agricultural sector.
These investments would contribute to increased agricultural productivity and the reduction of marketing costs. It
includes two subcomponents:
     3.1. Supporting locally-identified infrastructure priorities . Under this subcomponent, the project would support
     critical infrastructure needs identified at the district level in collaboration with the communes and the local
     agribusinesses. Infrastructure subprojects would need to demonstrate that they comply with social and
     environmental guidelines and would maximize economic benefits accruing to local farming communities.
     The sub-projects (either the provision of new or rehabilitation of existing infrastructure) would be small-scale and
     would address critical infrastructure bottlenecks in production and marketing. All sub-projects would be subject to
     screening to assess the suitability of the proposed investment.
     3.2. Productive Partnerships . Productive Partnerships associated with Component 2 would be able to apply for
     support under this subcomponent to address critical public infrastructure constraints that have a direct impact on
     their agricultural business activities. Other than the identification and screening process, this subcomponent
     would be implemented following similar procedures to subcomponent 3.1.
4. Support for Project Management and Institutional Strengthening (Appraisal Cost: US$6.3 million, Actual Cost:
US$7.2 million). The component would provide the required resources to: (a) allow for effective management of the
project; and (b) strengthen institutional capacity in key areas, particularly at provincial, district and community level, to
monitor and evaluate project activities and sustain project interventions. It includes two subcomponents.
     4.1. Supporting project management and institutional strengthening . This subcomponent would support all
     activities necessary to ensure that the project is implemented in accordance with the project implementation
     manual. It would support office equipment, vehicles, training, and operating costs to ensure effective coordination
     and good project management at PCU and PPMU levels, including safeguards, financial management and
     audits, reporting and supervision.
     4.2. Monitoring and evaluation . This sub-component would support the establishment and operation of the
     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system under the project. This would include support to the design and
     implementation of the various surveys and other tools for monitoring and evaluating the progress of project
     implementation and the results of the project, including the level of impact on intended beneficiaries.

A level 1 restructuring was approved on October 1, 2012, in order to: "add a pilot extension program on sustainable
rice farming in the Mekong Delta Region (MDR) under Sub-component 1.2 (Enhancing sustainable farming practices)
and make minor modifications to the Results Indicators and the definition of Incremental Operating Costs in the
Financing Agreement" (ICR, p. viii).

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs. At appraisal the total project cost was estimated to be US$75.0 million (PAD, p. 8). At project
completion, the ICR (Annex 1) reports that the total project cost was US$82.9 million. All components increased by
roughly the same percentage amount.

Financing. The IDA Credit of US$59.8 million was fully disbursed. In 2011, the project also received US$3.1 million in
Grant resources from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). This was not anticipated at appraisal.
The Grant was used to finance technical assistance and training activities (including staff and farmer training) to
support project implementation (ICR, p. 6).

Borrower Contribution . At appraisal the Borrower was expected to contribute US$15.2 million, of which US$2.3 million
was Government counterpart funds and US$12.9 million private sector funding (PAD, p. 8). At completion, the ICR
(Annex 1) reports that total Borrower contribution was US$19.6 million of which US$3.5 million was Government
counterpart funding and US$16.2 million was private sector funding
                                       th
Dates. The project closed on June, 30 , 2014, six months beyond the original closing date set at appraisal. The
extension was in order to “provide sufficient time for the completion of project activities planned” (ICR, p. viii). The
project's Mid-Term Review was carried out in March, 2011.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
The project’s objectives are highly relevant to the World Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Vietnam for
the Fiscal Years 2011-2016, which calls, inter alia, for strengthening Vietnam's competitiveness in the regional and
global economy. One of the ways in which this would be achieved would be through promoting the adoption of good
agricultural practices in targeted farming areas and encouraging investments in rural small and medium enterprises to
create additional jobs (CPS p. 18). The objectives were also relevant to the first pillar of the World Bank’s Group
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the Fiscal Years 2007 to 2011, which aimed to improve the business
environment through investments geared towards (i) improving competitiveness by promoting, among other things,
agricultural diversification and increased trade integration; and (ii) provision of a more efficient and reliable
infrastructure that reduces logistics and transaction costs.
At appraisal, objectives were in line with the Government's strategy to develop a pro-poor growth pattern through
promoting market-oriented agriculture and spurring additional investment in the country’s upland and less developed
areas. At completion, they were less relevant, given the shift in the Government's focus towards transforming the
country from a largely agrarian society to an industrialized, modern nation as out lined in the Socio-Economic
Development Strategy (2011-2020). This also concords with the new role of the Government as a facilitator rather
than operator in the agricultural sector, as detailed in the 2013 Agriculture Restructuring Plan. In a further
communication, the project team explained that "the Government's notion of a ‘modern industrial economy’ includes
an emphasis on promoting structural changes within agriculture itself. It envisions a modern agriculture, based upon
innovation and close linkages between farmers and agribusinesses." The team also highlighted that "the project's
objectives and experience provided some of the foundations for the Agricultural Restructuring Plan (ARP), whose
preparation was assisted by the World Bank. The ARP principle about the Government shifting from operator to
facilitator is precisely what occurred under the project and this proved to be a valuable experience for government."
Hence, the Government at the national and provincial levels was currently replicating aspects of the project's models.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The statement of objectives was clear. Design included activities that would be expected to lead to their achievement.
Design relied on a decentralized demand-driven approach rather than the “traditional” top-down research and
extension approach, hence allowing for a better response to technical challenges identified by farmers and other
stakeholders. Design also featured an integrated approach that addressed extension service, production, marketing,
and infrastructure. The first component would contribute to the achievement of the objectives through promoting cost
efficient agricultural technologies that were expected to respond to market demand combined with good agricultural
practices including better monitoring and control of chemical residues in agricultural products. Such actions would be
expected to improve productivity and competitiveness of smallholders. The second component would facilitate the
establishment, development and operation of private, demand-driven productive partnerships. Such partnerships
would be expected to improve price competitiveness. Scaled-up value chain partnerships, and establishment of
farmer organizations would be expected to reduce the search costs for farmers and agribusinesses in building suitable
partnerships, and to assist them in identifying service providers and support institutions. The third component would
promote investments in public infrastructure in order to alleviate critical bottlenecks in the production and marketing of
agriculture products, hence reducing costs and improving quality. Overall, the components are well aligned with the
objectives and the Results Framework provides clear and logical links between project inputs, outputs and expected
outcomes.

Design could have benefitted from focusing on specific crops rather than the broad approach which eventually
resulted in separate islands of success. Design also could have benefitted from including a mechanism for sharing
information and experiences between project stakeholders, and provision of capacity building activities for private
service providers.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
      The objective was to strengthen the competitiveness of smallholder farmers through: (i) enhancement of
agricultural technology; (ii) fostering of farmers’ organizations and their linkages to agri-businesses; and (iii) provision
of critical public infrastructure.

(i) Strengthening competitiveness through enhancement of agricultural technology .(Substantial)

Outputs
   154 technology extension packages were implemented (original appraisal target: 96). These addressed local
     demands which had been identified through roundtable meetings with farmers, technology specialists,
     agribusinesses, and government agencies. 126 extension topics addressed technical aspects of crop cultivation,
     while 20 were for livestock, and 8 for fisheries (ICR, p. 36).
   93, 445 farmers were trained in new farming practices through contract extension compared to an original target
     of 30,000 and a revised target of 50,000.
   In the Mekong delta, 11,326 households were reported to have adopted Good Agricultural Practices for rice
     cultivation on an area of 10,286 ha compared to a target of 5,000 households.
   24,843 clients in the Central Region adopted an improved agriculture technology promoted by the project; as this
     was demand-driven, no target was set.
   Training was provided for about 17,500 farmers on sampling methods and the use of the test kits as well as
     Government regulations on the use of agro-chemicals.
   There were 154 workshops on food safety and the use of agro-chemicals, involving 9,559 local participants.
   Over 91,800 leaflets and 29,520 manuals on the updated lists of banned agro-chemicals were disseminated to
     producers and traders, and hundreds of educational programs were broadcast on local radio and television
     channels.
Outcome
The agricultural technologies promoted by the project led to an increase in crop yields of nearly 17% and a 22%
increase in the value of sales (targets were 10% and 20%, respectively) for farmers who adopted the technologies
compared to a control group. Two-thirds of the trained farmers reported satisfaction with the demonstrated
technologies. Adoption rates of the technologies were about 30%; while more than one-third (59 of 154) were
programmed to be continued or scaled up with the support of local extension networks. The project also contributed to
raising the awareness of producers and the public on food safety, especially with regard to chemical residues on
agricultural products. However, the exact impact is difficult to gauge given the absence of specific indicators that track
agrochemical usage by farmers and reliance of the project on qualitative self-test kits which according to the ICR (p.
38) could potentially provide an incentive for under reporting by farmers. Overall the project laid a good foundation for
future gains in smallholder productivity and competitiveness despite some shortcomings.

(ii) Strengthening competitiveness through fostering farmers’ organizations and their linkages to
agri-businesses.(Modest).
 Outputs
    105 productive partnership were established under the project compared to an appraisal target of 96; after two
      years of implementation, 98 of these remained in operation compared to an appraisal target of 68.

Outcome
Farmers participating in productive partnerships with agribusiness observed an 18% increase in the value of their
sales compared to a control group and the target of 20%. However, the project, with its limited resources, was not
attractive to major agribusiness companies who typically do not to deal directly with farmers, but work through traders
or commissioned agents. These companies also perceived the project as "mostly about farmers and not especially
attractive for their involvement" (ICR, p. 43). Less than half (44%) of the productive partnerships were considered to
have a “very good to an excellent” chance of continuing as a functioning partnership. Moreover, the attempt to support
a wide range of commodities and value chains by the project did not achieve the desired impact and eventually led to
"fewer synergies being achieved among the different components of the project and relatively few synergies in relation
to the same commodities in different locations” (ICR, p. 22). Due to procurement difficulties, resources for some
productive partnerships were used for sourcing inputs rather than planned investments in collective assets. Such
issues contributed to the unsuccessful performance of about one third of the productive partnerships. In a further
communication, the project team highlighted that while less than half the partnerships (44%) had a very good to
excellent chance of continuing as a functional partnership, only 22% are deemed to have little prospect for continuity;
and that many of the larger agribusinesses in Vietnam are state-owned enterprises not at the forefront of innovation.

(iii) Strengthening competitiveness through provision of critical public infrastructure . (Substantial).
Outputs
A total of 186 small-scale rural infrastructure schemes were financed by the project, 51 of which in combination with
the productive partnerships initiatives. In aggregate, the project financed the new construction or upgrading of 271 km
                                                                                                                  2
of rural road, 48 km of canal, 8 power transformer stations with 23.4 km of power transmission line, and 7,300 m of
drying yards

Outcome
According to the ICR (p. 21), upgrading roads led to an average reduction of 31% in post-harvest losses, 20% in
transportation time, and 29% in transportation costs. The ICR notes that estimates of the project’s impact on
transportation time and costs are more reliable than those related to post-harvest losses. This is because the latter
are affected not only by logistics, but also by on-farm practices including harvesting techniques, field to collection
point conveyance, and proper crop drying. Infrastructure investments also generated other benefits for the 95,000
farming households in the project area. However, inadequate road maintenance could undermine project
achievements.

5. Efficiency:
 Economic and Financial Efficiency
ex-ante
 o An indicative economic and financial analysis was carried out at appraisal, given the project’s demand driven
   nature. The analysis draws on the results of the World Bank assisted “Productive Partnerships Support
   Project” (2001-2006) and “Second Rural Productive Partnerships Project” (2007-2012), both in Colombia, and
   highlights the impacts of the GTZ assisted project “Improvement of Coffee Quality and Sustainability of Coffee
   Production in Vietnam”.
 o The analysis provides an overall economic rate or return of 19.5% with a net present Value (NPV) of US$ 20.8
   million at a discount rate of 12%.
 o Unquantified benefits were expected to result from optimizing agricultural inputs at the farm level through training
   and technology transfer and through improved waste water and crop and animal residue management, as well as
   from infrastructure investments.
ex-post
 o The analysis is based on identified and implemented sub-projects. The analysis compares with and without
   project scenarios and outcomes. Incremental net benefits arise from the additional value added derived from the
   technologies and partnerships supported by the project.
 o The analysis estimates the overall ERR for the whole project to be 21%. A sensitivity analysis reveals that an
   increase of 20% in project costs would reduce the ERR to 17%, and a reduction of 20% in all benefits would yield
   an ERR of 16%. The overall financial rate of return (FRR) was estimated to be 23%.
 o The ICR (p. 58) reported some difficulties that faced the estimation of true costs and benefits including: "(i)
    correct concepts and definitions of items for measuring benefits may not have been established and followed in
    the collection and analysis of data by the PPMUs and PCU; (ii) there may have been double counting of benefits
    to sub components, especially in the cases of support for PPs, roads and irrigation works; (iii) the concept of
    identifying costs and benefits for “with and without project” cases may not have been strictly followed, with the
    “before and after project” cases used in some collections; (iv) costs may not have been defined correctly and
    rigorously identified and collected; and (v) economic benefits from higher prices to farmers are probably
    over-stated because they represent more of a transfer from agribusiness to farmers than an increase in value
    added." This casts doubt on the robustness of the economic and financial analysis and on whether a rigorous
    framework and procedures for economic and financial analysis was followed.

Administrative and Institutional Efficiency
The project closed six months late to allow sufficient time for the completion of project activities planned especially in
the Mekong Delta region. Implementation was generally slow during the first two years due to capacity limitations,
particularly in financial management and procurement (see section 11b). There was one case of fraud.

Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      19.5%                                    100%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                       21%                                     100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives was high and design was rated substantial. Efficacy of the first sub-objective was rated
substantial where the project promoted technologies that led to increments in yield and value for small holders.
Efficacy of the second sub-objective was rated modest. Establishing productive partnerships proved to be challenging
and less than half the established partnerships had a “very good or excellent” chance of continuing. Large
agribusiness showed little interest in participating in productive partnerships. Efficacy of the third sub-objective was
rated substantial rural infrastructure investments contributed to transportation cost savings and other benefits to the
rural population. Efficiency was rated modest due to concerns on the robustness of economic and financial analysis.
Overall, the project laid a good foundation for future gains in smallholder productivity and competitiveness despite
some moderate shortcomings.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The sustainability of the project development outcome is dependent on several interconnected factors. First, the
impact of new agricultural technologies is dependent upon adoption rates, and, at 30%, adoption rates have yet to
reach the level where they can have a strong impact on productivity. Adoption of new technologies would also benefit
from a demand driven private extension service. However, the business environment for such providers remains
challenging and in need of supportive policies (ICR, p. 25). In a further communication, the project team explained that 
"more than one-third of the technologies demonstrated under the project were adopted into the advisory plans of the
Government extension service." Second, there are concerns on the sustainability of the productive partnerships and
the lack of engagement with large agribusiness. In a further communication, the project team explained that the
project generally targeted SMEs and that "many of the large agribusiness companies in Vietnam are state-owned
enterprises which are not at the forefront of innovation."  Third, the majority of the project infrastructure investments
were in rural roads and the absence of a clear maintenance mechanism for such roads raises concern. Deterioration
of rural roads due to the lack of proper maintenance could reverse back gains achieved under the project and
potentially discourage new productive partnerships and undermine the sustainability of existing ones. In a further
communication, the project team explained that "O&M was a part of the investment documents when selecting
schemes to finance. After construction was completed, the project provided training on O&M for local communities
and local governments. For small maintenance, local communities are contributing their labor. For road repairs, the
districts or provinces will provide the budget for maintenance."

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate
8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project was prepared following discussions with the Government that identified the need for continued IDA
support to address the challenges confronting the agricultural sector as it adapts to Vietnam’s membership of the
World Trade Organization (since January, 2007) and to growing domestic and international markets (PAD, p. 3).
The project supports the Government’s strategy on market-oriented agricultural development, which is an
important element of its drive to eradicate poverty.
Positive features of Quality at Entry were:
   The project was prepared in less than one year and included a detailed implementation plan in the project
     manual.
   Project design relied on decentralized, demand-driven approaches, utilizing private sector providers, and
     testing the concept of productive partnerships. Design also benefitted from South-South learning with
     representatives from Columbia sharing their experience with productive partnerships.
   Design benefitted from the experience of other World Bank projects in China and Columbia that emphasized
     establishing formal farmer organizations, ensuring competitive partnership selection and financing advisory
     services to help partnerships prepare quality business and investments plans. The development of local
     consulting services that can support both farmer organizations and partnership arrangements was also found
     to be important.
   Several risks were correctly identified at appraisal including, limited implementation capacities at provincial
     level, and elite capture. Relevant mitigation measures were reflected in the design.
There were, however, significant shortcomings:
   The risk of potential weaknesses in the capacities of private agribusinesses and private service providers was
     underestimated.
     Although design relied on a phased implementation approach that started with four provinces with prior
      experience with Bank projects, capacity in these four provinces was over estimated. The decentralized nature
      of the project would have benefitted from the presence of the technical assistance team at an earlier time.
     Establishing the Regional Technical Assistance office was delayed for two years. In a further communication
      the project team explained that this delay was due to "problems associated with government procurement
      procedures."
     There were no activities to strengthen the capacities of private service providers, and there was only limited
      support to agribusiness companies involved in the productive partnerships.
     For a project seeking to demonstrate the benefits and viability of alternative institutional models for service
      delivery and value chain support, there was no effective mechanism to share learning and implementation
      experience among service providers, agribusiness companies, and farmer organizations on one side and
      policy makers on the other (ICR, p. 28).
     The project did not include an agriculture finance component, but instead relied on the expectation that
      synergies would be made with interventions under the parallel Bank-supported Rural Financial Services II
      project. However, synergies proved to be sporadic rather than systematic
     There were weaknesses in M&E design (see section 10a below).

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project benefitted from regular supervision missions where Bank specialists on finance, procurement,
social and environmental safeguards provided timely training and appropriate recommendations. Although
supervision was early in identifying the underlying causes of implementation delays -- especially capacity
constraints at the provincial level which were clearly identified in the initial ISRs-- there were limited resources to
get to the field more often (ICR, p. 28). As implementation improved, supervision became more focused on
insuring the quality of sub-projects and improving the project's M&E system and interpretation of M&E results.
There was a productive relationship with the FAO cooperative program, and the ICR acknowledges the latter’s
contribution to both the project coordination unit and the provincial management units. The Bank team and Bank
management were supportive of restructuring and introducing the pilot rice sustainability work in the Mekong
delta. However, more attention could have been given to engaging with large agribusiness companies in an
attempt to persuade them to establish ties with farmers. Also, supervision should have acted earlier to establish
the Regional Technical Assistance Office soon after effectiveness rather than waiting for two years. M&E
implementation, which suffered from the lack of sufficient technical support, could have received more timely
attention (see section 10b below). Weak financial management capacity on the part of the Borrower necessitated
more intense supervision (see section 11b below).
   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government was supportive at the preparation stage and experts from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development were actively engaged in project design. However, Government support seemed more passive
during the first two years of implementation. This continued until delivery delays and disbursement lags became
more apparent which prompted senior Government officials from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development and the Ministry of Planning and Investment to intervene more actively and address implementation
bottlenecks. After the Mid-Term Review, the Bank and the Government agreed on the proposed rice sustainability
work in the Mekong delta. However, it took nearly eighteen months to gain approval leaving only one year for
implementation, and requiring a six month extension of the closing date to complete the work. Finally, the
provision of counterpart funding was inadequate and untimely (ICR, p. 48).

   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The project was implemented under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development through a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) that oversaw Provincial Project Management Units (PPMUs). The PCU was
responsible for overall project implementation and supervision as well as for procurement and financial
management, and for results monitoring and evaluation. The PPMUs under the guidance of the PCU were
responsible for implementing the project components in their respective provinces. Project design also included a
Regional Technical Assistance Office (RTAO) consisting of one international Chief Technical Advisor and eight
national technical specialists to provide overall technical support to the Central Project Coordination Unit.
According to the ICR (p. 29) the performance of the implementing agencies "was not strong in the early years, yet
improved steadily and especially in the period after restructuring." The early years of implementation were
characterized by slow decision making at the provincial management units which did not receive much support
from the project coordination unit. Also, establishing RTAO took two years to become operational and this
exacerbated implementation delays. The selection of agribusiness companies for productive partnerships was
often done on paper without visiting the company. With the exception of the last year of implementation, the
project suffered from the absence of a mechanism for sharing information and experiences between various
project stakeholders especially at the earlier stages where experience sharing would have been more useful.
Finally, M&E implementation should have been given more attention.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The PAD (Annex 3) includes a detailed Results and Monitoring Framework which includes four main outcome
indicators that were relevant to capture the achievement of the project outcomes. However, the target set for one
indicator, reduction in post-harvest losses (50%) from farmers having improved access to the newly built infrastructure
under the project, was overly ambitious and unachievable, and it was therefore scaled back to 20% at restructuring.
There are also thirteen intermediate outcome/outputs indicators that are geared towards capturing the achievement of
various activities supported by the project. M&E design would have benefitted from the inclusion of an indicator to
measure the increased capacity of targeted farmer organizations given their importance for sustained smallholder
competitiveness.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   M&E implementation was to be carried out by the PCU in coordination with the different PPMUs. M&E activities
benefited from FAO support on data collection and analysis methods as well as the provision of several training
classes to project staff. Also, FAO supported the introduction of a Management Information System (MIS) and several
assessment tools to better analyze and communicate the performance of productive partnerships. However, from
project effectiveness in March 2009, until the end of 2010, no M&E activities were carried out in participating
provinces due to the absence of consultants. M&E data collection improved by the third year and the system was
computerized from the central to provincial levels and M&E indicators were monitored and reported on regular basis
(ICR, p. 80).

According to the ICR (p. 12) the project indicators and outputs were monitored and recorded. However, reporting
tended to focus on disbursement levels and the status of implementation with limited analysis of the results.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Given weaknesses in design and implementation, the utilization of M&E results was constrained in identifying what
contributed to success or difficulties in project areas. Further analysis of M&E results could have potentially revealed
problems, discerning trends and/or potential opportunities.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The Project was assigned an environmental category B (PAD, p. 94). Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Pest
Management (OP 4.09), Indigenous Peoples (OP. 4.10), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) safeguards were
triggered at appraisal.

Environmental safeguards . Initially environmental compliance was overseen by the Bank’s Environmental
Management Specialists who also provided training and assistance to the project coordination unit and the provincial
management units in monitoring environmental compliance. Compliance was later overseen by technical assistance
through the Regional Technical Assistance Office (RTAO), the implementing agencies (Project Coordinating Unit and
Provincial Project Management Units), and local governments. "Minor negative impacts were well mitigated through
application of mitigation measures as indicated in the project environmental and social management framework (ICR,
p. 13)." Civil works funded by the project did not cause any adverse impacts and no complaints were filed from local
people. However, there is no clear statement of compliance with OP 4.01 in the ICR.


Social Safeguards. These include the implementation of the Involuntary Resettlement Frameworks and Ethnic
Minority Development Plans (EMDPs), which were prepared in accordance with the Bank OP 4.12 and OP 4.10.
       o Involuntary resettlement . The first three years of implementation "saw some minor land acquisitions to
          widen rural roads (ICR, p. 13)." According to the ICR (p. 13) the "Bank’s regular supervision reported full
          compliance with Bank’s OP 4.12 in all project provinces throughout the project life."
       o Ethnic Minority Development Plans . The project was guided by an Ethnic Minority Planning Framework
          (EMPF) prepared at appraisal with a view to ensuring that ethnic minorities would receive socioeconomic
          benefits that are culturally appropriate. The ICR (p. 13) reports that ethnic minorities actively participated in
          different project activities, where 13,600 ethnic minority people (7.8% of the total) benefited from training in
          new agricultural technology, 2,100 ethnic minority households (13% of total) benefitted from productive
          partnerships and about 17,000 ethnic minority households (14% of the total) benefited from the upgraded
          rural roads to improve connectivity and transportation of farm products to local markets. According to the
          ICR (p. 13) the "Bank’s regular supervision reported full compliance to Bank’s OP 4.10."

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management . According to the ICR (p. 14) financial management was moderately satisfactory over the
implementation period. However, it suffered from a number of shortcomings including weak capacity, weak contract
management and internal control systems, frequent changes of financial management staff in a number of provinces
and late allocation of counterpart funds. In addition, the approval of annual financial and disbursement plans as well
as finalization processes of supporting documents and payments were slow (ICR, p. 14). The ICR contains no
discussion of internal or external auditing of the project, and it is therefore unknown whether external auditors’
opinions were qualified.

Procurement. According to the ICR (p. 14) procurement was "generally in compliance with the Bank's Guidelines."
However, there were some shortcomings including weak procurement capacity and unfamiliarity with procurement
procedures especially with regards to productive partnerships; and implementation delays due to lengthy bid and
internal approval processes. The ICR (p. 14) reports that there was one case of fraud by a production partnership in
Gia Lai where disbursement equivalent to US$27,000 have been made. A full investigation was carried out by
provincial and district government units. The investigation revealed that half of the disbursements were ineligible as
no actual procurement and delivery of goods to farmers happened even though the farmer group signed receipts.
Three people involved were arrested, required to repay the illegible sums, and sentenced to extended prison terms.
The ICR (p. 14) highlights that this incident and its consequences were widely communicated within project areas to
discourage any similar cases. It is not clear if any of the illegally disbursed money was actually recovered.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None.

d. Other:
None.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR includes eleven lessons and four of these are selected below with some adaptation of language:

    Projects promoting a ‘demand-driven’ approach may give rise to scattered ‘islands’ of activity not able to
     reach a critical scale or have notable impact in any major value chain . The possibility of more transformative
     impacts is increased if technology, partnership and infrastructure interventions are more strategic and
     geographically clustered.
    Facilitating increased private service provision , contract farming, and more multi-dimensional public-private
     collaborative initiatives in agriculture requires a set of ‘soft skills’ which may not be readily available at the
     level of provincial agricultural departments . If applying a decentralized approach and seeking to rely upon
     public systems to facilitate these institutional changes or innovations, then considerable early and sustained
     attention needs to be given to training and technical support. Also, other modalities (i.e. using NGOs; private
     management companies; industry associations) should also be considered.
    Incentives may be weak in relation to smallholder agriculture , where there is little ‘willingness to pay’ for
     stand-alone advisory services—for example , in relation to ‘good agricultural practices’ . Incentives for private
     entities to provide technology demonstration and advisory services may be strong whenever the company has
     something to sell— inputs, equipment—or wants to buy a commodity with distinctive characteristics. In the case
     of smallholders, service providers may need to be specially contracted to provide such services.
    Promoting complex relationships between farmer organizations (FOs) and established agribusiness
     companies is better done in stages . Newly formed groups without any history of collective action will be
     regarded as unattractive partners by companies. For new or weak FOs, to the initial focus should be on
     developing core management skills and effective governance arrangements and undertaking a few basic
     functions. Incremental steps in collective action (i.e. ‘partnerships among farmers’) should precede efforts to
     link them directly with specific downstream buyers, and even then, several steps may be needed to build trust
    and confidence before any significant multiple commitments are made.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is well written. It provides thorough yet concise coverage of project activities. It also reports candidly on most
shortcomings. It includes eleven lessons that reflect the project experience and four of these could apply to other
operations of similar nature. The discussion on the achievement of outcomes relies on evidence and achievements of
project targets. Efficiency includes a relevant economic and financial analysis of project activities.
However, the ICR is lengthy (33 pages of main text) and no discussion is provided on relevance of objectives at
completion. There is no discussion of internal or external project audits.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
