The World Bank                                 1818 H Street N.W.         (202) 477-1234
OR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
MENT ASSOCIATION              U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS
10 OCT 2012                                                                           , 2012
His Excellency Nguyen Vdn Binh
Governor
State Bank of Vietnam
Hanoi, Vietnam
Re:    Vietnam: Agriculture Competitiveness Project
Amendment to the Financing Agreement (Credit 4518-VN)
Excellency:
We refer to the Financing Agreement ("Agreement") dated December 9, 2008 between the
Socialist Republic of Vietnam ("Recipient") and the International Development Association
("Association"), for the Agriculture Competitiveness Project ("Project"). We further refer to a
letter dated September 19, 2012 from Mr. Le Minh Hung, Deputy Governor of State Bank of
Vietnam, on behalf of the Recipient, requesting certain modifications to the Agreement.
We are pleased to inform yot that, after due consideration, the Association concurs with
i e request and to give effect to such rquest agrees to amend the Agreement as set follows:
I.    The opening clause of Part A of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read as
fllows:
"PART A: Enhancement of A ricultural Technologv
Carrying out a program to develop and transfer agricultural technologies in support of
agricultural competitiveness in Project Provinces and in the Mekong Delta Region, consisting of:"
2.     Sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
"(a) the term "incremental operating cost" means the incremental operating costs under the
Project incurred by the Recipient for purposes of Project management, implementation, and
monitoring and evaluation, including office supplies and consumables, utilities, bank charges,
communications, mass media and printing services, vehicle rental, operation, maintenance, and
insurance, office space rental, building and equipment maintenance, technical guidance and
management costs for establishing and operating demonstration models in support of sustainable
rice cultivation in the MDR, including adaptation to climate change, travel, lodging, and
subsistence allowances, and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salary and
ialary supplements of staff of the Reci-ient's civil service (c6ng chrc, vi6n chtrc)."
-1-


﻿3.     A new paragraph is added to the section on 'Definitions' under the Appendix to the
Agreement as follows:
""Mekong Delta Region" or 'MDR" means a sub-region in the south of the Recipient's
territory comprising a total of twelve (12) provinces and one (1) city."
Except as specifically amended herein, all other provisions of the Agreement remain in full
force and effect.
Please confirm your agreerrent with this amendment by countersigning, dating and
returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. Upon receipt by the Association of the
countersigned copy of this letter, this amendment shall become effective as of the date of the
countersignature.
Sincerely Yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByI                AOc
Victoria Kwakwa
Country Director for Vietnam
Eat Asia and Pacific Region
CONFIRMED:
SOCIALIST REP LIC OF VIETNAM
By:
Name:         i_      ___t_
Title:                                S-2
D)ate: CCo kt               , DUL
- 2-


