c    iz: /  { #)g   ( s             y,L1
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12478-GM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
MARCH 17, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALEN"T S
Currency unit = Dalasi (D)
US$1.0 = 9.1 Dalasis
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANR           Agriculture and Natural Resource Management Project (US-AID'
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS           Environmental Information System
ERP           Economic Recovery Program
GBA           Greater Banjal Area
GEAP          Gambia Environmental Action Plan
GIS           Geographic Infonnation Systems
GTZ           Gesellschaft fuir Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance)
MDI           Management Developmert Institute
MHSW          Ministry of Health and Social Welfare
MLGL          Ministry for Local Government and Lands
MNR           Ministry of Natural Resources
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
MTIE          Ministry of Trade, Industry and Employment
NEA           National Environment Agency
NEAP          National Environrnental Action Plan
NEMA          National Environmental Management Act
NEMC          National Environment Management Council
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PFP           Policy Framework Paper
PSD           Program for Sustained Development
TAC           Technical Advisory Committee
TANGO         The Association of Non-Governmental Organizations
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Ms. Grace Yabrudy (Urban Financial
Analyst, Task Manager) and Messrs. Yves Prevost (Environmental Specialist, Consultant) and Albert Greve
(Coordinator, Multi-Donor Secretariat) conducted in October 1993. The lead advisor is Ms. Cynthia Cook (AFIDR),
the AFTES advisor is Mr. Franqois Falloux, and the peer reviewers are Mrs. Catherine Cruveillier-Cassagne and Mr.
Ian Hill. The managing director is Ms. Katherine Marshall and the managing division chief is Mr. Peter Watson.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGERMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
1. INTRODUCTION AND MACRO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND                                                         ...I
II. THE  ENVIRONMENTAL  SETTING  ...................................................3
A. Background ......................................................3
B.  Environmental Resources ......................................................4
C.  The Main Environmental Issues ......................................................                    6
D. Institutions .....................................................7
E.  The Major Constraints on Reversing Enviromnental Degradation .........1........ 11
F.  The National Environmental Action Plan ............................................... 13
G. IDA  Assistance Strategy for the- Environment .......................................... 15
H. Other Donor Assistance and Programs ................................................... 15
11. THE PROGRAM                                       ................................... 17
A. Rationale and Objectives .....................................................                            17
B.  Program  Design ..................................................... 17
C.  Program  Description .....................................................                               18
IV.  DETAILED  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION .                                ....................................................     20
A. Summary Project Description .....................................................                         20
B.  Detailed Description ..................................................... 22
C.  Project Implementation .....................................................                            34
D. Financing Plan .....................................................                                     37
E. Auditing and Accounting .......................                      .............................. 38
F.  Procurement ..................................................... 38
G.  Disbursements ............                    .............................. .              ......... 39
V.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION  AND  RISKS .                                . ................................................... 42
A. Benefits and Justification .......................                   .............................. 42
B.  Risks ..................................................... 42
C. Impact on Women ..................................................... 42
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION  ................................. 43
ANNEXES:   1. Organization Chart of National Environment Agency (NEA)
2. Summary of the Gambia Environment Action Plan (GEAP)
3. Project Cost Table by Year
4. Project Implementation Schedule
5. Matrix of Performance Indicators
6. Timning and Composition of Supervision Missions
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by rcipients only in the perfom ce of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodzation.



REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
CAPACITY UJILDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
S1TAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Suary
Borrower:           Republic of The Gambia
Beneficiarv:        National Environment Agency (NEA)
Credit Amount:      SDR 1.9 (US$2.6 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Co-financinf:       Government of The Gambia:US$0.60 million
GTZ: US$1.30 million
Project
Objectives:         The proiect's primary objective would be to establish the capacity within
the National Environment Agency (NEA) and other relevant agencies to
develop and guide an effective system for environmental planning and
management in The Gambia and to ensure that environmental concerns
are fully integrated and reflected in the social and economic development
piomcess in The Gambia. Consequently, the project would focus on the
development of the institutional infrastructure and on strengthening of the
capacity of associated human resources required to ensure that this
objective is achieved and that the policy and program objectives of the
GEAP are realized.
Project
Description:        The project consists of six major components: (a) Institutional Support
for Coordination of GEAP Implementation, to support the NEA to
develop its operational capacity by financing equipment, training and
targeted technical assistance. The development of management and
technical skills in NEA and the provision of associated training in
enviromnental management for staff of sector agencies and private sector
operators, through short-term practical attachments or workshops; (b)
GEAP monitoring and policy development, to reorient the existing
sectoral policies and develop new policies where necessary, in accordance
with the overall environmental policies elaborated in the GEAP; (c)
Environmental education and public awareness, to support the
development of a strategy to increase public awareness of environmental
issues and support for electronic and print media campaigns, using
iii



existing government and NGO skills and capacities; (d) Monitoring of
enviromnenial quality, to support the development of a system to collect
information and monitor environmental quality against agreed threshold
levels; (e) Environmental information management, to finance the
development and implementation of an env.onmental information
strategy according to a distributed model including (i) the design of a
common information architecture to establish coherence and
compatibility; (ii) the establishment of basic information infrastructures;
(iii) the maintenance of key data sets; and (iv) analytical capabilities; and
(f) Contingency planning and disaster preparedness, to develop a disaster
awareness and contingency planning system.
Benefits:           The project would support Govermnent's strategy for the sustainable use
of the environment, as set out in the GEAP, and would assist with the
implementation of important aspects of the GEAP. The Gambia is one of
the first group of countries to have completed a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP) and is one in which Government ownership of the
process is very strong. Government commitment to integrating
environmental issues to the development planning process is reflected in
the decision to create this new agency and place it under the auspices of
the Office of the President. IDA has strongly supported countries'
efforts to prepare and implement NEAPs; The Gambia's NEAP process
can serve as a model to other African countries involved in similar
planning processes. The project actions will ensure that the proper
institutional, legislative and functional frameworks are in place to address
the critical environmental issues facing The Gambia and that activities are
implemented to reverse the trend of environmental degradation.
Rislcs:             Risks are associated with the effectiveness of the enviromnental
management system, in particular the ability to achieve effective inter-
sectoral coordination of actions. However, the Government has
expressed its conunitment to this integration of environment into the
sectoral planning process through the GEAP and through the creation of
the NEA. Also, the capacity building focus of this project is designed to
assist not only the staff of NEA, but also within other sectoral ministries
whose work requires attention to environmental considerations. There
are risks related to the general lack of knowledge of environmental issues
and limited capacity to handle technical enviromnental issues. The
project directly addresses these shortcomings through its focus on
technical and managerial training of management and staff of the NEA
and through the provision of technical consultancies to transfer
competence.
Program of
Targeted Interventions: not applicable
iv



Estimated Program Costs
(US$'000)
ProjectComponent                 Local    ForeignI  Total   % finl
1. Institutional Support for    757.5      462.5   1,220.0      38
Coordination of GEAP
Implementation             -_ _
2. GEAP Monitoring and Policy    89.8      205.2    295.0       70
Development                                    I
3. Environmental Education      158.7      246.3    405.0       61
4. Monitoring of Environmental  131.3      383.8    515.0       75
Quality and Enforcentent
5. Environmental Information     65.0      275.0    340.0       81
Management                     ___
6. Contingency Planning and
Disaster Preparedness          23.9      101.1     125.0      81
PPF Ref ing                 I 45.0      255.0     300.0       85
Parallel financing (GTZ)      271.1    1,028.1   1,300.0      79
TOTAL COSTS                  1,542.3  1 2,957.7    4,500.0 T   66
Program Financing Plan
(US$'000)
_          _       Local         Foreign          Total        %of Total
|Govermnent          600.0             0.0           600.0           13
IDA                  671.2          1,928.8        2,600.0          58
GTZ                 271.1          1,028.9        1,300.0           29
Total Cost         1,542.3         2,957.7        4,500.0    _
Estimated Disbursements
(US$'000)
FY and Semester    Disbursement    Cumulative
FY95 1st semester   367.84           367.84
2nd semester    366.34           734.17
FY96 Ist semester   408.50          1,142.67
2nd semester    406.04          1,548.71
FY97 1st semester   363.50          1,912.21
2nd semester    413.57          2,325.78
FY98 1st semester   274.22          2,600.00
v



REPUBLIC OF THE CxAMBIA
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION AND MACRO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
1.1       The Gambia, a very small country located on the west coast of Africa, surrounded on
three sides by Senegal, occupies a narrow strip of land bordering the river Gambia. It covers
10,700 km2 and has a population of about I million growing at 4. 1% per annum. It has an
undeveloped human capital base with an illiteracy rate of 73%, primary school enrollment of
61%, and infant mortality rate of 136 per 1000 (1990).
1.2       The Econonmy. The Gambia is an open economy with very limited natural resources
and one of the least developed African countries, with a per capita income estimated at US$360
in 1991. The mainstay of economic activity has traditionally been the production and export of
groundnuts, even though in recent years some progress has been made in diversifying production
and exports toward tourism and trade services. Agriculture, which accounted for about 20% of
real GDP in 1991/92, employs the bulk of the population; industry contributed 12% of value-
added, with the rest accourted by services (trade 16%, hotels and restaurants 4%, and public
administration 10%).
1.3       Macro-economic background. The first 10 years of independence saw broadly stable
macro-economic conditions, with modest rates of economic growth. But from 1970 until 1985-
86, the economic and financial petformance of The Gainbia deteriorated markedly as a result of
external shocks and inappropriate domestic policies. During the same period, the involvement of
the public sector in the economy increased sharply through the creation of several public
enterprises, particularly in the industrial and trade sectors. As a consequence of expansion in
current Government expenditure, the growth of output in the productive sectors of the economy
remained low. At the same time, price distortions and regulated markets for agricultural and
industrial products discouraged the development of viable small-scale activities in the secondary
sector and hampered agricultural development as well.
1.4      In response to the deepening crisis compounded by the marked decline in external
aid, The Gambian Government adopted in mid-1985 a comprehensive macro-economic
stabilization and adjustment program: the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) covering the 1985-
1990 period. Under the ERP, The Gambia's economic and financial performance improved
dramatically. Four factors contributed to this success: (a) firm determination by the Government
to implement the program; (b) close monitoring by, and frank dialogue with IDA and the Fund;
(c) large influx of external aid; and (d) improved weather conditions. Building on the success of
the ERP, the Govermnent launched the Program for Sustained Development (PSD) in 1990,
which is still in effect. The PSD aims at reinforcing policy reforms and at promoting private
sector growth by diversifying the economy.
I



1.5       The economic strategy pursued under ERP and PSD has been primarily aimed at
restoring economic growth, lowering domestic and external imbalances, reducing the public
sector's role in the economy and promoting the development of the private sector. Between 1985
and 1990, real GDP growth averaged 3.5%, reflecting continued growth in the private sector,
particularly in tourism and construrtion. Real GDP growth in 1991-92 was estimated at 4% due
to quick recovery in trade and tourism, despite a slow recovery in agricultural production The
inflation rate was cut to 4% by the end of 1992 from about 70% in 1985. These results are
impressive, but they remain fragile and need to be sustained.
1.6       One of the main accomplishments of the reform program was the restructuring of the
public eaterprise sector. Thus, the efficiency of enterprises and resource allocation has
dramatically improved. Some five wholly-owned and 10 mixed companies have been privatized
and performance contracts have been signed for the six public enterprises to ensure their
managerial autonomy including tariff setting and meeting efficiency targets. The Government has
recently signed a 10-year management contract for The Gambia Utilities Company (GUC).
1.7       The way has been cleared, in the financial sector, to increase private sector
competition by phasing out the public sector's involvement accomplished with GCDB's
privatizaiion in June 1992. The Government has revised legislation to enhance the Central
Bank's supervisory role. Monetary policy is now implemented through open-market operations
and credit ceilings have been abolished. Moreover, market forces are allowed to play a
significanit role in determining key interest rates, on the basis of bi-weekly tender systems for
Treasury bills.
1.8       The Gambia "graduated" from Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) in
November 1991. Subsequently, at the Government's request, a sixth year Project Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) wa.s approved in June 1992 (covering the 1992/93-1994-95 period) as a
framework for continued monitoring of macro-economic performance and adjustment reforms.
No IMF resources are attached to this PFP. The IMF is preparing a seventh PFP with the
Govenmment.
1.9       Population and Urbanization. The present population of The Gambia is estimated to
be approximately 1 million and is estimated to reach 1.2 million by the end of this century. The
Gambia has, in the past 15 years, experienced very rapid and uncontrolled urban growth without
a commensurate level of investment in infrastructure and urban services. In 1960, only 12% of
the total population lived in urt.n areas. Based on the recent 1993 census, about 40% of the
total population lived in urban areas. This considerable change in the living conditions of the
people has been aggravated by severe environmental problems resulting from the interplay of two
major factors. Successive years of drought and inadequate rainfall, and rapid population growth
leading to undue pressure on the limited capacity of traditional agriculture and pastoral
production has had a dramatic effect on the urban concentration. Although rainfall has improved
during the last two to three years, it is not likely to reverse the trend of ongoing migration from
most rural areas towards cities and particularly the Greater Banjul Area (GBA).
1.10      The largest urban cepter is the GBA with the two main municipalities of Kanifing
Municipal Council (about 229,000 inhabitants) and Banjul City Council (about 43,000
inhabitants). The largest share of urban growth is concentrated in the GBA which accounted for
15% of the 1982 total population and two-thirds of the total urban population. In 1992, it
2



represented 30% of the total population and three-quarters of the total urban population. The
GBA is growing at 8 % per annum, while the total population is growing at about 4.1% per
annuni. The population dynamic make the demographic data even more alarming. Current
estimates show that more than 50% of the population is less than 15 years old, In five to 10
years when this young population reaches the child bearing age, a sharp increase in population
should be expected.
1.11      The growth rate of the secondary cities is also very steady. In some cases, like
Brikama and Farafenni, they have witnessed an even greater growth than the GBA. One
hundred twenty-one thousand inhabitants live in 1  urban centers (one urban center
accommodates about 5,000 inhabitants). The urban growth has led to rapid expansion of squatter
communities in the periphery of the capital city and tihe larger secondary towns. A large number
of poor households live without access to clean drinking water and sanitation services.
1.12      Persistent declining economic prospects in many of The Gambia's rural areas explain
this substantial migration to urban centers from all parts of the country. The problem of rural-
urhan drift has put considerable pressure on the urban environment and has given rise to
increasing health problems. The absence of physical planning and proper land-use resulted in
over: rowded and unhealthy living conditions for the majority of the urban population,
particularly the urban poor, and a severe lack of basic infrastructure, especially disposal of solid
waste ard sewerage system management.
II. THE ENVIRONMENTAL SETTING
A.    Background
2.1       The Gambia's concern with environmental issues dates back to 1977, when the
President issued The Banjul Declaration in favor of the protection of the country's biodiversity.
In a subsequent attempt to develop an institutional framework for addressing environmental
issues, the Government created the Environment Unit in 1983. This was followed in 1987, by
the enactment of the National Environment Management Act (NEMA), which provided
legislative measures for environmental protection, and later by the creation of the Ministry of
Natural Resources (MNR). Despite these institutional initiatives, environmental problems
became more severe due to lack of adequate action on the ground. It was against this background
of intensifying environmental degradation that the Gambia Environmental Action Plan (GEAP)
was prepared. Under the auspices of the National Enviromnental Management Council (NEMC),
the GEAP was prepared with broad cross-sectoral involvement of Government agencies and with
high-level Govermnent support. The GEAP was approved by Cabinet in July 1992, and
presented to the donor community at a Roundtable in Banjul in January 1993. The Government
rapidly began implementing the recommendations of the GEAP, beginning with the creation
(effective July 1993) of a new Na   -Al Environment Agency (NEA) under the Office of the
President, into which the old Environment Unit was folded.
3



2.2       The GEAP was formulated in the context of The Gambia's structural adjustment
program supported by both the World Bank (SAL 1I) -.-d IMF (ESAF). IDA provided support
both through the Sahelian Department and the servic.s of the Multi-Donor Secretariat for
National Envirounmental Action Plans (NEAP) to assist the Government in finalizing the GEAP
and for attracting donor support for its implementation. M:,sions in April and September 1992,
and in January and March 1993, provided assistance to the Government for completion of the
GEAP and discussed ways in which implementation could be supported. Given the importance
of having sound institutional strtctures for environmental planning and management and in
recognition of the Government's decisive and rapid action in creating the new environment
agency as an autonomous unit under the Office of the President, it was agreed that IDA funding
could be focused, in coordination with other donors, on providing institutional support to the
NEA to enable it to fulfill its important coordinating and regulatory roles as defined in the
GEAP.
B.    Environmental Resources
2.3       Topography. The Gambia lies within the Sudano-Sahelian zone and follows the
banks of the Gambia River. With a total land area of 10,700 m2, the country is 470 kan long,
following the course of the Gambia River and in places is only 24 km wide.
2.4       Agricultural Resources. Agriculture currently accounts for some 25% of GDP and
provides employment for about two-thirds of the labor force. It is estimated that the area
harvested averages about 160,000 ha, or about 40% of the country's suitable agricultural land.
Nearly all of it is rain-fed and only about 1,000 ha are pump-irrigated, although rice is also
grown on some additional 10-20,000 ha of uplands, mangrove swamps and in freshwater tidal
areas. The predominant production system is traditional slash and burn cultivation, requiring a
substantial area for fallow and recovery. The increasing population pressure is gradually
reducing the fallow period, leading to more continuous cropping and soil degradation. The direct
economic and other consequences of this environmental degradation are being increasingly felt.
However, agricultural production so far shows no clear trend, with crop output continuing to be
primarily a function of weather.
2.5       The principal crops grown are groundnuts, millet, sorghum, swamp rice, maize and
upland rice. Minor crops are cotton (2,000 ha) and vegetables (800 ha). Productivity is
generally low due to the low fertility of most of the agricultura' soils. While irrigated rice
development is constrained by natural factors (salinity of the Gambia River due to tidal intrusion
of sea water), vegetable growing has greatly increased in the last several years.
2.6       The family unit is the main source of labor supply. Although reliable statistics are
not available, the use of animal traction (oxen, donkeys and horses) has been reported to be
increasing and, at present, it is estimated that over 95% of the coarse grain and groundnut area is
prepared using animal traction. Land tenure and allocation practices are traditional.
2.7       Livestock Resources. Livestock is also important, with about 15-20% of the rural
population owning cattle. Almost all farm compounds keep sheep, goats and poultry. The
national herd has recently been estimated to be as follows: 280,000 head of cattle, 120,000
sheep, 180,000 goats, 14,300 horses and 36,500 donkeys. The pr sent stocking rate of about 70
4



head of cattle per square kilometer is considerably higher than the generally accepted carrying
capacity of 50 head per square kilometer in the Sahel. When sheep and goats are included, the
density is much higher, and the pressure on the grazing lands is a major factor in land
degradation. All livestock are kept under traditional husbandry systems and productivity is
generally low. To date, no significant modem poultry producing units exist, largely because of
the cost of imported animal feed and problems in obtaining supplies of day-old chicks.
2.8        Forest Rescurces. The forests of The Gambia are comprised of Sudanian woodland,
wooded savanna and bush fallow, mangroves and isolated relics of closed forest in the moister
western region. Most of the forests have been modified by fire, grazing, exploitation for timber
and fuel and for cultivation. Drought has also taken its toll. Forest cover is decreasing steadily
due to the destruction caused by bush fires and traditional slash and burn farming practices.
Today only 175,000 ha, or 17%, of the total land area can be considered as wooded. The quality
of the stand and the canopy cover have dettriorated as a consequence of logging, land clearing,
firewood collection and burning. The rate of firewood consumption exceeds the annual growth
increment of the remaining national forest, and the country has to import 95% of its construction
timber requirements. Massive deforestation has resulted in soil erosion, excessive ruz"off and the
extinction of animal species. Hunting is no longer an important source of protein for the rural
population. Formal and informal forest products include honey, fencing, mats, rhun palm
(Borassus aethiopum) splits and fruits. Other indirect and non-timber forest products are
livestock forage, nuts, oils, medicines and roofing materials. The sole formal forest product
export is palm kernel nuts from Elaeis guineensis.
2.9        Wildlife and Biodiversity. The level and diversity of faunal biodiversity has been
dramatically reduced in The Gambia with the rapid disappearance of natural forests and other
habitat. Currently, thirteen of the sixty-seven known mammal species have become extinct, and
few representatives of the remaining other species exist now. With the increased population
pressure and the increasing demands on land resources, the pressure on most of the remaining
large mammals is increasing, particularly as damage to crops by warthogs, baboons, vervets,
patas monkeys and hippopotami becomes of increasing consequenc.. Two large manunals whose
habitat was in the mangrove areas, creeks and islets and were thought in the 1970's to be
potentially capable of conservation-the aquatic antelope (Sitatunga) and the African manatee--are
now endangered and near extinction. On the other hand, The Gambia remains rich in avian
species, though the increasing loss of habitat poses a serious threat to current levels.
2.10      Fishery Resources. Government efforts to encourage the fishing industry along the
river and The Gambia's 57 km of coast have attracted development assistance. The Government
strategy is to increase returns from the sector and to ensure that increased value added from the
industry is kept in-country. Currently, the fisheries industry in The Gambia has eight factories,
15 Garnbia-registered vessels and, in 1987, 3,626 registered fishermen, of which 1,512 were
foreign nationals.
2.11       Water Resources. The River Gambia is the major source of surface water. Intensive
agriculture and the destruction of natural riverain wetlands has caused increased erosion and
siltation in the upper reaches. The reduced surface flows have resulted in greatly increased salt
water intrusion from the Atlantic. Ground water is the main source of multi-purpose water
supply in the country. The most recent surveys (1990) of the water supply situation in the
country indicate that 48% of the population obtain their supplies from open wells; 31% from
5



piped water, and 21 % from wells fitted with hand-pumps. There are two main aquifer systems in
the country: the Shallow Sand Aquifer that occurs between 10-20 m below the ground (except in
North Bank Division, where it is 30-40 m below ground) and a Deep Sandstone Aquifer,
confined between a 200-300m thick sequence of marts and clays. The reduced rainfall affects the
recharge of ground water negatively, resulting in significant declines in the ground water table
and increased danger of salt water intrusion from the coastal areas.
C.    The Main Enviromnmetal Issues
2.12      The main environmnental issues in The Gambia center around: (a) natural resource
depletion; (b) coastal degradation; (c) expanding populations and rapid urbanization; and (d)
dwindling sources of energy. These issues have been identified in the GEAP and the proposed
project will help ensure a sound institutional structure for environmental planning and
management to address these issues.
2.13      Natural Resource Depletion. High population growth and declines in rainfall are the
two major catalysts in the depletion of natural resources in The Gambia. With high rates of rural
to urban migration, the non-agricultural population now accounts for almost 40% of the
population. Resultant demands for agricultural and natural resources products, especially
livestock products, grains and forest products, are growing. Although the trend may reverse in
the future, the length of the rainy season has been declining, with the onset shifting from mid-
June to mid-July. It has been estimated that the total annual rainfall in The Gambia has
decreased 14% since the 1950's.
2.14      Traditional resource management practices in The Gambia have not been able to
adapt effectively to these trends, with increasing pressure on land-based resources evident. As a
consequence, fallow periods on arable sites have been shortened, in some places from over a
decade to only one year. Evidence from the Government's annua' agricultural survey suggests
that this trend is continuing.
2.15      Decreasing fallow periods have led to loss of soil fertility and increased erosion.
The extension of agricultural lands competes with the need for range lands, and the consequent
degradation of increasingly limited range land resources is evidenced by the disappearance of
perennial pasture species. This is exacerbated by the uncontrolled burning of range lands by
farmers and herders, reducing the long-tenn forage availability and undermining forest
regeneration.
2.16      The increasing demand for fuelwood and forestry products has led to a decline in the
forest cover and significant biodiversity loss. Approximately 70% of the areas classified as
forest in The Gambia consist of tree and shrub savanna, with less than 10% tree cover. Using
1988 landsat imagery, it was determined that the area of closed forest had decreased by 80%
since 1972. This loss of habitat has contributed to the significant loss in biodiversity, including
the extinction of a number of major animal specials fornerly indigenous to the country.
2.17      Coastal Degradadon. Land clearing and tourism development on the seashore,
removal of beach sand for construction, pollution and rising sea levels are responsible for the
degradation of the country's coastal ecosystems, the basis of the tourism industry. The densely
6



populated urban areas as well as the port and tourism sites are located in the coastal zone. The
development which has taken place has accelerated beachi erosion, which in some places is
estimated to exceed two meters per year. Part of the problem is caused by removal of beach sand
in an uncontrolled manner by building contractors. Coastal pollution is evident, with
contribution from the fish processing sector, litter from the tourist industry, sewage outfall, and
oil spills from ships.
2.18      Rapid and Unplanned Urbanization. Rapid urbanization has resulted in a crowded
situation in the Greater B3anjul Area. Over 75% of this population lives in sprawling and
unplanned suburbs. Land in these areas continues to be allocated by village heads under
customary tenure laws, without any accompanying infrastructure development or provision of
other basic services. The open communal farming areas that once separated the villages are
rapidly disappearing. The resulting overcrowding, lack of sanitation and clean water supplies
and inadequate waste management have resulted in a sharp increase in communicable and water
and vector borne diseases. The Physical Development Plan for the GBA has not been adequately
implemented, as evidenced by the rapid urban sprawl and resulting environmental problems.
There has been no collective conunitment to the master plan concept and no driving or organizing
force behind it. This is compounded by the lack of basic infrastructure services, in particular
roads and drainage which have not kept up with the patterns of urban sprawl.
2.19      Energy Sources. Energy consumption in The Gambia is characterized by reliance on
natural resource-based sources of energy. Over 60% of total energy consumption is in the form
of firewood, with the balance sourced from imported petroleum-based products. The fuelwood is
used for domestic cooking and heating purposes. The petroleum products (estimated at 64,000
tons annually in 1989) is used for transport fuels and for diesel electric power generation.
2.20      Deforestation at the present rates makes the present rate of fuelwood consumption
unsustainable. The Government has taken steps, starting with a 1980 ban on charcoal
production, to try to alleviate pressure on the forests. There has been some limited success with
tree plantations, improved cook stoves and groundnut shell briquetting. There are efforts to
introduce butane as a cooking fuel in urban areas, following the regional approach supported by
the EEC through the "Comite international de Lutte contre la Secheresse dans le Sahel."
Currently, butane is imported from Dakar and transported overland, with a resulting high price
of 10-12 Dalasi per kilogram. In the long run, the substitution of butane for fuelwood as a
domestic fuel could potentially save up to 80,000 tons of fuelwood annually through the
importation of 7,000 tons of butane, once costs are reduced.
2.21      Renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, biomass, hydroelectric and
geothermal offer alternatives to reliance on fuelwood. The question remains the financial
feasibility of adopting new alternative technologies. The issue is under study as part of the Bank-
supported Sahel Traditional Energy Sources Study.
D.    Institutions
2.22      The National Environment Agency. The NEA was created in July 1993, to ensure
planning, management and protection of the environment in The Gambia and to promote the
integration of environmental concerns into the national planning and development processes. At
7



present. the NEA draws its authority from the NEMC, created in the NEMA of 1987. This act
is currently under review. The revised version will empower NEA to fulfill its mandate,
particularly its regulatory and monitoring role. During negotiations, agreement was reached with
Government for all revisions to NEMA to be shared with IDA for review and comment (para.
6.5 (a)). NEA is the key institution providing a focus for regulatory control and coordination of
intersectoral work on environment and natural resources issues. Its specific functions are:
(a) to promote, coordinate and support the formulation of national environmental policies
and to guide the execution of those policies in coordination and cooperation with the
other agencies of Govermnent, as well as to propose to the competent authorities any
general or particular measures destined to facilitate the execution of Government's
environmental policies;
(b) to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the GEAP and to review and revise, as necessary, its
goals and strategies; to ensure full public awareness of the GEAP framework and
objectives and to carry out monitoring and review of all development activities to ensure
full compliance with environmental regulatory requirements in The Gambia;
(c) to collaborate with those public bodies responsible for planning and for finance, to review
the environmental content of the public investment program in order to ensure that
environmental concerns are fully integrated;
(d) to provide continued coordination and liaison with the technical ministries, local
governments, local communities, private sector entities and non-governmental
organizations to ensure adherence to national environmental policies;
(e) to establish and define guidelines and procedures for Envirorgnental Imact Assessments
(EIA) and to monitor and ensure compliance, in cooperation with the technical ministries
and project promoters, with the EIA findings;
(f) to advise concemed ministries, agencies and otherwise authorized entities on
enforcement of environmental legislation, regulations and standards as well as arbitration
of environment-related conflicts;
(g) to monitor adherence to international treaties and agreements on the environment;
(h) to coordinate and promote the use of environmental information systems and resultant
data;
(i) to enhance national capacity for environmental protection through the promotion and
coordination of environmental and natural resource management-related training, non-
formal and formal environmental education and the enhancement of public awareness
concerning enviromnent and natural resource protection issues; and
(j) to advise and support Government initiatives on collaboration with non-governmental
organization and cotiununity organizations in the area of natural resource management
and environmental protection.
8



2.23       NEA also plays the key roles of secretariat for the NEMC and chairman of the
Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), the two intersectoral coordination mechanisms responsible
for policy formulation and enviromnental oversight in The Gambia. The President of The Gambia
presides over the NEMC, indicating the high priority assigned to environmental planning and
management by Government. The Agency itself is under the Office of the President, which provides
oversight and budgetary support, while the NEMC oversees its technical activities. NEA is headed
by an Executive Director and has a total of twenty-four staff including eight professionals (see
organization chart, Annex 1). The professional staff includes the Executive Director, a Division
Director, a Registrar of Pesticides, and five programn officers.
2.24      There are other public institutions whose responsibilities cover natural resource
management and environmental issues. NEA will have to work closely with these agencies,
which are implementing agencies, in order to ensure both inter-sectoral coordination and
planning as well as facilitating problem solving and policy development. The other agencies are
described below.
2.25      Ministry of Natural Resources. The MNR, formerly Ministry of Natural Resources
and the Environment, has four technical departments: Forestry, Water Resources, Fisheries and
Wildlife. It is supported in its policy analysis and planning functions by the Planning Unit. The
MNR has partial responsibility for natural resources management and for technical work related
to natural resource management and for policy formulation in that domain.
2.26      The Planning Unit was created to address a broad spectrum of natural resource
management issues, including appropriate natural resource utiiization, sectoral integration to
achieve multiple-use management and land prod ictivity. The principal responsibilities of this
unit include medium term planning and policy formulation and monitoring and evaluation. This
unit has three professional staff. Assistance to the Planning Unit is included in the Agriculture
and Natural Resources Support Project (ANR), financed by USAID.
2.27      The Department of Forestry is responsible for the management of The Gambia's
forests, including the establishmer.t of forest parks, the collection of fees from licenses, permits,
royalties and the sale of confiscated illegal forest products. The head office is in Banjul, with
representation in all divisions of the country. In 1955, 66 forest parks were created totaling
34,029 hectares or 3 % of the total area of the country. A total of 34 of these parks were set
aside for protection (22,239 hectares).
2.28      The Wildlife Conservation Act of 1977 provides for the conservation and
management of wildlife, for the establishment of national parks and local sanctuaries and for the
creation of the Department of Wildlife Conservation. The Department of Wildlife Conservation
is charged with the protection of national parks and reserves. It has 26 employees, but with little
capacity to supervise, control and inplement programs in the wildlife refuges under its
responsibility.
9



2.29      The Department of Water Resources is empowered under the Water Resources Act
of 1979 to carry out the development, exploitation and conservation of water resources in The
Gambia. The Act provides for a National Water Resources Council and a technical committee.
Since the Act was adopted, it has remained unenforced and is inadequate, given the rapid
increases in human and livestock populations, contamination of water bodies and the need for
new industries.
2.30      The Fisheries Department is responsible for managing the aquatic resources of the
country under the Fisheries Act of 1991, which provides for the management of fisheries and the
development of the fishing industry.
2.31      The Ministry of Agriculture. The MOA is the principal government agency involved
in agriculturai development. The Department of Planning has overall responsibility for planning
in the agriculturai sector and provides policy advice to the Minister. The Department of
Agricultural Research and the Department of Agricultural Services are responsible for providing
agricultural research and extension services, respectively. The Soil and Water Management Unit
falls under the Department of Agricultural Services and is responsible for promoting improved
soil and water management practices. The Department of Livestock Services is responsible for
control of notifiable diseases, the inspection of animal products and for livestock extension. It is
responsible for the introduction of innovations in range lands management.
2.32      The Ministryfor Local Government and Lands. The MLGL is responsible for
providing the institutional superstructure for local government administration. These include
districts, which are governed by commissioners, and divisions, which are run through "area
councils". The Department of Community Development within the MLGL has over 60 field
agents working with rural communities to stimulate self-help actions. The Department is also
charged with assisting in the formation of village development committees. The Department of
Physical Planning and Housing is responsible for regulating and guiding the rational utilization of
land resources.
2.33       7he Ministry of Health and Soaal Welfare. The MHSW is responsible for managing
the Government's subvention to the Cleansing Service for the two local government authorities in
greater Banjul. The MHSW provides the bulk of solid waste disposal costs in addition to
technical and managerial assistance through the assigmnent of a senior memnber of its staff to head
the Cleansing Service. Again, this Ministry is severely limited in its operational capacity by lack
of adequate human and financial resources. This inhibits it from adequately carrying out solid
waste management responsibilities in the GBA.
2.34       The Ministry of Trade, Industry and Employment. The MTIE is responsible for the
development of renewable energy resources, and for the promotion and regulation of industrial
development. The MTIE's Energy Division will act as the secretariat of the National Energy
Council, soon to be established to advise Cabinet on energy matters. It is specifically responsible
for petroleum exploration and for monitoring the imnportation, utilization, distribution and pricing
of petroleum products. It is also responsible for formulating energy policy and legislation. The
Gambia Renewable Energy Center is the technical arm of the MTIE, responsible for research,
development and utilization of renewable energy resources, as well as for the coordination of all
national renewable energy development activities. It lacks funding and adequate human resources
to carry out meaningful research work and the promotion of alternative renewable energy
10



resources. The Human Resources Development Division and the Industrial Unit of the MTIE
also have important environment-related responsibilities. The coordination of population-related
activities has been moved from MTIE to .he Population Commission under the Office of the
President.
2.35      Non-Governmental Organizations. NGOs work predominately in the areas of
agriculture, food aid provision or in community services such as education, literacy and maternal
care and child health. There are about 100 NGOs in The Gambia, of which 50 are registered
with The Association of Non-Governmental Organizations, an umbrella promotional group.
More recently, NGOs have become involved in seed production and distribution as well as tree
planting, and about 11 of the registered NGOs have environmental activities. These include
Action Aid, which is in the process of establishing a reforestation program, and World Wide
Fund for Nature, which is working in Kiang West National Park. The present role and potential
for expansion, and for assuming a greater responsibility on the part of the major international and
Gambian NGOs in environmental management, is essential to expanding development efforts in
The Gambia. Under present austerity measures, the Government cannot expand services by
significantly increasing public employees, and the capacity to work closely at the field level
severely limits effective implementation of development programs. There is a need, therefore, to
foster more cooperation between the Government and NGOs to develop a working partnership
for development and for the implementation of environmental activities.
2.36      As illustrated by the multiple and frequently overlapping programs mentioned above,
there is a real need for coordination. The proposed project would support the NEA as it puts in
place appropriate structures, systems and mechanisms for environmental management.
E.    The Major Constraints on Reversing Environmental Degradation
2.37      Most of the direct causes of environmental degradation have been noted in the
previous sections. There are commonly complex inter-relationships between these direct causes,
which are often the result of equally complex linkages between underlying factors and forces.
The main underlying causes for the depletion of the natural resource base and increasing
environmental problems in urban areas are: (a) rapid population growth; (b) widespread rural
and urban poverty; and (c) a lack of institutional structures for adequate and effective
environmental planning and management.
2.38      Population. The needs of The Gambia's rapidly expanding population have been
met largely through the unsustainable exploitation of the natural resources. This is reflected in
shortened fallow periods, encroachment of agricultural lands onto pastures and continued loss of
forest cover. The problems of rapid population growth are exacerbated by the uncontrolled and
rapid drift to the major urban area of the country around Banjul: Over one third of the
population lives in this area, taxing the resiliency of the environment as traditional systems of
resource use and land allocation break down. The rapid increase in urban populations and the
lack of corresponding movement in infrastructure and basic services development has led to
pollution and degradation of the urban environment. At the risk of being repetitive, the linkage
between an unchecked population growth and environmental degradation cannot be stressed
sufficiently. In fact, if the current growth rates continue, environmental policies will do no more
than simnply slow current trends.
11



2.39      Poverty. With an income estimated at US$360 in 1991, The Gambia is one of the
world's poorest countries. Poverty, both urban and rural, is a strong impediment to adopting
new practices which have a less damaging effect on the natural resource base. Poor farmers and
urban dwellers do not have the time, the financial resources, or the motivation to invest in new
techniques and technologies for conservation, since their daily efforts are focused upon obtaining
the minimum necessary requirements for survival of self and fatnily. In the situation of skewed
income distribution, with only a small percentage at the top having the time and/or the resources
necessary to adopt innovations, the poor will remain generally unresponsive to educational
messages concerning natural resources management and conservation and will continue to exploit
the available resources in an unsustainable manner. Unless the basic needs of the populations are
met through effective income-generation programs which precede or accompany efforts to
introduce conservation practices, these will fail.
2.40      Inadequate Institutional Frameworkfor Environmental Planning. The lack of
adequate institutional structures to deal with environmental planning and management and
promotion of public awareness and understanding of environmental issues is a factor which
exacerbates the underlying causes of environmental degradation. Lack of effective institutional
structures reflects a lack of understanding on the part of decision makers of the importance of
environmental issues in overall development planning. With the adoption of the GEAP, this
critical issue is being addressed and actions taken. With the creation of the NEA, the
Government has begun to address the important institutional question, which will enable it to
focus cross-sectorally on the issues and problems described in this and the preceding sections.
The challenge for the Government will be to expand the NEA's commitment to the environment
so that it becomes normal behavior in all ministries and agencies and in the population at large.
The current project will support the Government's efforts to plan and manage environmental
issues in a sustainable manner as part of the overall development program for the country.
2.41      The problems mentioned above are being addressed by the following current
exercises: (a) a comprehensive national population policy has been prepared with a view to
reducing the current population growth rate and bringing about a sustainable equilibrium between
human and natural resources demands and consumption. An IDA-supported Health and
Population Project (FY96) will finance specific interventions within this overall program (eg.
family planning, AIDS control, gender-focused activities); (b) the rural issues are being explored
and dealt with by the USAID ANR (see para. 2.55); and (c) improvements in urban poverty are
the objectives of two projects: Public Works and Capacity Building Project, approved by the
Board in December 1993, and Urban Environment Project (an FY95 project). The proposed
project addresses the inadequate institutional framework for environmental management.
12



F.    The National Environmental Action Plan
2.42      The NEAP for The Gambia is called the GEAP. The GEAP was approved by
Cabinet in July 1992, after a long process of planning and preparation, and marks the
Government's conunitment to face its environmental problemns and try to find solutions to them.
The (iEAP is divided into two parts: (a) the GEAP itself, which provides an overview of the
environmental situation, a discussion of the critical issues and proposed strategies for solving
those problems; and (b) a compilation of projects forming a Technical Cooperation Program,
indicating suggested project priorities to address the issues identified in the GEAP proper (see
Annex 2 for GEAP summary).
2.43      Seven policy objectives were formulated as underlying assumptions for the GEAP
framework. These objectives are: (a) to conserve and promote the rational use of natural
resources; (b) to protect and improve the health and quality of life of Gambians through sound
environmental management; (c) to restore and preserve the equilibrium of the ecological
processes; (d) to strengthen the institutional framework for environmental management and
coordination; (e) to increase public environmental awareness and understanding and foster greater
community participation in environmental management; (f) to ensure the integration of
environmental considerations into the development process; and (g) to accelerate the adoption of
alternate sources of renewable energy.
2.44      In order to achieve the overall goal of sustainable and effective enviromnental
planning and management, the GEAP policy objectives have been translated into a program
which focuses both on the overall institutional framework and other broad issues such as
environmental information management and environmental education and awareness as well as on
the priority sectoral concerns of natural resources, the urban enviromnent and renewable energy
sources. The three major sectoral programs are: (a) natural resource management; (b)
environmental health; and (c) energy. These programs were designed to address the major issues
identified during the GEAP preparation. They are inter-linked, since they have a number of
common issues which, when addressed, will have a cross-cutting effect.
2.45      Natural Resource Management Program. This program will: (a) assist and
encourage producers to adopt improved land and natural resource management practices; (b)
foster proper management of coastal and freshwater resources; (c) develop Government
partnerships with non-governmental organizations for natural resource management; (d) collect,
analyze and use data for natural resource management planning; and (e) develop local area
integrated management plans.
2.46      Environmental Health Program. This program will: (a) improve waste management
in urban areas; (b) control pollution related to hazardous chemicals and industry and (c) increase
community involvement in controlling adverse environmental factors.
2.47      Energy Program. This program will (a) introduce new and renewable sources of
energy as fuelwood substitutes; and (b) increase the amount of cultured fuelwood available.
13



2.48      Cross-Sectoral Programs. The GEAP also identifies the need for several cross-
sectoral program initiatives which focus on: (a) management of environmental information; (b)
public education and awareness of environmental issues; and (c) environmental institutional and
legislative framework development. These three areas are critical if environmental issues are to
be addressed in a meaningful way in The Gambia. They will ensure that the foundation for
successful environmental planning and management, as well as for ensuring coordination of
enviromnental activities and their integration into the overall development planning framework, is
put into place. They will also provide for a clear definition of institutional roles and
responsibilities so that environmental planning can be facilitated and have the desired impact.
2.49      The GEAP and On-Going Environmenta Programs and Projects. The GEAP
recognizes that there are currently a number of environmental or environmnent-related project
initiatives underway in The Gambia and that one of its objectives is to support and strengthen and
to build onto those initiatives. Areas in which actions are already underway include: (a)
livestock and range management; (b) soil and water management; (c) forestry and wildlife
conservation; (d) fisheries management; and (e) urban management and development.
hmplementation of the GEAP objectives and strategies will be through strengthening these
initiatives, as well as developing new ones which directly address the critical issues identified
during the GEAP preparation process. As these projects and activities are reviewed, attention
will also be given to further defining a number of issues critical to achieving sound
environmental planning but for which more studies are required. These include issues such as:
(a) coastal zone management; (b) decentralization and devolution of authori.ty to local
communities for natural resources management; (c) land use planning and land tomnre; (d) the
effects of economic policy on the environment; and (e) the economic impacts of environmental
degradation and of conservation efforts.
2.50      The Institutional and Legal Frameworkfor GEAP Implemention. One important
repercussion of the GEAP preparation process was the recognition at the highest levels of
government that rapid and concerted attention should be paid to ensuring that there is a sound
institutional framework for environmental planning and management and an accompanying and
empowering legal framework. Moving rapidly beyond the weakly defined recommendations in
the GEAP text, the Govermnent subsequently decided to create an autonomous environmental
agency. This has been done by upgrading the Environment Unit, under the MNR, into the NEA
under the Office of the President. This recognizes the need for an institution that can: (a)
effectively coordinate and monitor the implementation of the GEAP; (b) provide support for
environmental planning, policy formulation and management across sectoral lines and in
cooperation with technical agencies and ministries; (c) facilitate the integration of environmental
considerations into the national development process; (d) monitor the enforcement of
environmental regulations; and (e) work on a broad cross-sectoral basis with public and private
institutions to promote environmental awareness. The NEA will act as secretariat to the NEMC,
which will be chaired by the President.
2.51      The Govermnent is also conducting a general review of the laws relating to
environment to identify the changes required to put in place comprehensive legislation that will
facilitate environmental planning and management. This legal review and formulation of
14



environmental legislation and an appropriate environmental regulatory code will facilitate inter-
agency coordination and will empower the NEA as the key player, thereby facilitating its cross-
sectoral coordinating role (para. 2.22).
G.    IDA Assistance Strategy for the Environment
2.52      Lessons from Previous Bank Group Operations. IDA's assistance strategy for
environmental matters in The Gambia is based on a continuing dialogue with Govermnent and on
lessons from previous operations in The Gambia, as well as in other countries in the region
where NEAPs have been prepared. Although there has been no Bank Group lending in The
Gambia specifically for environmental operations, much of the prior IDA lending for sectoral
operations (agriculture, urban infrastructure) has had a direct impact on the environment.
Experience with other lending operations and other Bank Group support for the NEAP process
indicates the need to develop strong institutional and legal frameworks for environmental
planning in order to guide any subsequent policy formulation and project development activities.
This also provides the focal point for donor coordination for environmental activities and ensures
better programs for environmental training and capacity building within a comprehensive
framework.
2.53      Policies and Priorities. In light of this experience and the framework provided by
the GEAP, IDA's assistance strategy aims to ensure that environmental considerations are fully
integrated into The Gambia's overall macro-economic and development policy, its sectoral
strategies and specific development initiatives. This will be facilitated in The Gambia, given the
broad Government ownership of the GEAP and the expressed desire to have the proper
environmental policies and institutional structures. The difficulty will be to achieve broad,
grassroots comiitment to environmental improvement, in both the public and private sectors.
IDA aims to assist The Gambia to put into place the proper structures for environmental
planning, management and overall coordination through support for the new NEA and for
developing local capacity for environmental planning and management. IDA assistance will
ensure that the new agency is properly structured and empowered by appropriate legislation,
which clarifies the role of the agency and its relations with the sectoral ministries and
departments, as well as with donors, the private sector and NGOs. This is in line with the Bank
Group's overall strategy for future assistance to The Gambia, which will focus largely on
institutional capacity development. IDA will also support sector programs identified in the
GEAP, such as urban infrastructure, sanitation and urban management, as well as issues related
to natural resource management and renewable energy resources.
H.    Other Donor Assistance and Programs
2.54      There are two major bilateral donors involved in funding environmental activities in
The Gambia: Germany (GTZ) and the United States of America (USAID). Both of these donors
have on-going programs related to natural resource management, environmental planning and
forestry management issues. They are both planning to provide support for the new NEA, in
coordination with IDA assistance. IDA's support has been structured in coordination with the
project preparation efforts of GTZ and USAID to ensure a complementary and comprehensive
package of long-term support for the agency.
15



2.55      USAgencyfor International Development (USAID). USAID has recently (August
1992) approved a new project to support initiatives in natural resources management, The
Agriculture and Natural Resource Management Project (ANR). This US$22.5 million, five-year
project will provide: (a) a US$10 million cash transfer for foreign exchange payments in
exchange for policy reform in the natural resources sector; and (b) US$12.5 million in project
assistance for grants to NGOs for conmmunity-level natural resource interventions, technical
assistance for institutional support and natural resources planning, training for Gambians in
natural resource management, land tenure issues, and support for the Peace Corps volunteers
working in the natural resources field. USAID will also provide funding under this project to
support environmental education efforts-integrating environmental studies into the education
curriculum--to be coordinated by NEA.
2.56      Deutsche Gesellschaftfdir Technische Zusammenarbeit (GIZ). GTZ funded a
National Forest Inventory in 1980 which led to the production of a National Forest Management
Plan in 1983. In 1985, the Gambia-Gennan Forest Project embarked on intensive natural forest
management of three forest parks, covering about 1,500 ha. Currently, the thrust of the
management activities are fire protection and deadwood utilization. To involve the rural
population in the management of their forest resources, the project has introduced a community-
based forest management program which started as a pilot scheme in 1991.
2.57      Afnican Development Bank (AfDB). The AfDB will provide support for a major
study on coastal land management, with a particular attention to the problems of coastal erosion.
AfDB financing will be utilized for a feasibility study and for engineering works aimed at
mitigating coastal erosion in the GBA. This program may also receive technical support from the
Government of the Netherlands.
2.58      United Nations Development Program (UNDP). The Gambia has been chosen as one
of five African countries to benefit from Capacity 21 funds. UNDP will make $800,000
available to the Government of The Gambia under this program. Use of funds is not yet
fmalized, but could be utilized for: (a) the development of a comprehensive program of natural
resource accounting and environmental economics; (b) a study for decentralization of GEAP
implementation; (c) miscellaneous funding which will be made available to help other sectoral
agencies respond to environmental issues for which they have no resources and (d) for review of
the Technical Cooperation Program.
2.59         Donor Coordination. Subsequent to the January 1993 sectoral consultations on
environment and natural resources in The Gambia, GTZ and IDA agreed with the Government to
support and finance jointly this program for environmental management, with a focus on the
institutional and human resources capacity development of the new NEA (see 3.9 for details of
the GTZ-funded components). Other donors mentioned above (USAID, AfDB and UNDP) are
all implementing or planning activities which will support priority objectives of the GEAP. As
an overall planning document guiding the efforts of individual donors, it serves as a framework
for ensuring donor coordination within the priorities established during the GEAP process.
16



III. T1HE PROGRAM
A.    Rationale and Objectives
3.1       Rationale. The program would support economic and social development while
maintaining the integrity of environmental processes and ensuring long-term sustainability of
natural resource use. This would be pursued through support for the implementation of the
GEAP, most notably the effective establishment of the recently created NEA. The program is
based on agreements with Government on the priorities to be attached to the various functions of
the NEA. It would represent the first stage in the implementation of the Bank's strategy for
providing environmnental assistance to The Gambia. The program being supported by this
proposed project will directly benefit the sector-specific interventions being financed by IDA and
other donors (paras. 2.55 - 2.59) through the establishment of standards and guidelines, the
collection and dissemination of information and institutional support and guidance, all within the
framework of the GEAP.
3.2       Objectives. The program's primary objective is to establish the capacity within the
NEA to develop and ensure the coordination of an effective system for environmental planning
and management in The Gambia so that environmental concerns are fully integrated and reflected
in the social and economic development process in The Gambia. Consequently, the program
would focus on the development of the institutional infrastructure and on strengthening of the
capacity of the human resources required to meet this objective and to realize the policy and
program objectives of the GEAP.
B.    Program Design
3.3       Proposed strategy. As a technical assistance program, the main focus would be on
institutional capacity development, particularly to help set up the NEA. The project would
support the programmatic objectives of the GEAP and emphasize environmental management
mechanisms and processes rather than prescribe specific environmental actions. Since the long-
term success of enviromnental planning initiatives in The Gambia will be contingent upon the
development of adequate human resources in NEA and other associated agencies, the program
would aim to bolster local talents and skills in order to reduce gradually the country's
dependence on extensive technical assistance. To this end, the program would support a new
approach that relies on stronger local management supplemented by short- and medium-term
targeted consultancies.
3.4       Strategyfor technical assistance and training. Technical assistance and training
would aim to build capabilities of local staff in NEA and its collaborating agencies, in those
skills in which Gambian capacity is lacking or deficient, in particular the technical and
managerial skills required for successful project implementation. Accordingly, all technical
assistance will consist of focused short term consultancies. Similarly, training will consist
mainly of short-term, out-of-country practical attachments, on-the-job, in-country instruction or
short-term technical workshops. This arrangement wouid ensure continuous technical guidance
and gradual capacity development without the drawbacks of sustained presence of expatriate
advisors.
17



3.5       Intersectoral linkages. The inter-sectoral nature of environmental management
necessitates the involvement of many agencies in planning, policy development and
implementation, data collection, monitoring, problem-solving and enforcement. Because the
NEA is not an implementing agency, it must focus on inter-agency coordination and inter-
sectoral lirnkages rather than direct control. Furthermore, NEA should use cxisting capabilities in
other agencies, rather than attempt to create its own capabilities. As a consequence, the program
would help NEA develop working relations and cooperative links with technical and sectoral
ministries involved in national development so that they integrate environmental issues in their
own planning aid operations and work together on issues which overlap their sectors of
responsibility. Similarly, NEA would need to work closely with NGOs and commnunity
organizations that are involved in environmental matters.
3.6       The program would give priority to initiatintg and consolidating core regulatory and
coordination functions, letting other facets of environmental management arise without explicitly
promoting them, simply as a repercussion of the implementation of a process or mechanism. For
example, the EIA will indirectly generate substantial coordination and advisory work for NEA.
As deveiopment actors see that EIA procedures are rigorously implemented and cannot be
politically circurnvented, they will then systematically consult NEA during the design phase to
avoid having to modify proposals after they are formulated.
C.    Program Description
3.7       Overall Program and expected outputs. The IDA project would be part of a multi-
donor program of support for the establishment and operations of the NEA that includes two
main thrusts: (a) the establishment of environmental management processes; and (b) institutional
development and capacity building. The expected ouiputs at project completion would consist of:
l.    Establishment of environmental management processes
- legislation revised or amended to integrate environmental concerns;
-  an effective and tested Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process including the
implementation of mitigation measures;
-  the capacity to assess and identify trends and changes in environmental quality;
-  the capacity to monitor and respond to reported violations of the enviromnental code;
-  the alignment of sectoral policies throughout Government in accordance with
principles promoted in the GEAP;
-  the capacity to monitor and report on C-EAP implementation;
-  plans and capacity to respond to unexpected environmental crises.
ll.   Institutional development and capacity building
-  an operational environmental agency that has close working relations with other
development actors concemed with environmental matters;
-  capacity within government agencies to handle environmental issues;
-  greater awareness of environmental matters throughout the general public;
-  the possibility for the public to locate and access environmental information;
-  broad diffusion of major developments in environmental matters in The Gambia;
18



much greater availability and use of environmental information in support of
environmental management.
3.8       Program components. The proposed program would initially cover a three-year
period. It would consist of 10 major components, 6 of which would be funded by IDA (further
details on activities, costs, implementation issues and work programs for each of the IDA
components may be found in Section IV of this document); the other four components would be
funded by the GTZ.
Establisnment of environmental management processes
a) Legislative reform. The review and revision of existing legislation, and the
formulation of new legislation as required, to develop a comprehensive and coherent
environmental regulatory code (GTZ);
b) ElAs. The development and implementation of EIA guidelines and procedures,
including review and performance monitoring mechanisms, for all public (PIP) and
private sector projects above a pre-determined level of funding (GTZ);
c) Monitoring of environmental quality. The development of a system for the collection
of information to monitor environmental quality, and the establishment of and
inspectorate to conduct on-site observations of violations and follow-up on
appropriate measures (IDA);
d) GEAP monitoring and policy development. The coordination and monitoring of
GEAP implementation, including reorientation of existing sectoral policies in
accordance with the overall environmental policies elaborated in the GEAP, and
reporting to higher authorities on GEAP implementation (IDA); and
e) Contingency planning. The development of a disaster preparedness and contingency
planning system (IDA).
11.   Institutional development and capacity building
a) Institutional support to GEAP. Support to NEA to develop its operational capacity,
including equipment, training and targeted technical assistance. The development of
management and technical skills in NEA and the provision of associated training in
environmental management for staff of sectoral agencies and private sector operators,
through short-term practical attachments or workshops (IDA);
b) Environmenal education and public awareness. The development of a strategy to
increase public awareness of environmental issues and support for electronic and
print media campaigns, using existing government and NGO skills and capacities
(IDA);
c) Establishment of a Documentation Center. The establislunent of: (i) a shared
database of information relevant to environmental concerns; and (ii) an
environmental library (GTZ);
19



d) Publication of a newsletter. Regular production of newsletter informing the national
and international community of progress made on the GEAP (GTZ); and
e) Environmental information management. Development and implementation of an
environmental information strategy according to a distributed model, including: i)
the design of a common information architecture, to establish coherence and
compatibility; ii) the establishment of basic information infrastructures; iii) the
maintenance of key data sets; and iv) analytical capabilities (IDA).
3.9       Specifically, the GTZ project will finance the following components (refer to para.
3.8): (Ia) development and implementation of environmental legislation and legal reforms; (Ib)
development of procedures, guidelines and operational systems for  LIAs; (Ilc) establishment of a
documentation center; and (Ild) support for dissemination of environmental information in the
form of a newsletter. The project will rely upon short termn consultancies to help develop the
capacity to carry out environmental assessments and implement the necessary legal reforms. The
IDA project would finance the requirements for institutional support and capacity building not
included in the GTZ grant or the USAID project. Because legislative reform and the
establishment of an effective environmental assessment process are essential for the success of the
IDA project, signature of the grant agreement with GTZ by Government will be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 6.4(a)). Furthermore, negotiation discussions included Government
agreement on the implementation of EIA procedures acceptable to IDA, no later than eighteen
months after credit effectiveness (para 6.5 (c)).
3.10      Programfinancingplan. The overall cost of the program would be US$4.50
million, of which 13% would be Government contribution. IDA funding would represent 58%
of total costs, while GTZ funding would represent 29%.
Financing Plan
(US$'000)
Local          Foreign          Total         % of Total
Govermnent           600.0              0.0           600.0            13
IDA                  671.2          1,928.8         2,600.0            58
GTZ                  271.1          1,028.9          1,300.0           29
i Total Cost         1,542.3         2,957.7         4,500.0
IV. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Summary Project Desciption
4.1       As part of the global program described in Section III, the proposed IDA credit
would fund the following six components:
20



1)  Institutional support to GEAP
2) GEAP monitoring and policy development
3)   Environmental education and public awareness
4)   Monitoring of environmental quality
5)   Environmental information management
C    Contingency planning.
4.2            Project Costs.  Project cost is estimated at US$3.2 million equivalent (about
D29, 120 million) net of taxes and duties. A summary of cost estimates is presented below
(detailed cost table appears in Annex Three). Cost estimates are based on IDA's estimations and
other reports documenting component costs. Project costs are expressed in February 1994
prices. Since this is a technical assistance project, there are no provisions for physical or price
contingencies (all equipment and vehicles will be procured in the first six months of the project)
and consultant cost estimates include allowances for travel and subsistence. Prices are free of
taxes and duties.
Proiect Cost Summary (net of taxes and duties)
(US$'OO0)
USS                                  Dalasi i
Project Component          J    Local      Foreign      Total         Local  J   Foreign       Total         % For.
1. Insiaitional Support for      757.5    462.5         1,220.0     6,893.3      4,208.8    11,102.0         38
Coordination 'f GEAP
Implementation  -
2. GEAP Monitoring and            89.8    205.2          295.0        817.2      1,867.3     2,684.5          70
Policy
Development
3. Environmental Education       158.7    246.3          405.0      1.444.6      2,240.9     3.685.5         61
4. Monitoring of Envir. Quality   131.3    383.3         515.0      1.194.4      3,492.1     4,686.5          75
5. Environmental Information      65.0    275.0          340.0        591.5      2,502.5      3,094.0         81
Management                                                                  _
6. Contingency Planning and       23.9      101.1        125.0        217.5       920.0       1,137.5         81
Disaster Prevaredness
7. PPF Refiancing                 45.0     255.0         300.0        409.5      2,320.5     2,730.0          85
TOTAL COSTS                   1,271.2   1,928.8      3,200.0       i,567.9     17,522.1    29,120.0        60
21



B. Detailed Description
1.    Institutional Support for the Coordination of GEAP Implementation (base cost:
US$1,220,000)
4.3       Introduction. The successful implementation of the GEAP will depend on a fully
functional NEA. Because NEA was only recently created and is still untried, it must quickly
develop its management capacity in order to become fully operational. To this end, NEA would
determine the structure and procedures required for its mandated functions, organize itself
internally, finalize staffing requirements and job descriptions, prepare a human resources
development plan and implement it. Moreover, NEA would need to fit in specific units such as
the Pesticides Laboratory, the Inspectorate, the Resource Center and the LDocumentation Center,
as well as specific tasks such as guidance of the environmental information system.
4.4       Since NEA's main role is the coordination and monitoring of GEAP programs rather
than their actual implementation, it will necessarily rely on the capabilities of numerous other
government agencies, as well as those of correspondents in the private sector or the NGO
community. Thus, capacity for environmental management and planning would also need to be
developed in these institutions through training of selected staff.
4.5       Objectives and expected results. The project component's outputs would include:
a) a management information system (MIS) to monitor Agency performance and
efficiency in terms of the use of staff, funds and equipment;
b) staff within NEA with the skills required to fulfill Agency functions;
c) staff in other institutions that can operate as NEA correspondents; and
d) equipment required by NEA for its operations.
4.6       Activities. The project would support the following activities:
In year 1: (July 1994-June 1995)
-  training of NEA's staff in management, budgeting and project administration,
-  training of NEA staff in computer literacy,
-  development of NEA's business (operational) procedures, including yearly
activity planning,
- establishment of a Management Information System (MIS),
-  equipment is ordered, delivered and installed.
In year 2: (July 1995-June 1996)
-  review and update operational procedures,
-  review use of MIS,
- organize short-term training and workshops fo. telected sv'ff from key
institutions and correspondents on environmental management issues and
techniques.
22



In year 3: (July 1996-June 1997)
- review and update business procedures and MIS,
- organize short-term training and workshops for selected staff from key
institutions and correspondents in environmental management issues and
techniques.
4.7       Costs. The IDA credit would fmance: (a) 1  months of international and 14 months
of national short and medium-term technical assistance on organizational and operational issues,
including the establishment of an MIS and the organization of training on environmental
management; (b) an additional five months of technical assistance for needs to be determined
during the life of the project; (c) 30 months of training for NEA staff and selected staff from key
sectoral institutions and regional authorities; (d) the acquisition of information processing,
communications and office equipment, as well as one vehicle and a generator; (e) incremental
operating expenses (communications, fuel and maintenance); and (f) regular audits.
Comnonent 1: Institutional Support for coordination of GEAP imlelemenatbon
(US$'000)
CATE*ORY                         1994        1995      1996     1997   TOTAL
International consultants          70        90         90       0          250
National consultants               15        25         20      10          70
Training                           25        50         50       25         150
Equipmentlvehicles                 100        0          0       0          100
Audits                             10        15         15      10          50
Incremental Operating Expenses     97       198        203      102         600
TOTAL                             317       378        378      147        1220
4.8       Implementation. The main implementation issues to be resolved would be: (a)
completion of recruitment of minimum required staff by NEA for project implementation; (b)
availability of staff from NEA and other institutions for training; and c) availability of adequate
training capabilities in-country or in the sub-region.
4.9       Work program. With the help of an international management consultant (two
months in first year), NEA's administrator would establish business procedures and develop a
Management Information System (MIS) and accounting system, taking into account the Program
Budgeting System introduced by USAID/The Gambia's ANR project. The international
consultant would also train NEA staff in the use of the MIS/Accounting system. The consultant
would return for one month in each of the second and third years, to evaluate and recommend
improvements to the business procedures in light of experience gained, and modify the
MIS/Accounting system accordingly.
4.10      NEA's senior management would initiate efforts to build agency staff into a cohesive
team, with the assistance of an international expert (1 month in first year), inclur1ing the
organization of a team building workshop. The consultant would return for twi weeks in each of
the second and third year of the project to evaluate NEA team cohesiveness and effectiveness,
make recommendations to NEA management and conduct yearly team building workshops.
23



4.11      NEA's Director of Networks would organize training of NEA staff in project
management, verbal and written communuications skills, administration (budgeting, accounting
and office management), as well as computer literacy. Training would either be in-country,
through the Management Development Institute (MDI) or locally employed consultants, or out-
of-country (total 10 months over the three-year period of the project).
4.12      NEA's Director of Networks would supervise the development and implementation
of training programs on environmental issues and environmental management for staff within
NEA and selected staff from other institutions or correspondents. Training material would be
prepared by the Director of Networks, with the assistance of an international expert in
envhonmental management (three months in first year) working in collaboration with national
consultants (four months in first year) and staff from MDI. Training itself would be provided
through MDI, either by its staff or locally employed consultants (eight months), in the form of
short-term training sessions or workshops. At least one training workshop per year would target
environmental desk officers, and selected NGO representatives, and/or correspondents in line
agencies within Government, and another would target decision makers. The international
consultant would return for one month in each of the second and third year to evaluate
effectiveness of training delivered and suggest improvements in the curriculum or training
format. Additional out-of-country training on specific environmental issues would be provided in
the form of short-term practical attachments for NEA staff (total 10 months) and staff from
institutions other than NEA (total 10 months).
2.    GEAP Monitoring and Policy Development (base costs: US$295,000)
4.13      Introduction. One of NEA's major functions is to coordinate and guide the
implementation of the GEAP. On the one hand, NEA is to assist line ministries in their efforts
to revise and reorient their policies, in conformity with GEAP recommendations, and in light of
their impact upon the environment and use of natural resources. On the other hand, NEA is to
provide the Secretariat for the NEMC and the chair for the TAC, the two intersectoral
coordination mechanisms created to monitor and coordinate GEAP implementation. As part of
these functions, NEA must prepare yearly a "State of the Environment Report", have it discussed
and agreed on by TAC and submitted to NEMC for discussion and acceptance.
4.14      Objectives and expected results. The project component's outputs would include:
(a) capacity within NEA to monitor, evaluate and report on GEAP implementation;
and
(b) assistance from NEA to relevant sectoral agencies to align their policies with
GEAP principles.
4.15      Activities. The project would support the following activities by NEA:
In year 1: (July 1994-June 1995)
- identify policies in need of revision,
- establish a format for reporting on progress in GEAP implementation,
- adopt procedures for project implementation monitoring and evaluation,
24



- produce State of the Environment Report for 1994, discuss it with TAC and
submit it to NEMC.
In year 2: (July 1995-June 1996)
-  coordinate revision/formulation of sectoral policies,
- organize workshops,
- commission studies,
- produce State of the Environtnent Report for 1995, discuss it with TAC and
submit it to NEMC.
In year 3: (July 1996-June 1997)
- update GEAP,
- continue to coordinate revision/formulation of sectoral policies,
- organize additional workshops,
- commission additional studies,
-  produce State of the Environment Report for 1996, discuss it with TAC and
submit it to NEMC.
4.16       Costs. The IDA credit would finance: (a) four months of international and 15
months of national short and medium-term technical assistance, to determine (i) what policies
need to be revised, and (ii) a system and a format for reporting on the state of the environment
and on progress achieved in meeting GEAP objectives; (b) four months of out-of-country training
for NEA staff in policy analysis and programn monitoring; (c) workshops, organized by NEA and
relevant public agencies, to develop new policies in consultation with public agencies, non-
governmental organizations and private sector institutions; and (d) studies on major issues.
Component 2: GEAP Monitoring and PoUicv DeveloDment
(US$'000)
CATEGORY                          1994      1995      1996      1997      TOTAL
International Consultants           20      30            20       10          80
National Consultants                 0      30            30       15          75
Training                             5      10             5        0           20
Workshops                            3      7             7         3          20
Studies                             15      35           35        15          100
TOTAL                               43      112           97       43          295
4.17       Implementation. Prior to project effectiveness, NEA would have established
working groups for key sectors affected by environmental concerns.
4.18       Work program. The Coordinator for Inter-Sectoral Networks (with the assistance of
an international consultant (one month in year 1) would, within six months of project
implementation, identify the key sectoral policies to be targeted using project resources. The
officers in charge of the relevant program would coordinate the working groups for each of the
policies selected for formulation or revision. To this end, they would organize workshops that
would formulate recommendations, and would supervise national consultants (total 15 months
over the three-year period of the project) that would prepare working papers on specific policies.
The international consultant would return for two weeks in each of the second and third year to
25



further advise the coordinator and inter-sectoral network officers on policy development. The
coordinator would receive out-of-country training (one month in both the first and the second
year) in the form of practical attachments with an institution involved in the formulation of
environmental policy.
4.19      The Coordinator of Inter-Sectoral Network, in cooperation with the Program
Officers, would, within six months of project implementation, identify studies to be funded by
the project and draft their terms of reference. Such studies might include: a) coastal zone
management; b) the effects of economic policies on the environment, c) the economic impacts of
conservation and natural resources degradation, and d) historical trends in natural resource
availability and use in The Gambia. The studies themselves would be conducted under contract
by national institutions or private consulting firms, each of them under the direct supervision of a
specific inter-sectoral network officer.
4.20      The Director of Networks, with the assistance of an international consultant (two
month in year one) and in coordination with other national agencies, would, within one year of
project implementation, design and implement monitoring and evaluation systems to track the
progress made in achieving GEAP programmatic and policy objectives (including benchmarks
and targets), as well as a reporting format. Using this format, the coordinator and the inter-
sectoral network officers would each year prepare the "State of the Environment Report", no
later than six months after the end of the relevant year. The international consultant would
return for two weeks in each of the second and third year before report completion, to further
advise the coordinator and inter-sectoral network officers. The coordinator would receive out-of-
country training (one month in both the first and the second year) in the form of practical
attachments with an institution involved in the formulation of enviromnental policy.
3.    Environmental Education (base costs: US$405,000)
4.21      Introduction. Under the GEAP, NEA is responsible for promoting the education of
the public on environmental issues. To fulfill this responsibility, NEA faces two challenges.
The first is. to increase awareness of environmental issues among the general public in order to
generate public support and participation regarding environmental management measures. The
second is to create public awareness of NEA and the GEAP itself: its mandate, mission,
capabilities, the nature and extent of NEA's regulatory functions and the services and assistance
NEA can provide to the public, sectoral agencies, or local government. To accomplish this,
NEA would adopt a two-pronged strategy: (a) to broaden public understanding of environmental
issues through the use of the media and cooperative endeavors with academic institutions, local
environmental NGOs and various professional groups such as journalists, teachers, extension
agents or health workers; and (b) to reach critical target groups within national and local
government through workshops and training courses.
4.22      Objectives and expected results. The project component's outputs would be:
(a) increased public awareness of environmental issues; and
(b) public knowledge of NEA and its functions.
26



4.23       Activities. The project would support the following activities:
In year 1: (July 1994-June 1995)
- coordinate the preparation of an environmental public awareness strategy (para.
6.5 (g)),
- prepare a popular version of the GEAP,
- carry out public awareness campaign regarding GEAP and NEA.
In year 2: (July 1995-June 1996)
- carry out public awareness campaigns for specific target audiences on selected
environmental issues, using a multi-media approach,
-  organize regional and sectoral environmental workshops on specific
environmental issues.
In year 3: (July 1996-June 1997)
- carry out further awareness campaigns
- organize additional workshops.
4.24       Costs. The IDA credit would provide: (a) four months of international and 16
months of national short and medium-term technical assistance for the preparation of an
environmental education strategy; (b) three months of out-of-country training for the Program
Officer for Environmental Education; (c) workshops for public officials and private sector
development actors; and (d) public awareness campaigns in the printed and broadcast media.
Comnonent 3: Environmental Education
(US$'000)
CATEGORY               1994       1995       1996        1997       TOTAL
Intemnational consultants  20     20             20          0           60
National Consultants      30      20             20         10           80
Training                   0      5               5          5            15
Workshops                 10      20             15          5           so
Public awareness campaign  35     70             65         30          200
contracts                                   I __
TOTAL                     95      135           125         50          405
4.25       Implementation. NEA itself would conduct few activities, instead subcontracting to
other national institutions or NGOs. Coordination would be ensured through the working group
on environmental education and public awareness, under the coordination of the relevant program
officer(s). For this reason, the establishment of the environmental education working group is a
condition of effectiveness (para. 6.4 (c)).
4.26       Work program. The Program Officer for Environmental Education, with the help of
an international consultant (two months) and national consultants (six months), in collaboration
with other national agencies, and through the Environmental Education and Public Awareness
working group, would formulate an environmental education and communications strategy setting
resource allocation among various media (print, electronic, etc.), as well as other communication
options, and identifying key institutional collaborators from both the public and private sector.
The officer would also develop mission statements, identify key target constituencies, and
27



determine the most effective media and methods for the transmission of specific awareness
building messages. The strategy would be available for review by IDA within three months of
project effectiveness (para. 6.5(g)).
4.27      The strategy would include: (a) at least four workshops each year for the first two
years after project effectiveness for targeted audiences, including journalists, teachers, local level
policy makers, NGOs and extension agents; (b) production of a video on priority environmental
concerns within one year of project implementation and its presentation in 10 villages/towns for
each of six administrative regions within one and a half years of production; (c) weekly national
radio programns on the environment in all national languages, as of start of project; (d)
preparation of a popular version of the GEAP within six months of project effectiveness; (e) two
national canpaigns on GEAP and NEA within one year of project effectiveness: (f) workshops
on GEAP and NEA organized in at least five Divisions for opinion leaders (alkalis, imams,
seyfos, area councilors and women leaders); and (g) two public awareness surveys on the
environment, the GEAP, and NEA, the first no more than three months after project
effectiveness, and the second no less than six months before project completion, to measure
increased awareness of environmental issues.
4.28      NEA would subcontract other actors, such as environrmental NGOs, to conduct
environmental awareness campaigns. National consultants (total 10 over the three-year of the
project) would assist the officer in implementing the strategy. The international consultant would
return for one month in each of the second and third year to help the Program Officer to revise
and improve the strategy.
4.    Monitoring of Environnental Quality and Enforcement (base costs: US$515,000)
4.29      Introduction. Two of NEA's key functions are to: (a) monitor environmental
quality, with particular regards to industrial emissions, water and solid waste; and (b) enforce
enviromnental quality standards when violations are detected. In support of these functions,
NEA would design and coordinate the implementation of a monitoring and reporting system,
built around key indicators and benchmarks derived from a range of chemical and biological
parameters. NEA would also create an Inspectorate, under the supervision of the Program
Officer for Environmental Quality, that would follow up on violations and initiate the necessary
mitigative or repressive measures.
4.30      Objectives and expected results. The project component's outputs would include:
a) stronger capacity to monitor environmental quality; and
b) capacity within NEA to act on specific environmental violations.
4.31      Activities. The project would support the following activities:
In year 1: (July 1994-June 1995)
- develop monitoring system (para. 6.5 (g)),
- develop/strengthen monitoring capabilities,
- establish Inspectorate,
28



- order Inspectorate equipment,
- train Program Officer for Environmental Quality.
In year 2: (July 1995-June 1996)
- implement monitoring program,
- train staff in executing agencies,
- establish enforcement mechanism.
In year 3: (July 1996-June 1997)
- organize workshops,
- review monitoring program.
4.32       Costs. The IDA credit would include: (a) six months of international and eight
months of national short-term technical assistance to help with the design and review of the
monitoring system; (b) nine months of out-of-country training for staff from the inspectorate, as
well as staff from other institutions involved in the monitoring program, in appropriate sampling
techniques and the use of specialized equipment; (c) workshops to establish and periodically
review the monitoring program; (d) equipment for the Inspectorate, including two vehicles and
sampling equipment; (e) the initial cost of establishing the monitoring network; and (f) contracts
covering the recurrent costs of collecting and analyzing samples.
Component 4: Monitoring of Environmental Oualitv and Enforcement
(US$'000)
CATEGORY                     1994        1995        1996       1997       TOTAL
International consultants        60      40              20         0           120
National consultants             10      25              5          0           40
Training                         15      15              15         0           45
Equipment                        25       25             0          0           50
Workshops                        10      20              20        10           60
Monitoring costs                 30      65              70        35          200
TOTAL                           150      190            13.)       45           515
4.33       Implementation. Within one year of project implementation, NEA would establish
the Inspectorate, recruit staff, define its status, its regulatory powers and its relationships with
other public offices such as the Attorney General's Chambers (para. 6.5(g)). An important
assumption is that environmental regulations (financed through GTZ support) covering essential
environmental issues would be finalized before project completion. Another major
implementation issue will be the choice of either limits or permits as the basic mechanism for
pollution control and waste management.
4.34       Work program. NEA's Program Officer for Environmental Quality, under the direct
supervision of the Coordinator for Technical Services Network and in consultation with
appropriate national institutes and agencies, (-ith assistance from international consultants and
national consultants), would coordinate the dt gn of a monitoring strategy. The strategy would
indicate the purpose of each data collection pi -,gram, indicate its relevance to current or
envisaged regulations, set provisional benchmarks and thresholds, and define a monitoring
system, including the density, location and frequency of sampling, and the range of analyses to
be conducted. The Program Officer would organize workshops, as necessary, to establish the
29



monitoring system. Except in the case of pesticide monitoring, which explicitly is part of NEA's
mandate, the Agency itself would neither collect nor analyze samples. Instead, collection and
analysis would be conducted, either by agreement or on contract, by the appropriate national
institutes or agencies. The strategy would be available for review by IDA within one year of
project effectiveness (para. 6.5(g)(ii)). NEA would arrange for periodic independent verification
of monitoring results. The international consultant would return for two months in the second
year and one month in the third year to help the officer-in-charge review and improve the
strategy. During the second and the third year of the project, selected staff from institutes or
agencies involved in the monitoring program would be trained abroad (total six months).
4.35      Monitoring results woulu be delivered to the Inspectorate where they would be kept.
Government would take measures to guarantee that results of monitoring programs by sectoral
agencies, funded outside of the project, are passed on to NEA. In turn, NEA would take
measures to ensure that monitoring results are widely available both to other government
agencies and to the public at large.
4.36      Within one year of project effectiveness, the Program Officer for Environmental
Quality, with the assistance of national consultants (two months in year one) would establish
procedures to be followed by the Inspectorate for responding and reporting on violations
identified either through the monitoring system or complaints from the public (para. 6.5(g)(ii)).
Follow-up would first consist of advice or graded warnings, in an attempt to solve the problem in
a non-confrontational manner, but in refractory cases the Inspectorate would, in cooperation with
relevant govermnent agencies, collect evidence to build up a case which it would then transmit to
the Attomey General's Chambers for prosecution.
4.37      During the second and third year of the project, the Program Officer for
Environmental Quality, with the assistance of national consultants (two months), would organize
workshops for government officials, local level policy makers, opinion leaders and the private
sector on the Inspectorate, its mandate, the monitoring program and enforcement regulations and
procedures.
4.38      Within three months of project start-up the Program Officer would be expected to go
abroad for a three-month long practical attachment with an institution managing an environmental
monitoring program and another institution with a mandate similar to the Inspectorate.
5.    Enviromental Information Management (base costs: US$340,000)
4.39      Introduction. Implementation of the GEAP would require the existence of reference
data, both geographic and thematic, to serve as supports to NEAs technical functions, including
the supervision of the EIA process, environmental monitoring, policy development and
environmental education. Some of these data needs were identified during an assessment made
by the United Nations Soudano-Sahelian Office (UNSO) in August 1992. Many of these needs
are presently unmet, because the agencies mandated to produce and maintain the data have not
been able to do so. Implementing the GEAP will require that at least key sectoral databases be
upgraded to meet GEAP needs and that they be widely distributed to serve as a support for
discussion of environmental issues. USAID/The Gambia's Agriculture and Natural Resource
Management Project, initiated in 1993, will meet part of these needs since it includes funds for a
30



new aerial photographic coverage of all of the country, for updating of 1:25,000 base maps from
these photographs and the digitizing of the updated base maps (Survey Department), and the
mapping of natural resources from the new aerial photographs (MNR). GTZ would use the new
photographic coverage to update current forestry maps. Nonetheless, major gaps remain,
particularly regarding the upgrading land information and the conversion of data sets from analog
to digital formats. These gaps would be filled by this component.
4.40      Because of the trans-sectoral nature of envi,onmental issues, NEA will have to
integrate information from many sources and in an eclectic range of incompatible formats and
nomenclatures, thus hampering data integration and analysis, as well as data aggregation from
larger to smaller scales. Accordingly, it is in NEA's utmost interest that a common information
architecture for spatial information in The Gambia be decided on and widely adopted, and that
this architecture ensures coherence and compatibility among the various types of "enviromnental
information", and between "enviromnental information" and other types of information, most
particularly the population census.
4.41      Environmental management would also require in-country analytical capabilities, for
example to project the likely impact on resources of development options, using models of
ecological processes. Such capabilities are extremely limited in The Gambia and would need to
be developed.
4.42      Objectives and expected results. The project component's outputs would include:
a) coordination of the development and implementation of an Environmental
Information System (EIS) strategy, including guidelines and setting priorities;
and
b) development of national capabilities to conduct spatial analysis.
4.43      Project activities. The project would support the following activities:
In year 1: (July 1994-June 1995)
- develop EIS strategy,
-  initiate the establishment of common data architecture and common data
dictionaries (nomenclatures),
- identify key data sets to be produced or converted,
- train NEA's Program Officer for Enviromnental Information Management,
In year 2: (July 1995-June 1996)
-  finalize the establishment of common data architecture and common data
dictionaries
- production and conversion of key data sets
In year 3: (June 1996-1997)
- organize workshops for public officials, private sector and NGOs,
- train staff in key departments, private sector and NGOs to develop skills for the
analysis of environmental information.
31



4.44       Project costs. The IDA credit would finance: (a) six months of international short-
tern consultancies to help NEA develop and review an EIS strategy; (b) four months of out-of-
country training for staff in NEA and in selected agencies on the management and utilization of
environmental information; (c) workshops to inform public officials and private sector
development actors on the EIS; and (d) the development, upgrading and distribution of selected
key data sets (including equipment).
Component 5: Environmental Information Management
(US$'000)
CATEGORY                      1994       1995        1996       1997       TOTAL
International consultants         0         30          70          0          100
Training                         10          5           5          0          20
Workshops                         5          5           5          5          20
Data production/conversion contract  50     75          50         25         200
TOTAL                            65     -  115          130        30         340
4.45       Implementation. Successful implementation of the environmental information
strategy is closely tied to effective coordination of all actors concerned. For this reason, the
establishment of the environmental information working group is a condition of effectiveness
(para. 6.4 (c)). Production of digital base maps by the Survey Department, under the natural
resources information component of the USAID/The Gambia's ANR project is an important
project assumption. Topographic base maps, in both digital and paper formats, would serve as
the standard support for all geo-referenced information used by NEA. Their systematic use
would be a cornerstone of NEA's policy to assure the compatibility of geographic information
from different sources and a key element of its EIS strategy. The widespread availability of these
maps, at a cost equivalent to that of their reproduction, would further encourage their extensive
use and is additional important assumption. It is also assumed that NEA will organize an EIS
workshop prior to project implementation that would address most of these issues.
4.46       Work program. The Program Officer for Environmental Information Management,
with the assistance of an international consultants (one months in the first year), would formulate
and coordinate the implementation of an EIS strategy. The strategy would be available for
review by IDA within three months of project effectiveness (para. 6.5 (g)). A first version of the
common data architecture would be available in the Documentation Center within twelve months
of project effectiveness. On the basis of this strategy, NEA would then contract specific agencies
to develop or upgrade key data sets. NEA would not itself produce information, but rather
would subcontract these tasks to other national institutions or private operators. Support to any
public institution would conform to its statutory mandates. The officer-in-charge, would prepare
terms of reference for each contract, with the assistance of the international consultant and
regularly monitor progress of their execution. The international consultant would return for two
weeks in both the second year and third years to assist the officer-in-charge in reviewing the EIS
strategy, to suggest improvements, and to advise the various actors involved in the production or
the conversion of environrnental information. A second international consultant (one month in
both the second and third year) would install computer equipment and Geographic Information
System (GIS) software in the agencies contracted to produce or convert information, as well as
provide training in the use of GIS. This consultant would also provide training to develop
analytical skills in using GIS for selected staff from key departments, private sector and NGOs
(two months in third year).
32



4.47      The Environmental Information working group, under the leadership of the Program
Officer for Environmental Information Management, would coordinate all activities touching on
the production, management and use of environmental information in The Gambia. It would
recommend compatibility standards, clarify responsibilities in order to avoid duplication,
promote the respect of statutory mandates, serve as a forum to express user needs and generally
keep all parties concerned abreast of new developments. NEA would take the lead role in
promoting "he acceptance and use of data standards recommended by the working group, as well
as of existing data sets developed according to these standards, by requiring that they be used for
all work under its supervision, such as EIA, or under its commission, for example the monitoring
of indicators, problem solving or the production of any new enviromnentally related information.
4.48      Within three months of project start-up the Program Ofiicer for Environmental
Information Management and the Program Officer for EIAs would both be expected to go abroad
for a one month practical attachment with an institution m-ri- ing an environmental information
system. An additional two months of out-of-country training would be available for staff from
other govermnent agencies involved in the management of geographic information in digital
formats.
6.    Contingency Planning and Emergency Preparedness (base costs: US$125,000)
4.49      Introduction. NEA will occasionally be confronted with environmental crises that
are both unpredictable in their occurrence and magnitude and infrequent. These include: (a)
industrial accidents; (b) accidental leakage of toxic chemicals; (c) epidemics of water-borne
diseases; (d) oil spills and other forms of marine and coastal pollution; (e) flooding caused by
hurricanes; (f) severe drought; and (g) extensive bush tires. The capacity to respond
appropriately and rapidly to these environmental crises in order to mitigate their effects will
depend greatly on adequate preparedness, including both the mobilization of resources and the
prior existence of contingency plans and strategies. The latter falls in NEA's brief.
4.50      Objectives and expected results. The project component's output would include:
(a) a set of contingency plans to mitigate the effects of the major potential environmental
disasters which could adversely affect The Gambia and its population; and
(b) networking mechanisms for the implementation of contingency plans.
4.51      Actvities. The project would support the following activities:
In year 1: (July 1994-June 1995)
- identify possible environmental disasters,
- prepare strategy for contingency planning and include an outline for one
contingency plan.
In year 2: (July 1995-June 1996)
- complete contingency plans,
-  develop capacity for the implementat  :f contingency plans,
- organize multi-disciplinary planning workshop.
33



4.52      Costs. The IDA credit would finance: (a) three months of international and feur
months of national short term technical assistance to identify the major potential disasters and
develop appropriate contingency plans to mitigate their effects; (b) workshops to assist in the
preparation of contingency plans; and (c) workshops for public officials and the private sector to
develop capacity for implementation.
Component 6: Contlnaency Planning and Disaster Preparedness
(US$'O00)
CATEGORY                    1994       1995       1996     1997        TOTAL
International consultants      20        30         110    L    o   :1   60
National consultants            0         5          15         0          20
Training                        0        10          25        10          45
TOTAL                          20     . 45. . _      50         10        125
4.53      Implementation. During the first year of the project, NEA would prepare a strategy
for contingency planning, including the circumstances, how and by whom enviromnental crises
will be officially declared, the extent of the Inspectorate's authority during a crisis, and an
outline of one contingency plan (para. 6.5 (g)(ii)).
4.54       Work program. NEA's Coordinator for Technical Services Network, in coordination
with the agencies mandated to respond to the various crises, would identify possible
enviromnental disasters requiring contingency plans. The contingency plans would be prepared
by a team of officers from relevant national agencies, under the technical guidance of
international (three months) or national (two months) consultants, and under the supervision of
the officer-in-charge. At least one contingency plan outline would be available as part of the
strategy due within one year of project implementation (para. 6.5 (g)(ii)). The Coordinator for
Technical Services Network would also organize workshops for staff from technical agencies,
public officials and the private sector to ensure that the provisions of the contingency plans are
known by all parties concemed. In addition, the Coordinator for Technical Services Network,
with the assistance of national consultants (two months), would organize at least one simulation
exercise, in order to develop capacity within line agencies and local communities to act in cases
of emergency.
C.    Project Implementation
4.55      Organization and rmanagement. The NEA will be the implementing agency for the
project. However, the inter-sectoral nature of many environmental concerns and the diverse
information required for effective management mean that many other agencies must be involved,
including the Ministries of Natural Resources, Agriculture, Local Government and Lands, Health
and Social Welfare, Trade, Industry and Employment, as well as national NGOs. Project
funding would be used to support closely-related and clearly defined activities in some of these
agencies that lie within their present mandates. NEA would play a key role in coordinating the
involvement of these agencies. Inter-sectoral working groups would be set up around specific
topics (environmental education, environmental information, policy development, etc.), in order
to simplify project management and enhance linkages.
34



4.56      The project would take specific actions to develop NEA's capacity to fulfill its role
in project management. This would include issues related to the organization of the Agency,
such as work program, human resources development, budgeting and management procedures.
Project management arrangements would be further strengthened by the provision of functional
technical assistance and the integration of training with technical support. The Goverunent will
give assurances that at all times during project implementation, the Agency Director will be
acceptable to IDA, and the Agency will be operated in an efficient manner (para. 6.5(d)).
4.57      Staffing requirements. As mentioned earlier, the NEA currently has twenty-four
staff, with eight professionals (one Executive Director, one Division Director, one Registrar of
Pesticides, and five program officers). Implementation of the project would require a sustained
commitment of human resources by NEA over the course of the project in order to meet the
project's calendar. The Government has demonstrated its strong commitment to NEA's mandate
by agreeing to a three year staffing plan (which includes additional positions) and the upgrading
of all positions to salary levels which are higher than the civil service's albeit within the public
service. As a condition of negotiations, Government has sent IDA official notification of the
appointment of the Agency Director (para. 6.3 (a)). NEA would designate individual staff
members for each of the project components as a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.4 (b)).
Expected needs for the project in person-months over the three-year period of the project are
listed in the following table (takes into account other requirements on NEA staff time):
Position                                           person months
Executive Director                                      12
Director of Networks                                    18
Coordinator of Inter-Sectoral Network                   24
Program Officer for Natural Resources                   12
Program Officer for Environmental Education             30
2 Program Officer(s) for Envir. Information             60
Management
Media Specialist/Education Assistant                    36
Coordinator for Technical Services Network              12
2 Program Officer(s) for Environmental Quality          72
Program Officer for Envir. Impact Assessments           6
2 Inspector(s)                                          60
Administrator                                           24
Assistant Accountant/Accounts Clerk                     24
Administrative Assistant                                24
Assistant for Public Relations (workshops)              24
35



4.58       Teclnical assistance and training. Technical assistance and training for each project
component would be linked to the agency's work program and feed into the Agency's human
resource development plan, to ensure that they fully contribute to capacity building. An
indicative three-year human resources development program was reviewed during the appraisal
mission (para. 6.2(a)), taking into account the need for increased technical and managerial skills
within NEA and related institutions. As a condition of negotiations, NEA submitted to IDA an
updated human resources management plan, a draft manual of procedures and a detailed work
plan for the first year (para. 6.3(b)). Subsequent annual work and human resource management
plans wol ld be prepared by NEA and reviewed by IDA during the fourth quarter of every year
to reflect the needs identified during supervision of project execution. Assurances will be sought
that Government will make such staff available for the project to fulfill its objectives since it is
crucial that, at all times during project implementation, NEA be fully staffed with competent
personnel and be provided with adequate budgetary resources to cover staff costs (para. 6.5(e)).
4.59       Details of recruitment of international and national consultants, together with the
timing of their inputs was finalized during the appraisal mission (para. 6.2(b)). The following
table gives a provisional breakdown of the technical assistance required over the three-year
period of the project. Overall, there would be about 28 months of international consultancies,
paralleled by about 55 months of national consultancies, mainly for short-term assignments.
During appraisal, agreement was reached on a tentative schedule of consultant recruitment.
Subsequent annual plan(s) and draft TORs for the recruitment of consultants would be prepared
by NEA to reflect the needs identified during supervision and reviewed by IDA during the fourth
quarter of every year.
Number of months of technical assistance per year
(international/national)
Component                        Year I        Year 2       Year 3          Total
7/94 - 6/95   7/95 - 6/96   7/96 - 6/97
1. Institutional support to GEAP  2.5/6        2.5/4        2.5/2          7.5/12
2. GEAP monitoring and policy
development                      2/3           1/6            1/6           4/15
3. Environmental education       1/8           1/4            1/4           3/16
4. Monitoring of environmental
quality and enforcement          3/6           2/1            1/1            6/8
5. Environmental information
management                       1/0           1.5/0         2.5/0           5/0
6. Contingency planning and
disaster preparedness            2/1           1/1           0/2             3/4
TOTAL                          11.5/24         9/16          8/15          28.5/55
36



4.60      The following table provides a provisional breakdown of the training inputs required
over the three-year period of the project.
Number of months of training assistance per year
Component                           Year 1        Year 2         Year 3      Total
7/94 - 6/95   7/95 - 6/96   7/96 - 6/97
1. Institutional support to GEAP      11            14             5          30
2. GEAP monitoring and policy
development                           2              2             0          4
3. Environmental education            I              I             1          3
4. Monitoring of environmental
quality and enforcement               I              I             1          3
5. Environmental information
management                            3              3             3          9
6. Contingency planning and disaster
preparedness                          0              0             0          0
TOTAL                                 18            21             10         49
4.61      Public access to information. Open and public access to environmental information
used for decision-making is a prerequisite for the full participation of society at large in
environmental management. Unrestricted and full access (with appropriate cost recovery
measures in place) to the environmental information held by NEA is important to promote the
open debate of environmental issues by all sectors of Gambian society and to increase the use of
environmental information in environmental management. Consequently, Government's
endorsement of a policy of full access to the results of environmental assessments, environmental
monitoring and data held in the environmental information system will be a condition of
effectiveness. (para. 6.5 (f)).
4.62      Implementation schedule. The project would be implemented over a three-year
period according to the timetable in Annex Four. To assess results achieved, the NEA will
prepare quarterly and annual reports to be submitted to IDA no later than one month after the end
of the quarter and no later than March 31 of the following year respectively. The quarterly
report will report progress vis-a-vis the verifiable key indicators which appear in Annex Five.
D.    Financing Plan
4.63      The proposed financing plan includes an IDA credit of US$2.6 million equivalent,
which will finance 81 % of project costs, excluding parallel financing, or 58% including parallel
financing, net of duties and taxes. IDA's financing will cover approximately US$1,928,800 of
foreign costs and US$671,200 of local costs. The Borrower will be The Government of The
Gambia, with the project loan funds to be made available by the Government to the NEA. As
regards Government counterpart funds, agreement was reached during appraisal that the
Government will provide these funds by covering the incremental operational costs of the NEA
during the three years of the project life (para. 6.2(c)). Parallel co-financing totaling DM2.1
million (about US$1.30 equivalent), amounting to 29% of total program cost, is in the process of
being finalized by the GTZ as a result of a separate project appraisal. The proposed financing is
the following:
37



Financing Plan
(US$'000)
L ocal          Foreign           Total           % of Total
[ Government            600.0              0.0             600.0             13
IDA                   671.2           1,928.8          2,600.0              58
i GTZ                   271.1           1,028.9         1,300.0              29
Total Cost          1,542.3           2,957.7          4,500.0
E.    Auditing and Accounting
4.64       Since NEA is a new agency, an adequate accounting system has to be set up. An
accounting firm acceptable to IDA will be selected under PPF financing to help the Agency
establish its accounting system. The appointment of this firm, and the signing of a relevant
contract with the firm, was a condition of negotiations (para. 6.3 (c)), and the setting up of an
operational accounting system will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.4 (e)).
4.65       The NEA's accounts will be audited every six months by an external auditor
acceptable to IDA and the audited accounts would be submitted to IDA not later than one month
after the end of the semester and not later than three months after the end of the year for the
consolidated annual audit. The preparation of relevant terms of reference and short list for an
external auditor acceptable to IDA was a cndition of negotiations (para. 6.3 (d)). The
appointment of, and signing of a multi-year contract with, external auditors acceptable to IDA to
carry out semi-annual audits will be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.4 (d)).
F.    Procurement
4.66       Consultant services for technical assistance, training and studies will be procured
according to Bank Guidelines dated August 1981. Procurement under parallel financing will
follow GTZ procedures and will be carried out simultaneously with the IDA procurement.
Contracts for vehicles, materials and equipment will be procured either through international
shopping (at least three suppliers) or using the International Agencies Procurement Service Office
(IAPSO) procedures. All contracts for consultants/technical assistance, training and studies will
be subject to prior review by th. IDA. The table below sum=mrizes the project elements, their
estimated costs and the proposed methods of procurement:
38



Procurement
(US$'000)
Project Element                 Procurement Method           Not IDA        TOTAL
financed
ICB        LCB          Other                .
1. Goods
1.1 Vehicles/Equipment                                    150           90          240
________________________ _   _____(150)         _     (150)
2. Consultancies                                           1,705         850         2,555
__________________________ ._______    __________  (1,705)                  (1,705)
3. Training/Workshop                                        445         206           651
.___________________________  _________           (445)                     (445)
4. Incremental Operating                                                 754          754
Expenses                                                                            (0)
5. PPF Refinancing                                          300                       300
__________________________  ________  __________   (300)                      (300)
TOTAL                                                      2,600        1,900        4,500
________-. (2,600)                       (2,600)
Amounts in parentheses are financed by IDA.
G.      D)isbursements
4.67            The credit will finance 100%  (see table below) of all the project components
except for the category of incremental operational expenses, for which the project will finance
zero costs.
Disbursements by Category
(US$'000)
Category                       Amount             % Financed
1. Consultant Services                        1,705,000             100%
2. Training/Workshops                           445,000              100%
3. Equipment/Vehicles                           150,000              100%
4. PPF Refinancing                              300,000      Amount due
TOTAL                                         2,600,000     I            _
39



4.68      This technical assistance project will have a life of three years; the closing date will
be December 31, 1997. The related disbursement profile shown below, in US$ million:
Estimated Disbursements
(US$'000)
FY and Semester     Disbursement     Cumulative
FY95 1st semester     367.84           367.84
2nd semester     366.34           734.17
FY96 1st semester     408.50        1,142.67
2nd semester     406.04         1,548.71
FY97 1st semester     363.50        1,912.21
2nd semester     413.57         2,325.78
FY98 1st semester     274.22        2,600.00
4.69      The Government will establish a US$ Special Account, in The Central Bank of The
Gambia, to which IDA will make an initial deposit of US$240,000 (estimate of about three
months of expenditures). Upon effectiveness, IDA will advance 50% of the authorized
allocation. The remaining balance will be available as needed. This Special Account will be
replenished by IDA monthly according to disbursement regulations and will include a
certification of the bank holding the account showing: (a) account activity since the last
replenishment application; (b) the account balance; and (c) a reconciliation statement. Should
any disbursement made be disallowed by IDA, the Government will re-deposit the corresponding
amount to the Special Account. Given the availability of the Special Account, applications for
direct payment, Special Commitment, and reimbursement will normally be for US$24,000 (or
10% of the initial deposit) equivalent mninimum. Disbursements from the IDA credit will be fully
documented, except for payments under contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent, which will
be reimbursed against certified statements of expenditures, for which documentation will be
retained by NEA for review by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
4.70      Stawus of project preparation. At the conclusion of the Sectoral Consultations in
October 1992, the Government proposed to IDA the financing of a project to build on the
momentum achieved by the GEAP process and the consensus achieved within the country of the
imperative to have strong institutional structures for envirownental planning and management.
Based on Government's request, IDA put in place a Project Preparation Facility in March 1993
to fund some of the activities required to set up the NEA. There has been some delay, however,
in the utilization of the PPF due to the fact that the NEA was not officially created until July
1993, and that a scheduled move to NEA headquarters took place in late February 1994. This
resulted in the purchase of equipment and other operational infrastructure also being postponed
until this date. During the appraisal mission, agreement was reached on the following: a
tentative human resource development plan for the three-year project period, and a tentative
schedule of consultant recruitment. In addition, and as a result of the Objectives Oriented Project
Planning (ZOPP) seminar at the inception of the appraisal mission, agreement was reached on the
project monitoring indicators which will be tracked during project implementation (Annex 5).
40



Draft terms of reference for the major consultancies during the first year of the project and the
agency strategy paper were also reviewed. A draft of the revised NEMA was shared with IDA
in November 1993 and comments from IDA and GTZ (IUCN) were incorporated into the latest
draft. The revised piece of legislation was finalized and presented to NEMC in January 1994 and
will be presented to Parliament in March 1994.
4.71       Project supervision. Project supervision would be closely linked to the
implementation schedule discussed above and would involve monitoring a number of key
indicators determined during appraisal (Annex 5). Details of the timing of supervision missions
and the skills that are likely to be needed for supervision are presented in Annex Six. There
would be four missions during the first year of the project to provide close supervision and
assistance during the critical start-up period. The Multi-Donor Secretariat (MDS) for NEAPs
will play a support role in these supervision activities.
4.72      In an effort to ensure proper coordination of donor activities, at least one supervision
would be undertaken jointly each year with GTZ and USAID/The Gambia.
4.73      Mid-terni reviewv. No later than 18 months after the project becomes effective, a
mid-term review would be held, involving NEA and related agencies as well as donors (IDA,
GTZ and USAID). To facilitate this review, NEA would prepare a mid-term project report, to
be distributed to all participants one month prior to the start of the review (para 6.5 (h)). The
review team would review progress against the key indicators monitored during supervision
(Annex 5) and towards the revision of key policy and legislative measures set out in the GEAP,
that are of particular relevance to project supported activities. The review would focus
particularly on progress in capacity building, staff development as well as the functionality and
efficacy of the environmental management systems put into place. The mid-term review would
also lead to changes in project design if they are thought to be necessary, with recommendations
for the implementation of the proposed changes.
4.74       Completion Review. The project completion review would focus on the
achievements of the project and its impact in relation to objectives. In particular, consideration
would be given to the effectiveness of the capacity building for environmental management
initiatives. A project completion report would be prepared, presenting findings and
recommendations. The review team would be headed by a member of the NEA and would
include representatives from all the other agencies as well as one recognized expert in
environmental planning. Additional resources for the team could be provided by the Multi-donor
Secretariat and the Network for Environment and Sustainable Development in Africa. Terms of
reference for the team and its membership would be agreed to, and the project completion report
would be submitted to IDA no later than six months after completion of the project.
41



V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.    Benefits and Justification
5.1       The project is fully consistent with the Bank's strategy for The Gambia, which
stresses the need to strengthen the institutional framework for environmental management and the
implementation of the GEAP. The project also supports Government's strategy for the
sustainable use of the environment, by financing the implementation of important aspects of the
GEAP. The Gambia is one of the first group of countries to have completed a NEAP and is one
in which Govemment ownership of the process is very strong. Government commitment to
integrating environmental issues to the developmeiit planning process is reflected in the decision
to create this new agency and place it under the auspices of the Office of the President. IDA has
strongly supported countries' efforts to prepare and implement NEAPs; The Gambia's NEAP
process can serve as a model to other African countries involved in similar planning processes.
The project actions will ensure that the proper institutional, legislative and functional frameworks
are in place to address the critical environmental issues facing The Gamnbia and that activities are
imiplemented to reverse the trend of environmental degradation.
B.    Risks
5.2       Risks are associated with the effectiveness of the environmental management system,
in particular the ability to achieve effective inter-sectoral coordination of actions. However, the
Government has expressed its commitment to this integration of environment into the sectoral
planning process through the GEAP and through the creation of the NEA. Also, the capacity
building focus of this project is designed to assist not only the st- ff of NEA, but also within
other sectoral ministries whose work requires attention to envir imiental considerations. There
are risks related to the general lack of knowledge of environm. -ital issues and limited capacity to
handle technical environmental issues. The project directly addresses these shortcomings through
its focus on technical and managerial training of management and staff of the NEA and through
the provision of technical consultancies to transfer competence.
C.    Impact on Women
5.3       The project will contribute to a greater ptblic awareness and undenctanding of
env onmental issues in The Gambia; in particular, rural populations will be made aware of the
relationship between their utilization of the natural resource base and the need to manage those
resources properly for future generations. Women will be particular target groups for this
message in their role as educators of future generations.
42



VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       The following event took place before appraisal:
(a) Government created the NEA in August 1993 (para. 2.22).
6.2       The following agreements were reached during appraisal:
(a) agreement on an indicative human resources development plan for the three-year
period of the project (para 4.58);
(b) agreement on tentative schedule of consultant recruitment together with timing of
their inputs (para. 4.59);
(c) agreement on Government counterpart covering all incremental operating costs of the
NEA during the three years of project life (para. 4.62);
(d) agreement on the conditionality to be attached to the main activities carried
out with GTZ financing (para. 6.5(a) and 6.5 (c); and
(e) project monitoring indicators (see Annex 5).
6.3       The following were conditions of negotiations:
(a) the official notification to IDA of the appointment of the Agency Director
(para. 4.57);
(b) the finalization of a human resource management plan, a manual of
procedures and a detailed first-year work plan for NEA (para 4.58);
(c) the appointment of, and signing of a contract with, an accounting firm acceptable to
IDA to setup NEA's accounting system (para 4.64); and
(d) the preparation of terms of reference and short list for an external auditor
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.65).
6.4       The following are conditions of effectiveness:
(a) signature of the grant agreement with GTZ by Govermnent (para. 3.9);
(b) NEA has designated required staff members for each of the project components (para
4.57);
(c) working groups have been established for environmental education and
enviromnental information (paras. 4.25 and 4.45);
43



(d) the appointment of, and signing of a multi-year contract with, external auditors
acceptable to IDA to carry out semi-annual audits (para. 4.65); and
(e) setting-up of an operational accounting system (para. 4.64).
6.5        The following assurances are reflected in the legal documents:
(a) NEMA revisions will be shared with IDA for review and comment (para. 2.22);
(b) NEA will submit to IDA for review and comment updated human resources
management plan, annual work plan(s) (para. 4.58), consultant recruitment
schedule(s) and draft TORs (para. 4.59) for the second and third years of the project
during the fourth quarter of the preceding year (para. 4.58);
(c) Govermnent will put in place EIA procedures that are acceptable to IDA, no later
than 18 months after credit effectiveness (para. 3.9);
(d) at all times during project implementation, the Agency Director will be acceptable to
IDA, and the Agency will be operated in an efficient manner (para. 4.56);
(e) at all times during project implementation NEA will be fully staffed with competent
personnel and will have adequate budgetary provisions to cover staff costs (para.
4.58);
(f) results of EIAs, environmental monitoring and data held in the EIS will be made
available to the public at large (para 4.61);
(g) the Government will: (i) submit within three months of project effectiveness,
strategies and action plans for environmental education (para. 4.26) and an
environmental information system (para. 4.46); (ii) submit within one year, a
strategy for environmental monitoring (para. 4.34) and contingency planning,
including one draft plan (para. 4.54) as well as establish the Inspectorate, define its
status (para. 4.33) and its operating procedures (para. 4.36); and
(h) in anticipation of the mid-term review, which would take place no later than 18
months after project effectiveness, NEA would prepare a mid-term project report to
be distributed to all participants (IDA, GTZ, and other Government agencies) one
month prior to the start of the review. The review would focus particularly on
progress in capacity building and staff development, as well as the functionality and
efficiency of the environmental management systems being put into place (para
4.73).
6.6       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Credit of SDR
1.9 million (US$2.6 million equivalent) to the Republic of The Gambia on standard IDA terms.
44



ANNEX 1
45



OFFICE OF THE
PRESIDENT
NATIONAL
ENVIRONMENT
MANAGEMENT
COUNCIL
I
NATiONAL
ENVFONENT 
Coordinstor                Coordinator
Technlcal                Inter-Sectoral             Administrator
Services Neto                   Network
Environmental              Environmental                General
Legislation                 Education              Administration
Environmental              Environmental            Hu~ma ReOce
kImac Assessment              Information               Development
Services
EnvironmentalL Natural Resources                        Fw
Quality                  Mngmn
Public Reations
46



ANNEX 2
4.7



GAMBIA ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
(GEAP)
I. SUMMARY
1         Introduction. The Gambia Enviroranental Action Plan (GEAP) is intended to
provide a framework for national environmental policy planning and iuatural resource
management decision making on a continuous basis. It was initiated under the auspices of the
National Environmental Management Council and pr-epared by the Environment Unit of the
Ministry of Natural Resources and the Environment (now the National Environment Agency).
The CEAP provides a review of the existing envirownental situation and outlines approaches to
deal with the problems, including institutional changes and other required actions.
2.        The State of the Environment in The Gambia. Major environmental problems
imnpacting The Gambia stem from the effects of a rapidly growing population which is making
unsustainable use of the natural resource base. The results of this population increase, coupled
with widespread poverty, are: (a) uncontrolled urbanization; (b) depletion of the natural
resources base, particularly forests and pasture lands and decline in soil fertility through poor
farming practices and (c) poor management of natural resources whica has led to destructive bush
fires, exploitative tinber cutting, depletion of the vegetation cover and intensive grazing
practices. Management of these issues has been handled haltingly by a wide array of public
institutions, but coordination and information management has been poor and the problems have
continued to worsen.
3.        Environmental Policy. While economic performance has improved over the past
years due to Govertment's efforts, environmental degradation has increased, posing a threat to
continued economie growth. Attenpts to deal with environmental problems within a policy
framework date to the Banjul Declaration of 1977. A series of institutional developments
followed, including the creation of the Environment Unit and the enactment of the National
Environment Management Act of 1987. Government recognized that a sectoral and policy-based
appreach to environmental protection and natural resources management was inadequate. It
therefore decided to prepare a national environmental action plan, in order to develop a clear
definition of enviromnental priorities consistent with the overall goal of sustainable development.
This process culminated in the Gambia Environmental Action Plan (GEAP), which was approved
by Cabinet in July 1992.
4.        GEAP Strategy Framework Sununa. The GEAP contains a series of policy
objectives, programs and implementation strategies aimed at ensuring environmentally safe
development and based upon an analysis of the environmental situation of The Gambia, contained
in the GEAP. The following is a summary of the framework for action as laid out in the GEAP.
48



II. POLICY OBJECTIVES
OBJECITVE A: TO CONSERVE AND PROMOTE THE RATIONAL USE OF NATURAL
RESOURCES FOR THE BENEFIT OF PRESENT AND FUTURE
GENERATIONS
Problems addressed:
* bushfire damage
* drought and growing scarcity of water resources
* inadequate land use/natural resource planning
* degradation of vegetation and loss of forest cover
* soil degradation and reduction in fertility
* reduction in fish stocks
* coastal erosion
OBJEC'TIVE B: TO PRESERVE AND IMPROVE THE HEALTH AND QUALITY OF
LIFE OF ALL GAMBLANS THROUGH SOUND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
Problems addressed:
e water supply reduction and water-borne pollution
- poor sanitation
- waste management and disposal
e deleterious use of inorganic fertilizers and groundwater pollution
* inappropriate use of pesticides and resultant contamination
* rapid and uncontrolled urbanization
* coastal pollution
g roundwater pollution and salinization
e lack of adequate physical planning
* inapproprlate and inadequate infrastructure
OBJECTIVE C: TO PRESERVE AND/OR RESTORE THE EQUILIBRIUM OF
ECOSYSTEMS
Problems addressed:
* degradation of vegetation and loss of forest cover
* loss of biodiversity and wildlife
* soil erosion and loss of production capability
* degradation of coastal areas
49



OBJECTIVE D: TO STRENGTHEN THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL COORDINATION AND MANAGEMENT AT THE
NATION, REGIONAL AND GLOBAL LEVELS
Problems addressed:
* lack of information for enviromnental planning and mangement
e inadequate national environmental policy and legislation
* land tenure issues
* poor coordination of implementing agencies
* lack of coordination with non-governmental organizations
* transboundary movement of hazardous waste
* regional coastal erosion
e atmosphenc and waterway pollution
* inadequate technology transfer
OBJECTIVE E: TO INCREASE THE ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AND
UNDERSTANDING OF THE PUBLIC AND BRING ABOUT EFFECTIVE
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION AND COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT IN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Problems addressed:
* inadequate incentives for comnunity participation in natural resource
mnagement
* lack of environmental awareness among the population
e insufficient environmental education in the school system
OBJECTIVE F: TO ENSURE THE INTEGRATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS IN ALL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGIES AND
RELATED ACTIVITIES
Problems addressed:
* uncontrolled industrialization
* urban and rural polluton
* commercial over-exploitation of natural resources
* lack of environmental assessment procedures and legislation
* indequate environmental planning
50



OWBECTIVE G:  TO ACCELERATE THE ADOPTION OF ALTERNATE SOURCES OF
ENERGY
Problems addressed:
* inadequate fuelwood supplies and deforestation
* pollution from use of fossil fuels
* inadequate promotion and use of renewable energy resources (solar, wind, etc.)
m. PROGRAMMATIC OBJECTIVES:
A.    Actions to Address the Poli,y Issues
1. Natural Resources Management Program
* assist and encourage producers to adopt improved land and resource management
practices
* manage coastal and freshwater resources
* develop Government/NGO partnerships for natural resources management
* collect, analyze and use data for nantral resources management and planning
* develop local area integrated management plans
2. Environmental Health Program
3 improve waste management in urban areas
- control pollution related to hazardous chemicals and industry
- increase comnunity involvement in controlling adverse environmental problems
3. Energy Program
e introduce new and renewable sources of energy to substitute for fuelwood
i  increase the amount of cultured fuelwood available through community forest
managemnent programs and reduction in depletion of natural forests
B.    Proam Implementation Strategies: Policy Level Changes
1. Insitonal Framework Development
* improved inter-sectoral coordination
* improved NGO coordination
* modified institutional structures for environmental planning and management
* improved and codified environmental legislation
 improved enforcement of regulation
* study of influence of property rights on naural resources management
2. Fisca Measures for lmproved Environmenal Protection
* improved and rationalized tax and tariff regime
* appropriate use of fines and penalties for regulatory breach
51



3. Public Awareness
* media campaigns
* environmental extension
* environmental education in schools
* environmental programs aimed at women, teachers and media practitioners
4. Environmentat Informadon Management
* data standardization
* data collection and dissemination
* development of appropriate EIS/GIS for The Gambia
* support for the Documentation Center of the National Environment Agency
C.    Projects which Support Required Actions
There are many ongoing projects which support the policy objectives as outlined
above. They have been taken into account and will be built upon as the investment program for
GEAP implementation is designed.
D.    Cross-Sectoral Policy Support Projects
* Institutional Support Projects for Environmental Management
* Projects to Develop Environmental Information Systems and Data Base
* Projects for Environmental Education and Public Awareness
E.    Institutignal and Legal Framework for IUloementation
The institutional and legal framework recommendations in the GEAP call for a
revision of the institutional structures and a strengthening of the enviromnental coordination,
regulatory and monitoring functions. The Environment Unit has therefore been succeeded by a
National Environment Agency, under the auspices of the Office of the President.
52



a X3NNV



THE GAMBIA-CA-PACITY BUILDING FbOR-ENVIRONMENT MANAGEMMNT--            I
= .                             .         ..~*AR C     U_  u
International Consultants             70      90      90             250
National Consultants                   15     25      20      10      70
Training                              25      50      50      25    150
EquLpment/Vehicles                    40      40      20       0    100
Audit a10                                     is      is      10      so
Icremental Operating Expenses        97    198    203    102    6Q00
Total  ____*.2S7    418_   3~98                           17   1,2
._                                                            Me
International Consultants             20      20      20      20    10
National Consultants                  20      25      20      10      75
Training                               8      1        5       2      20
Workshops                               3     2        7       2      20
Studies                               15      35    37        35    100
Total                                 63      96      87      49    295
Ieaolouas                                     30      2       10      60
Intornational Consultant.              0      50   30     10   1060
National Consultants                  20      30      20      10      80
Training                               5       8       3       3      2S
Workshops                              10     18      15       3      20
Public awareness campaign contr        35     68      65      33    200
Total                                 70    140    123        63    40S
International Consultants              30     30      30      10    120
National Consultants                    S     13      15       8      40
Training                                a      10     15       0      4
.tguL n                                 a      is     is      10      so
Workshops                              10      20     20      10      60
*Monitrn  Contracts                    30      65     70      35    200
Total                                  90    178    168       2o 515
n  ~~~~~~~~~~~5
International Consultants             10      so      30      10    100
Training                                5      8       5       3      20
Workshops                               5      a       5       3      20
Data production/conversion cont        so     75      so      25    200
Total                                  70    140      90      40    340
Xnternatlonal Consultants             20      30      10       0      60
National Consultants                   13     is       S       0      35
Training                                5     10       5       0      20
Workshops                               3       5      3       0      10
itotal                                 40   _63       23       0    125
54 --



ANNEX 4
55



THE  tHFA- CsAcA Y B DIs                                                                                                      iO FOR E          ieeoN  AL
CENMXT VA PROECT                                              1994                         1886                                   lo            1998            99
___________________________ J AON|D J IFMIAIMJ JIJIA S|ONID J FIMIA|M|J |J A801N|D J FIM|AMJ
Institutional Support to the GEAP
AcqXuisitionof aquipttwwnt                                               RR|___ ______Zrr                                                          rIL _I  
Tr*it* of NEA manaetomnt                                                                                                             I    Mill  1__L_____|_4A  L-L-    I  I  I    _ 
Pisparstion of trniing materil end taining of NEA staf ll                                                                         I
Trainkng of .toff In key Instilutions
GEAP Monitoring end Policy Development
Sectora policies              identilic tion
* vi ion_
Studies                       idenitication
-    tulilsnelitI                            I  I   I  I
Reponts
Environmental Education
Pieparetion of strategy
Public owerenss cam'gn regarding GEAP end NWAP
Public *w  eness carmpaigne on specific themes
Regionl en sectoral workshops
Monitoring of Environmental Quglity and Enforcement
Deveopmnt of rmontoring system
Establishnent ol h npectoreto and trkinung oe telt 
Estashmnent of monitoring capabiliies
Workshops
Operation of monitoring sytem
Environmental Information Management
Development of EIS etrategy and guidelines
Treining of NEA inlormation office
Cpoeion of koey dat osete
Workshop
Develpment of analytical skilII
Contingency Planning and Disaster Preparenessr
Peprdation of contingency plan
Workshio|
-Sirr"ltion exercise,



5XNNV



Matri of Perfomasuce Judicators
COMPON NT AND OJECTIVE S..                                            END YEAR ONE                                       END YEAIA TWO                           .                 YEAR THREE
t.     utslls e,lpal tot the kt_ lneaUtlos d  tW GtSA'
1.I   SkWi of tWAst08t bapoved                     1.,11.1  Alt.11 two ess tall Ittt bsheE t l.t  . et  1.1.1  At sheI 4 stliakin Pro"                     i.t.t  At4 stttlsUk  s   pt*a i wau       oat
t.n1.  NS    mewA0.o                                                                            t.l.2 Akmdm tt     qnutt,on duh tat tgo   tA
1.1.2  lFU  tt twl o pmr5icl5 h a tam bu           t..2  Al  gU55l .m2werbo                                  A cs o nAe  wesonoft   ndcctl d st    a tNp 1e1
blwo   P                      ttal mniPaS on commnukton Aku ad                                        -aIlIn
epal %Wulslige                              1.1.3  AN 5508* San teceelved conupstow tish*s
1.1.3  ,ttnbu tin COsPstes uacy has "tedd           1.1.3  Cotpu tas Itey tsarv                        t tconllsw.1ed   1.  SeAt te    4   stalnad itn.derdtson
1.1.4  Al b$m   Exec xue betos, Deputy Ctttt        1.1.4  As l"st 2 Utall Utnd in errustimon
atd FtnntW Otilcot sieaelt h ati scenki On
1.2.1  ISorntel cusklosA  4vpsed and b
|.2   Stet of .th..                                        orettsort d_y Jdm ddvy by M1M1
Iselned                                       1.2.2  Al kW on voskid  conducted AMt                                                                  1.2.2  As  st on, woolsloop ondut   gm
cnWavir   t dek olticmslorpocmnts Jo         1.2.2  Al balt om WootkshIop cnucted loar                 swluosnlt deuk            o0
Ism agn"                                            a            dek olt_ sethscvposlds  In            MO agend
te ag4Ie.    op 81.4 w.lotttl                                             cWt  SWr dam"
tnakw  on &VAMikAWsne mawsgan elad
.3    MIS la p    ot.                                                                                  5.          txe*
1.)   NK.  tlAgMu t           _naso  Stls                                                               5.3  UIB t swo4"
btte                                         1.4       _tqsom a h ts VIMnobuaW
*A    nomt  t ao.                                                                                                          .          
2.1   Ctpaby ty so staaa, evoeoand Pgboscm          2.1  telcadon f VtW 1994 dlat GI te                 2.1  ftbUo4tlSna1 of 0    19S1e4o do ts           2.1.1 t ub la of tle 199S tet td Lua
GSA? gu.4an.nasd. adele             Endeamien~~e 8pa5I*ooteea                                                                              Iab"Oems"m hapo
S                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.1.2 GWAteee
2.2    WA asalete tcolo  _etotaw  agenda to ipe    2.2   Weosbas wosb"                                 2.2   Wostsm"e 4ostdd                             2.2   Wotbeep _rpze
plkik; wllh "AP
_a _dU   G.A                          ._                     _._             _._                                                          _,__ _ _ _           .__               _   _       __
3.    61w Vtvra.Sal edicalhas
3.1  t?uAd easeB  4of  sluostmnWl Se h              3.t.1 Ealowsewdt teaont ts              portplalted                                                    3.1 X1   dtl st popedsn se aw Ct omy
bwcteee                                             e t ows,hs fel  st. of F cI                                                                                         bows tase _t be deloutlrdd .8w
3.1.t  Vide oan psIodrt esot4eto                                                                             buds t    evel
3.1.3  Al lem 4 wobthspa costApla4takey tsgt    3.1.3  At last 4 w ttl w so aopto key                  3.1   Vlohothawed in t@v Wta      dowm ei"oh
wa..                                                we"S WO195                                        4 emie~80"r ("Wmau
3.1.4  W ly naton lefd  btcs on"te                3.1.4  Weekly natInlo afbeesdcacss on noJe.1.4  Weet  aseonsi eaft dbsdeea on aith
akseer4  b  tina   load mng                        enwvotan In rx tod langue                           eswssasn  hn as hc tat"as
3.2    P*        le . GSA? ed  EAP eA stsed         3.2.1  Two nstai carsatpene on GW    nd MIA                                                            3.2.1  GA  Keed IUA wosbtakwps omprfsad    in se leest
complte by lt "Is ea l @1,501                                                                          S DiW& M Eu oapbdon kead.
3.2.2  Ptpaar veson d GfAr conpaad voliire S
m wd pofc r e
4.     .atskg .4 eswl tI p.gy .n odw                                                                                                       ..a
4.1   CsPec to I. n onl     Ofvl Oal quayIty b      4.1.6  Aoordnated e      sNslalreaUIstbu            4.1.1  uttocAt     p#soi  Is  hpna
tsargtAn                                            SYtt  Is desIne                              4.1.2  Monitorn systm tee a ed                      4.1.2  M_aokg Stem seteewed
4.2  l#SWb capeCily 5t on tI4peto                   4.2    upet,as  t e tialis    a &   ntlosdn         4.2   Eslorcenn  acudwsa eatibid                   4.2   Al lug S vIolation  efilasul wes mr
anevslddlsosI  eeold_________________                                                           b_______________                                           IooeVd



0                 -
:1
a.
I ji!    I         ijfI
ill  I               iI'
It.
ill
a
as   as  was
as-          as
I ii
r. I
* '4             *1
ii         L1 B?ur             a
  !                    0%
da
9                   El
19            1
'1              U                 C
2.      fI -L  t                p
K
C,
p
as         as  as                   -.
as             Ls                   -
0
II
Ii         ''   a
6
Ii I
II          I
as       as   -    -
I
I      Iiif  
iiiff 
I              j
I
iii''
. 1 I*
9. 1:
59



ANNEX 6
60



TIMING AND COMPOSITION OF SUPERVISION MISSIONS
APPROXIMATE                           ACTIVITY
DATE                                                            EXPECTED SKILLS
(SW)
September 1994         Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
Proiect Launch Workshop                          Environmental Specialist (1)
Objectives:
a) Explain project objectives to participants (NEA.
Government agencies, donors)
b) Review effectiveness:
i) Achievement of credit effectiveness
ii) Review management and accounting procedures
in NEA
December 1994         Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmental Specialist (1)
l__________________  b) Review outstanding issues
March 1995            Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmental Specialist (1)
l__________________  b) Review outstanding issues                                                   |
June 1995             Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmnental Specialist (1)
b) Review outstanding issues                                                11
Sept/Oct. 1995        Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmental Specialist (1)
l_________________  Db) Review outstanding issues
December 1995         Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmental Specialist (1)
b) Review outstanding issues
March 1996            Joint IDA/GovtlGTZ Mid-Term Review                Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review overall project progress and adequacy of    Environmental Specialist (1)
institutional arrangements
b) Review project accounting, SOE and
disbursements
c) Review project's overall impact
May/June 1996         Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (i)
a) Review project progress and imnplementation of  Environmental Specialist (1)
recommendations from the mid-term review
b) Review outstanding issues
September 1996        Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmental Specialist (1)
b) Review outstanding issues
December 1996         Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmental Specialist (1)
_   b) Review outstanding issues
March 1997            Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmental Specialist (1)
b) Review outstanding issues
June 1997             Supervision Mission                               Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
a) Review project progress                       Environmental Specialist (1)
b) Review outstanding issues
September 1997        Final Supervision Mission                         Urb. Fin. Analyst (1)
_  Environmental Specialist (1)
Staff inputs in staff weeks (sw) to supervision are as follows: eight sw for FY95. eight sw for FY96, eight sw for FY97.
two sw for FY98.
61



