Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21832
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26020)
ON A CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 1.9 MILLION (US$2.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
FOR A CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
February 14, 2001
Environment Unit, AFTES
Country Department 14
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
Currency Unit = Gambian Dalasi (GMD)
GMD 1.00 = US$ 0.065
US$ 1.00 = GMD 15.4
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANR           Agriculture and Natural Resources
CBEM          Capacity Building for Environmental Management
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
EAS           Environmental Awards Scheme
EE            Environ-mental Education
EEC           Environmental Education and Communication
EIA           Environmental hnpact Assessment
EIS           Environmental Information System
GEAP          Gambia Environmental Action Plan
GGEMP         Gambia German Environmental Management Project
GIS           Geographic Information System
GOTG          Govenmuent of The Gambia
GTZ           Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDA           International Development Association
IFAD          Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
M&A           Monitoring and Assessment
MEQ&E         Monitoring Environmental Quality and Enforcement
MIS           Management Information System
NEA           National Environment Agency
NEAP          National Environmental Action Plan
NEMA          National Environmental Management Act
NEMC          National Environmental Management Council
NEP           National Environmental Policy
NRM           Natural Resource Management
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SAL II        Structural Adjustment Loan, Phase II
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNSO          United Nations Sahelian Office
USAID         United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   John McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:  Roger Sullivan
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Yves Prevost



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CR. 26020)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                    12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  14
9. Partner Comments                                                                 16
10. Additional Information                                                         23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  3 3
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               34
This document has a restricted distribution          and may be used by recipients only          in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000831                                       Project Name: ENVIRNMT MGMT CAP BL
Team Leader: Yves Andre Prevost                           TL Unit: AFTES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: February 13, 2001
1. Project Data
AName: ENVIRNMT MGMT CAP BL                          L/CITFNumber: IDA-26020
Countr,y,Department: GAMBIA, THE                                         Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: VI - Enviromnental Institutions
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/22/93                               Effective: 09/15/94           08/02/95
Appraisal:  10/14/93                                  MTR: 09/15/96              03/14/97
Approval:  04/12/94                                Closing: 12/31/97            08/31/99
Borrowerllmplementing Agency: Republic of The Gambia/National Environment Agency (NEA)
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                  At Appraisal
T'ice President:     Callisto Madavo                           Edward K. Jaycox
Country M1anager:    John McIntire                             Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:       Roger Sullivan                            Peter Watson
Team Leader at ICR:  Yves Prevost                              Grace Yabrudy
ICR PrimaryAuthor:    Michael Furst; Robert Etheredge;
Jo Anne Yeager Sallah; Tanya
Lisa Yudelman
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the Capacity Building for Environmental Management and Technical Assistance
Credit was to establish the capacity within the National Environment Agency (NEA) and other relevant
agencies to develop and guide an effective system for environmental planning and management in The
Gambia, and to ensure that environmental concerns are fully integrated and reflected in the social and
economic development process in The Gambia.
The Government of The Gambia (GOTG) has been making concerted efforts to improve environmental
management for over 25 years. Following the Banjul Declaration in favor of the protection of the country's
biodiversity in 1977, GOTG attempted to develop an institutional framework for addressing environmental
issues by creation of an Environment Unit in 1983. This was followed in 1987, by the enactment of the
National Environment Management Act (NEMA), which provided legislative measures for environmental
protection, and later by the creation of the Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR). Despite these
institutional initiatives, environmental problems became more severe due to lack of adequate action on the
ground. Within the context of The Gambia's structural adjustment program and against this background of
intensifying environmental degradation the GOTG agreed to develop a National Environmental Action
Plan. After completing a highly participatory preparation process, under the auspices of the National
Environmental Management Council (NEMC) and with high-level Government support, the Ganbia
Environmental Action Plan (GEAP) was finalized and approved by Cabinet in July 1992. The GEAP,
which was held up as a model for other countries, was presented to the donor community at a Roundtable
in Banjul in January 1993. The Govemment rapidly began implementing recommendations of the GEAP,
beginning with the creation (effective July 1993) of a new National Environment Agency (NEA) directly
under the Office of the President, into which the old Environment Unit was folded. Under the National
Environmental Management Act (1987, 1994) NEA was established as the body responsible for
coordination, facilitation, and promotion of environmental management efforts in the country.
With the key elements in place, IDA agreed to support GEAP implementation in coordination with other
donors (namely GTZ, USAlD, UNDP, and UNSO). Since GEAP activities were conceived as an
integrated program, irrespzctive of source of funding, the coordinated approach initially adopted by the key
donors was appropriate. IDA and GTZ specifically focused on providing national level institutional
support to the NEA and its GEAP collaborators to enable fulfillment of the coordination and regulatory
roles as defined in the GEAP. USAID and UNDP funding complemented this with capacity building and
resource management activities that reached down to the local level.
Although GTZ and IDA decided to jointly finance the GEAP institutional capacity development
sub-program, the two projects were nevertheless packaged separately using parallel financing mechanisms
and relying on specific cross-referenced performance related conditions, particularly in the area of EIA, to
link them. Thus, this ICR focuses primarily on the implementation of the IDA Credit, although where
appropriate linkages with the broader GEAP implementation program of which it forms a part, and the
GTZ Gambia-German Environmental Management Project (GGEMP) in particular, will be discussed.
The IDA Project objective was clear. Its focus on institutional strengthening and capacity building for
environmental management was, and continues to be, appropriate, and responds to the Govemment's
environmental policy and institutional framework objectives. The objective was also consistent with the
Bank's CAS which focused more broadly on institutional capacity building.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The overall GEAP institutional capacity development sub-program highlighted ten (10) components, for
which the World Bank financed CBEM Project took the lead on 6 components and GTZ, via a parallel
project, addressed the remaining four. World Bank funded components included:
1. Institutional supportfor the coordination of the GEAP (US$1. 22M), through both support for
NEA to develop its operational (administrative and technical) capacity by financing equipment,
training and targeted technical assistance; as well as the provision of associated training in
environmental management for staff of sector agencies and private sector operators, through
short-term practical attachments or workshops;
2. GEAP monitoring and policy development (US$0. 295M), to support both the development of
capacity to monitor, evaluate and report on GEAP implementation, as well as efforts to reorient
existing sectoral policies and/or develop new policies, in accordance with the overall environmental
policies elaborated in the GEAP;
3. Environmental education and public awareness (US$0. 405M), to support the development of a
strategy to increase public awareness of environmental issues and support for electronic and print
media campaigns, using existing government and NGO skills and capacities;
4. Monitoring of environmental quality (US$0.515M), to support the development of a system to
collection information and monitor environmental quality against agreed threshold levels;
5. Environmental information management (US$0.34M), to finance the development and
implementation of an environmental information strategy according to a distributed model
including common information architecture, basic information infrastructure, maintenance of key
data sets and analytical capabilities; and
6. Contingency planning and disaster preparedness (US$0.1 25M), to develop a disaster awareness
and contingency planning system.
GTZ funding (US$1.3M) was provided through the Gambia-German Environmental Management Project
(GGEMP) and initially addressed: (a) environmental legislative reform, (b) Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), (c) establishment of a documentation center, and (d) publication of an environmental
newsletter. GTZ also became involved with the production of land use maps after the premature
termination of the USAID program in The Gambia.
The collaborative and programmatic approach initially adopted by the key donors was consistent with the
Bank's strategy for environmental support programs, although it was not sustained throughout project
implementation. Viewed in the broad context of GEAP implementation, the IDA/GTZ institutional
capacity development sub-program was sound and complemented USAID and UNDP local level efforts
well.
The IDA project itself was well conceived. Project components and cross-conditionalities with the GTZ
project were reasonably related to achieving the Project and GEAP sub-program objectives. Key steps
towards establishment of an institutional framework for environmental management were covered and the
proposed multi-agency, collaborative approach was appropriate. Design was consistent with the Bank's
strategy for institution and capacity building for environmental management. Lessons leamed from other
capacity-building projects, as well as Gambian specific experience, were incorporated into Project design.
To minimize institutional and financial risks the Project focused strongly on the establishment of
management capacity and processes in the newly created NEA. Emphasis was also placed on increasing
local capacity through the provision of targeted short-term technical assistance as opposed to substituting it
with long-term technical assistance.
-3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
An assessment of the Bank's Quality Assurance Group is not available. The ICR rates the quality at entry
as satisfactory. The ICR found the organizational model being reinforced through the Project to be
appropriate to the Gambian context. The Project objective was and remains compatible with Government
priorities and the Bank's CAS. The design supported the stated objectives, and complied with the Bank's
safeguard policies. Risks to the Project were mostly identified and addressed in design, in particular those
posed by weak implementation capacity in the newly established lead institution, NEA. Strong emphasis
was placed on stakeholder participation and ownership. However, this broader ownership could have been
further enhanced by defining more clearly the roles, responsibilities and resources allocated for NEA's
collaborating agencies. In the absence of these, NEA, established primarily to promote, facilitate and
coordinate activities, had limited means to ensure that the designated collaborating implementation agencies
adhered to agreed timetables. An associated weakness, identifiable only with hindsight, is that the length of
time required to establish a highly participatory system for environmental coordination was underestimated
by both NEA and its collaborators.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcomne/achievement of objective:
The immediate development objectives of this project have been achieved, and the overall assessment of the
Project is satisfactory. Despite implementation delays due to administrative and financial deficiencies, the
newly created national environmental coordination agency (NEA) is now operational, and is more
competent to discharge its responsibilities. There is considerably more awareness of The Gambia's
environmental problems, particularly in urban areas. In retrospect, the Government feels that the
preparation and the first phase of GEAP implementation have amply demonstrated the benefits of
participatory planning. The GISIEIS will provide, for the first time, accurate information for development
planning. NEA has produced the first "State of the Environment" Report, providing a foundation for such
reports in the future. A monitoring, environmental quality and evaluation strategy was developed and
adopted. Primary, secondary and tertiary schools are integrating environmental studies into their curricula.
NEA enjoys credibility and respect among government agencies and the general public. Radio, television
and newspapers are doing their share to raise public awareness and concern about environmental problems
such as waste management or water and air quality.
4.2 Outputs bv components:
Component 1. Institutional Support for the Coordination of GEAP Implementation
Successful implementation of the GEAP depends upon both a fully functioning NEA as well as competent
line implementing agencies. Thus this component focused on institutional and human resource capacity
building in NEA and the technical line ministries. The component aimed to (a) put in place a management
information system (MIS) in NEA to monitor its performance and efficiency in terms of use of staff, funds
and equipment, (b) provide NEA staff with equipment and skills to fulfill agency functions, and (c)
strengthen institutional and/or human resource capacity in NEA collaborating institutions, including not
only key implementing agencies but also the private sector and NGOs. Most of the component's objectives
were achieved. The institutional framework for the environmental management and coordination has been
considerably strengthened through the Project. Technical training of NEA staff has improved skill levels,
- 4 -



and most NEA professional staff see themselves as more competent and effective in their jobs than when
they first joined the Agency. For these reasons the outcome of the component is rated as satisfactory. This
should not, however, be allowed to conceal the implementation weaknesses of this component, particularly
the failure to provide NEA with efficient and fully functional administrative and financial management
systems, as well as the ad hoc and overly NEA centric implementation of the training program.
Institutional Strengthening For Environmental Management. Environmental focal points were to be
established in the collaborating line agencies to institutionalize links with NEA. This approach has not
worked well, due primarily to a frequent and unpredictable turnover of line department staff, and a lack of
effective follow-up by both NEA and line agencies. However, organization of operational activities within
a framework of "networks" and "Working Groups" (WG) has been more successful.
Working Groups in particular have provided a practical forum for information sharing, communication,
and coordination. They have become the principal coordination instruments among participating
institutions. Organized along programmatic lines, their membership is broad-based and includes staff from
institutions with different, but complementary mandates. The ten WGs correspond to GEAP programmatic
areas. Their design allows the sector institutions to take the lead in analyzing, formulating and
implementing their respective programs and policies, with NEA providing the forum for coordination and
performing secretariat functions. The concept of WGs as the focal point for coordination has been
satisfactory to both NEA and collaborating agencies. Nevertheless, the effectiveness of the WG concept is
being compromised by the inconsistency of institutional representation on the WGs, Due to conflicting
schedules and commitments, different representatives are often sent to WG meetings. The individuals
assigned to attend the meetings are not always technically competent in the WG subject matter and/or
prepared to discuss agenda items. Environmental management training for more line agency staff is needed
to "level the playing field". It is also necessary to develop a system that fosters consistency and continuity
of WG membership and partnership.
Human Resource Capacity Building. NEA training corresponded loosely to a Training Needs
Assessment prepared by an international consultant in mid-1995. It did not, however, adequately take into
account the needs of the project, and much of the training was subsequently identified in an ad hoc manner.
A Human Resources Development Plan developed for NEA by national consultants was deemed not
satisfactory and thus not implemented. In some cases, key staff left the country for long-term degree
programs funded by other projects. Their absence was partially responsible for implementation delays.
With respect to human resource capacity building in the technical implementing agencies, opportunities for
skill building were provided, however, the forums chosen, e.g., workshops, were not always the most
appropriate mechanism for ensuring skill transfer. GEAP collaborators felt that NEA gave priority to
intensive training of NEA staff at the expense of the technical staff of implementing departments or NGOs,
whereby making effective collaboration more difficult.
NEA strengthening. Most NEA staff received computer literacy and management training under the
Project. NEA also recruited an Information Technician (IT) who provides fiurther on-the-job computer
training. All equipment and supplies financed under the Project have been procured. Nevertheless, despite
substantial emphasis in Project design, NEA's project management system at Project closure does not
monitor Agency performance and efficiency in terms of the use of staff, funds, and equipment, nor in terms
of programming and monitoring of activities. An international consultant prepared a Management
Information System (MIS) for NEA's consideration; however, NEA rejected it as too complex and time
consuming. Key NEA staff received training in administration and in project management, however, no
alternative MIS was developed for NEA other than a computerized accounting system, which albeit late,
has been installed and is now being efficiently utilized. Similarly, while use of individual and program
annual work plans has improved, more management skills are required at almost all levels. In the absence
- 5 -



of a functioning MIS and specifically a staff evaluation system, it has not been possible to assess the
impact of training on job performance.
Component 2. GEAP Monitoring and Policy Development
This component focused on increasing capacity within NEA to monitor, evaluate and report on GEAP
implementation and on assisting sectoral agencies to align their policies with GEAP principles. Overall
progress made under this component was satisfactory.
Monitoring. NEA established a system to monitor and assess GEAP implementation. Data collected for
the monitoring system provides information in all areas of GEAP implementation and can be used for both
improving on-going activities, and for providing information for periodic evaluations of the GEAP. The
sectors included in the monitoring program are: forestry, soil conservation, fish stock management, wildlife
management, livestock management, coastal zone management, water resources, energy, mineral resources
management, agricultural production, and public health/population. The GEAP Monitoring WG is chaired
by one of the technical agencies. NEA is the group's secretariat and provides coordination and technical
supervision. The initial data collected served as a baseline for the first "State of the Environment" Report
published in 1997. The next report and those produced thereafter will be based on the data generated by
the new Monitoring and Assessment system. It was agreed that it was more appropriate to prepare these
reports at 5 yearly intervals, instead of annually as originally envisioned.
Policy Development. Performance of the policy development sub-component was not satisfactory. Under
the Project, NEA was to assist line ministries in their efforts to analyze and reorient sector policies, in light
of their impact on the environment and natural resources. The Project did not accomplish this objective.
Although 10 policy studies were commissioned by NEA, with support from the relevant WG, their quality
was extremely poor and therc was limited buy-in from the relevant sectoral agencies. With the exception of
the Forestry Department, the sector line departments did not undertake a systematic review of existing
policies. Nonetheless, Gambia's Wildlife Policy is under review. A National Enviromnental Policy (NEP)
is not yet in place. NRM policy reform was one of the main objectives of the USAID ANR project.
USAID's departure following the military takeover left a major gap which has yet to be filled, and
momentum for policy work vas lost. The situation was exacerbated by an absence of policy analysis
capacity in NEA, the technical agencies, as well as in the local private sector following the military coup in
1994. This, combined with an apparent reluctance to draw on international expertise limited effective
policy analysis.
Component 3. Environmental Education and Communication (EEC)
This component provided support to NEA to fulfill its mandate to educate the public on environmental
issues, including raising awareness of the GEAP and NEA itself. Progress in this area has been
satisfactory, and most targets outlined in the SAR have been achieved. Although startup was delayed
because of the absence of the component coordinator who went away on training during the first year, a
sound foundation for EEC activities is now in place. An EEC strategy, facilitated and coordinated by
NEA, with broad participation from concemed departments (EEC WG) and assistance from an
international specialist, was prepared in 1995 and updated in 1998. Progress has been made towards the
integration of EE into primary and secondary schools; EE syllabi have been prepared for grades 1-9.
With the involvement of the four schools of Gambia College, significant progress was achieved in the
production of an EE Teachers Resource Book. Gambia College has developed an EE curriculum and will
offer an introductory environmental course to all students at Gambia College next year. NEA's EE
program is playing a major role in promoting and supporting the integration of EE in the formal education
system at various levels at different institutions. Several local and international NGOs have also worked
- 6 -



with the Ministry of State for Education in the development of environmental curriculum and preparation
of teaching materials for the secondary and tertiary school systems.
NEA completed in 1998 the publication and distribution of a popular version of the GEAP in English,
Arabic and three local languages. Other activities included awareness campaigns at the national, regional,
and divisional levels. Divisional and district EEC workshops were organized.
NEA uses the media to create public awareness of environmental problems. Environmental issues have
been discussed in the newspapers and on the radio. An environmental awareness survey conducted in 1999
indicates that media campaigns have had some impact on attitudes. While it is too early to measure impact
on behavior with confidence, this survey will serve as a baseline for future assessments. The full range of
resources available for environmental awareness (i.e. posters, videos, and television) is currently
underutilized.
Component 4. Monitoring of Environmental Quality and Enforcement (MEQ&E)
This component was designed to increase NEA's capacity to fulfill its mandate to both monitor
environmental quality and enforce environmental standards. It supported the design and implementation of
a monitoring and reporting system and the creation of an inspectorate to follow up on environmental
violations. Progress to date in these regards is considered satisfactory. The component strengthened
NEA's capacity to develop and enforce environmental standards and regulations. NEA, in collaboration
with responsible technical agencies, has designed an effective environmental quality reporting and
monitoring system, particularly for water quality, air pollution, and solid waste. An Inspectorate has been
created to increase the Agency's capacity to take action against specific environmental violations. A
MEQ&E strategy was developed and adopted. The capacity of monitoring institutions was strengthened
through training in monitoring and lab techniques and the provision of laboratory equipment. NEA's
Inspectorate has four trained inspectors. Air quality monitoring is operational; however, water quality
monitoring is delayed due to frequent lack of fuel. Enforcement mechanisms have been established, and
"Environmental quality standards regulations" and "Environmental discharges permitting regulations" have
been adopted. The capacity of Inspectors to act and respond to violations has been strengthened. An
Inspector's Manual spelling out enforcement procedures and code of conduct is in final draft. However,
NEA's current shortage of financial resources is threatening the sustainability of the monitoring network.
Component expenditures did not follow appraisal projections. Contracts for monitoring services were
originally intended to include equipment purchase costs. During implementation it was determined to be
more efficient for NEA to purchase the equipment directly. The equipment was then provided to the
relevant monitoring agency under a Memorandum of Understanding that included their meeting NEA's
monitoring requirements. Although this contributed to a significant expenditure category reallocation for
the Project, in fact, it did not reflect a fundamental change in concept nor activity.
Component 5. Environment Information Management
Implementation of the GEAP requires reference data, both geographic and thematic, to serve as support to
NEA technical functions. Various aspects of environment information management have been supported
by the participating donor agencies. The IDA Credit, designed to complement other donor activities, aimed
to initially reinforce and subsequently continue UNSO support to establish a multi-sector EIS Working
Group. The WG coordinated the development and implementation of an EIS strategy, guidelines and
priority activities, as well as efforts to improve national capability to conduct spatial analysis through EIS
awareness building and training. Implementation of this component is rated satisfactory.
Five data centers have been created in key institutions, including the Departments of Lands and Surveys,
the Department of Water Resources, the Department of Central Statistics, the Department of Agricultural
- 7 -



Planning, and the Department of Agricultural Services (Soil and Water Management Unit), and are now
operational. Several of these have been successful at attracting further financing for their activities.
Selected data center personnel and key NEA staff were trained in GIS/EIS. More data centers are planned
in the future if funding becomes available.
Not all officials in the line agencies were initially convinced of the usefulness of EIS/GIS and did not
consider this a priority. They were reluctant to commit additional staff time or resources for this activity.
However, NEA's EIS team's well-planned and effective demonstrations convinced the decision-makers of
the potential use of EIS/GIS. All the data centers reported a high degree of satisfaction with the assistance
provided by NEA.
Component 6. Contingency Planning and Emergency Preparedness
In line with NEA's mandate to prepare contingency plans and strategies, this component provided for the
preparation of a set of contingency plans and network mechanisms to mitigate the effects of the major
potential environmental disasters that could affect The Gambia. Design and implementation of this
component is rated as satisfactory. Contingency Planning and Disaster Preparedness has been strengthened
and Response Plans prepared for various types of potential disasters, such as: offshore oil spills, drought,
collapsing buildings, floods, air crashes, roadside tanker spillage, bush fires and ferry sinking. A generic
emergency response plan has also been prepared. A simulation exercise was conducted for a ferry sinking,
which provided usefil insights into critical organizational and communication networks required for
emergency preparedness.
Complementary Donor Achievements
The integrated programmatic approach adopted by the donors for GEAP implementation allowed certain
synergies to be maximized. Thus, while not directly financed through the IDA project, the following
outcomes and achievements are considered particularly noteworthy. They have been enabled or augmented
by exploiting the synergies and complementarities between this and other GEAP projects.
Environmental Impact Assessment (ELM). The establishment of an EIA process, supported by GTZ, was
a cross-conditionality for the IDA Credit. It is now operational, although two years behind schedule. EIA
guidelines and procedures were developed, approved, and distributed. All new development projects
planned for The Gambia must be submitted for review and environmental classification. Class "A" projects
must undergo a full EIA. Guidelines for industry, tourism, waste management, agriculture and natural
resources, and fisheries have been prepared, published, and widely distributed. Others are under
preparation. The EIA WG prepared terms of reference for EIAs carried out thus far. The WG also
analyzes the assessments and reviews mitigation plans. NEA then advises the NEMC, which has final
decision-making authority. Several training programs and workshops for the public and private sectors
have been conducted to increase awareness about EIA requirements and procedures. While these have had
an impact, further educational efforts are needed. Additional staff will be needed to manage the increasing
workload as EIA becomes more widely applied.
Environmental Education and Communication. The IDA supported EEC strategy, educational and
awareness raising activities were complemented by UNDP supported local-level activities. About 15 local
and intemational NGOs are conducting village non-formal EEC assisted by NEA supervised authorities,
focusing on the Northem Division.
In addition, UNDP's Capacity 21 Prograrn UNDP supported the introduction in 1995 of a national
"Environmental Awards Scheme" (EAS), an innovative activity for the enhancement of public
environmental awareness. The EAS highlights sound environmental practices in various categories that
have been carried out by groups or individuals. Competitions are held at the divisional level, and winners
- 8 -



go on to compete at the national level. The Scheme is given wide publicity in the media and draws
countrywide interest. Environmental awareness has been enhanced throughout the country. UNDP has
conducted an evaluation of the EAS and is satisfied with the results. However it is expensive, and its
sustainability is questionable.
GTZ supported the publication of five issues of the environmental newsletter, which were distributed to a
wide audience.
Monitoring of Environmental Quality and Enforcement. Directly complementing efforts under the IDA
Credit to enable NEA to monitor environmental quality and enforce environmental standards, a waste
management legislation study was completed under the GTZ project and a first draft of the legislation has
been completed. In addition, GTZ supported the adoption of a "Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides
Control Act" (1994), and the responsibility for controlling pesticides and hazardous chemicals now rests
with NEA. A control unit was established in NEA and a Registrar of Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticides
appointed. The Unit issues licenses to anyone selling hazardous chemicals. A number of dangerous
chemicals have been banned by the Act and pernits are required for the import of pesticides. Pesticides
Inspectors, often agricultural extension agents working on a part-time basis, have been appointed througho
ut the country, and are paid a small cash incentive. Unfortunately, NEA's current shortage of financial
resources is threatening the sustainability of the monitoring network.
Environment Information Management. In addition, to the 5 data centers established under the IDA
financed activities, equipment acquired by the Government from the USAID's ANR project was transferred
to NEA, and a small EIS/GIS unit was established and staffed. GTZ provided follow-up funding to
complete land use maps initiated under USAID's ANR Project when the project was prematurely
terminated as a result of the 1994 Coup. With the completed maps the EIS/GIS Unit is more effective in
communicating the impact of various environmental and natural resource practices.
4.3 ANet Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A detailed cost benefit or rate of return calculations was not performed.
4.4 Finiancial rate of return:
A detailed cost benefit or rate of return calculations was not performed.
4.5 Institutional developnment impact:
The institutional development impact is considered modest. Prior to the project NEA existed only on paper,
now there is a functional institution in place. Investment in technical, administrative and financial training
has improved the capacity of a significant number of professionals that will benefit The Gambia, whether
they remain in government or migrate to private sector, NGOs or other projects. The establishment of
collaborative working groups has strengthening NEA's capacity to fulfill its mandate and enhanced the
environment management potential within the country. However, it does remains to be seen if these
working groups can be effectively converted from forums for information sharing, discussion and
coordination, into concrete management instruments. Perhaps the key institutional development impact is
the introduction of EIA regulations and guidelines, and related capacity building investments financed
under GTZ project and the key cross-conditionality of the IDA Credit. Application of this tool will make a
significant contribution to the investment decision and development planning decisions of the country.
-9-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Military Takeover of July 1994. The military overthrow of the former regime in July 1994 resulted in a
temporary suspension of World Bank operations and the permanent withdrawal of USAID from The
Gambia. The suspension of World Bank operations resulted in a 6 month delay in project effectiveness.
The withdrawal of USAID had a more significant impact on GEAP implementation overall and the IDA
project in particular due to the premature termination of its Agriculture and Natural Resources (ANR)
Project. Environmental policy reform and the development of a GIS system were the two IDA Credit
program objectives that were particularly affected by USAID's withdrawal. Environmental awareness
raising activities to be conducted via agricultural extension agents under the ANR project were also
curtailed, to the detriment of the EEC objectives.
Indirectly, the coup increased political uncertainty and, hence, political sensitivity. This negatively affected
implementation. Some of NEA's staff ware required to participate in commissions investigating
corruption. NEA was also less forceful in bringing polemic issues into the public arena opting for a more
gradual long-term approach to environmental problem solving. Moreover, several technically qualified
individuals are believed to have left the country and not retumed, aggravating the shortage of qualified
professionals able to provide consultancy support to Project activities.
5.2 Factors gernerallv subject to government control:
Inactive National Environment Management Council (NEMC). This high-level Council was created
under the NEMA to approve all environmental policies, adopt environmental standards, guidelines and
regulations proposed by NEA, and supervise the Agency. However, the NEMC was inactive from 1994 to
1999. While NEA continued to operate throughout this period, high level political support was
significantly diminished. As a result, it was difficult for NEA to communicate with top decision-makers
about the seriousness of environmental problems and their potential economic impact.
Insufficient Incentives. While NEA is a semi-autonomous agency, the Government takes full
responsibility for staff salar es. To attract qualified personnel, NEA was accorded a 50% salary premium
over civil service scales. rhis became less meaningful overtime as civil servants received periodic pay
raises for which NEA personnel were ineligible. Qualified personnel, particularly for the
financial/administrative section, were difficult to recruit given the competitive wages available in the
private sector. Furthermore NEA senior staff were attracted by considerably higher salaries offered by
other donor- financed programs or projects (i.e. Bank and IFAD). Under the present structure, the staffs
upward mobility is severely limited. It should be noted, however, that despite this declining financial
incentives, most of the staff has remained in place.
5.3 Factors generallv subject to implementing agenev control:
Project Management. Forward planning and integrated activity scheduling were a problem both for the
Project and for the GEAP program as a whole. NEA hired an intemational consultant to design a
Management Information System (MIS), to facilitate integrated management of all GEAP activities.
However, the proposal did not fulfill requirements and consequently was not adopted by NEA.
Annual human resource management plans, work plans and schedules of consultant's recruitment with draft
terms of reference were not prepared as was envisaged in the DCA, Article IIL Section 3.04 (b). Failure to
follow an integrated annual work plan, both for the Project and GEAP implementation activities, gave rise
to over programming of staff time, resulting in implementation delays. Consultants were employed by
NEA to prepare an integrated work plan following the mid-term review, but the results were not fully
implemented.
- 10 -



Initially, inexperience with procurement procedures, combined with the absence of "prior review"
thresholds, contributed to delays that frustrated both the Bank and the Borrower. Additionally, the lack of
standard procurement operating procedures resulted in requests being frequently sent to the Bank for "
non-objection" by coordinators/program officers instead of being routed through an effective administration
system. Replacement and training of the project administrator, a year and a half into implementation in
December 1996, significantly improved procurement efficiency, but did not fully resolve the problem.
Training. The training sub-component was not satisfactorily implemented. A training needs assessment
and subsequent Hurnan Resources Development Plan were prepared with the help of an international
consultant, but NEA considered the proposals inadequate. Instead arrangements for training were handled
mostly on an ad hoc basis by NEA Management. Neither the content nor the results of the training were
scrutinized, and the choice of training programs was often left to the individual staff. This did not in all
cases ensure that the training content would fit the needs of the Agency or that the training would have a
positive impact on work performance.
Furthermore, the Project was expected to provide access to training in environmental management to staff
from collaborating institutions, NGOs and the private sector. Instead, training focused primarily on NEA
personnel to the expressed disappointment of line agency staff.
Certain key staff underwent out-of-country training for extended periods (financed by other projects) and
effective coverage for their programs was in some cases inadequate. This was further exacerbated by a
chronic shortage of NEA staff, delayed hiring decisions, and an insufficient number of qualified local
consultants from upon which to draw additional human resources.
Donor Coordination. NEA should have insisted on better donor coordination. The initial assumption was
that NEA would manage support from all donors as an integrated program, with each donor's activities
having common and/or complementary objectives. Despite these initial intentions, NEA's facilitation of
information exchange and coordination of donor teams and activities was weak. Joint supervision missions
were uncommon and, critically, efforts to develop an integrated work plan were unsuccessful in becoming
an operational management tool.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The cost estimate of the IDA/GTZ institutional capacity building sub-prograrn at appraisal was US$ 4.5
million over 3 years, of which IDA was to commit US$ 2.6 million (including US$ 0.3 million to refinance
the PPF), GTZ US$ 1.3 million and GOTG US$ 0.6 million. IDA's commitment covered approximately
60% of total sub-program costs and included 100% financing of consultant services, training, and goods
procured to support implementation of the 6 IDA components. The GOTG financed 100% of the
incremental operating costs associated with the IDA components. Information on GTZ project costs and
financing was managed separately.
Overall, financing was more than sufficient. The Credit closed with slightly more than US$ 0.46 million
(17.4%) remaining undisbursed, despite the project time frame being extended from three to four a half
years. The Government's actual contributions for incremental operational costs are estimated to have met
the initial objective of $0.6 M. An increase in the funds allocated for goods occurred primarily in three
components: institutional support (Component 1), monitoring of environmental quality and enforcement
(Component 4), and environmental information management (Component 5). This increase was supported
through the transfer of funds allocated for consultancy services to the equipment expenditure category. In
the case of Component 1, the increase resulted from the need to upgrade computers purchased during the
PPF phase, following project extension to July 1999. In the case of Components 4 and 5, the reallocation
did not reflect a fundamental change in concept nor activity as equipment costs had previously been
- 11 -



subsumed in the relevant consultancy services.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabilit rating:
Sustainability of the Project is rated as likely. Technical and institutional advances made as a result of the
capacity building efforts is expected to have lasting impacts. At the close of the IDA Credit, a National
Environmental Agency was established and operational. Furthermore, key baseline data and mechanisms
for environmental management have been put in place. The technical capabilities of staff in NEA and
several GEAP collaborators has been enhanced and, even taking into account any mobility between civil
service, private sector and NGOs, is likely to continue to benefit The Gambia. This is greatly enhanced by
the popular and successful establishment of thematic working groups, which draw upon qualified
individuals irrespective of their place of employment.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
While in the short term NEA is financially sustainable because GOTG funds all staff salaries and limited
operating costs, there is some doubt about NEA, as originally envisioned, remaining operationally
sustainable without additional Government and/or donor support. Through experience gained during
Project implementation, GOTG recognizes that while NEA's coordinating role is indispensable, certain
GEAP activities promoted as NEA responsibilities during the Project are in fact not core responsibilities
for such a coordinating body. Thus, NEA plans to revisit the organizational structure of the Agency,
refocusing its activities and responsibilities. This will be done within the parameters spelled out in NEMA
to carry out certain regulatory functions (i.e. EIA, Environmental Quality, EIS/GIS) and is expected to
further enhance the sustainability of the institutional framework established by the Project and reduce
dependence on extemal financial support. With respect to non-core Project activities, UNDP's Capacity 21
(as the main remaining active donor) will provide some bridge financing to help mainstream them in line
agencies (e.g. Environmental Education). In addition to UNDP Capacity 21 support, the Bank is preparing
a Coastal and Marine Biodiversity Management Medium Sized Project for GEF financing.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project identification and preparation was satisfactory. The UNSO and
Bank supported GEAP process was recognized as an example of "best practice". Based on the GEAP and
in active collaboration with key donor partners, namely, GTZ, USAID, AfDB, UNSO and UNDP), the
Project was rapidly identified. It's support of key institutional and human resource capacity building
aspects of the GEAP was fully consistent with the Govemment's overall development strategy and
environmental priorities. The Project's emphasis on institutional capacity building was fully consistent with
the strategy outlined in the Bank's CAS.
The Bank's performance at appraisal was satisfactory although inclusion of an administrative/procurement
specialist on the team would have been advantageous. Appraisal of many key factors including
Government commitment, Project design, risks, lending instrument, consistency with safeguard policies,
implementation plan, key indicator identification and inclusion of lessons learned was adequate. However,
the appraisal team underestimated the time necessary to: (a) develop effective implementation managerial
and administrative capacity in a new agency, staffed with inexperienced professionals, and (b) to
successfully implement the Project's highly participatory and collaborative approach. The Project,
originally planned to be implemented within a 3 year time frame took four and a half years to reach
- 12-



completion. While these delays were the result of several factors, some beyond the NEA's control, the
appraisal underestimated the impact of NEA's weak implementation capacity, exacerbated further by their
inexperience with World Bank procedures.
The evaluation of incentives for Project implementation was adequate in the prevailing institutional context,
if a little naive. The rapid adoption and implementation of the GEAP were taken as strong indications of
govemment commitment. It was reasonable to expect the highly participatory GEAP process to lead
naturally into a highly collaborative implementation process. Retrospectively, incorporation of more
concrete and well-defined incentives to secure participation of collaborating institutions would have been
beneficial. Similarly, donor coordination was strong at the time of appraisal and the expectation that the
Project would be implemented as part of an integrated program of activities managed by NEA was
reasonable. The Gambia was one of the first countries to design and implement an environment support
program and thus had no road map to follow. Subsequent experience has demonstrated that inherent donor
competition for scarce human resources frequently undermines project implementation in the environmental
sector. The Gambian GEMP was no exception. NEA's capacity and/or incentive for ensuring an
integrated programmatic approach proved to be inadequate.
The Bank overestimated the capacity and quantity of the Gambian technicians available to staff and/or
serve as consults to NEA. Staff vacancies went unfilled for notable periods, while efforts to utilize local
private sector consultants revealed a lack of capacity across technical and skills areas. Equally, qualified
technical staff of GEAP collaborating agencies were in short supply and high demand.
Finally, it is probably unrealistic to expect a project whose principal objective is capacity- and
institution-building for a new agency, staffed with inexperienced individuals, to implement complex project
components in three years. It would have been more realistic to allow an implementation period of five
years.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance has been satisfactory. A review of PSRs indicates that supervision missions were
carried out on a timely basis, and that problems were correctly identified. Suggestions to correct these
problems were not always heeded by the Borrower. The skills mix was generally appropriate. However,
since the primary focus of the Project was capacity building and institutional development, the periodic
inclusion during the entire project cycle of a human resources development specialist and an institutional
specialist would have been useful.
The lack of procurement threshold made it necessary for IDA to give a "non-objection" for all expenditures
from the credit. It would have been more efficient and less tedious if a minimum amount had been set
below which the Borrower could have proceeded without contacting the Bank. A review of the Statement
of Expenditures could then have been done during the next supervision mission. Although the Bank
suggested during the mid-term review that GOTG request an amendment to the DCA introducing a
procurement threshold, the Project was already nearing closure by the time this was done.
Critical supervision missions should have been conducted in collaboration with GTZ and UNDP, especially
since each of the donors many of the activities had overlapping elements. While attempts were made to
coordinate supervisory missions, such overlap only occasionally occurred as each of the donors was
working according to a different timetable.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
The Bank's performance is rated satisfactory
- 13-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Govemment's performance during preparation was highly satisfactory. The GEAP preparation
process is regarded as an example of "best practice". The subsequent leadership and drive demonstrated
through Government's rapid organization of a donor roundtable to secure implementation financing, as well
as the immediate carrying out of the recommendation to establish the NEA were good indicators of national
commitment. Identification and preparation of the IDA project was both timely and well presented.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
Government met its obligations vis-a-vis NEA's staff costs and incremental operating costs. However,
NEMC was inactive for the duration of the Project, reducing visibility of Project activities and undermining
impact.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
NEA's performance, with some notable exceptions, was satisfactory. The operational aspects of project
implementation, while slower than anticipated, were generally successful. Regarding project management,
NEA performed poorly in financial and administrative management, as key management tools and plans
were either not developed or proposed tools were not accepted by NEA. Other deficiencies compounded
the problems: the accounting system was not in place quickly enough; significant delays occurred in filling
key positions; and a lack of planning slowed procurement. Nonetheless, regular financial audits were
prepared and were mainly satisfactory. From the environmental management standpoint, the Agency is
functioning well and is considered an asset by the Government. The coordination methodology was well
planned and is satisfactory to all participating agencies and the private sector. There is a much-improved
level of competence for environmental management at the national level. NEA is now in a better position to
assist improving local capacity for environment management at the divisional level and below.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Time Frame, budget and lending instrument. Environmental capacity building is complex. Furthermore,
establishing a new environmental management institution and the necessary collaborative structures, in a
context where there was little or no previous experience, or trained staff, is difficult and time-consuming.
In the past the Bank approach has favored stand alone operations with limited financing such as this one.
Given the typically weak in-country base, it was suggested that it would be more appropriate to start with a
larger operation and extend it over a longer timeframe. Thus, an APL may be a more appropriate lending
instrument than a stand alone project.
Donor Coordination. The importance of sustaining donor coordination cannot be over emphasized. While
cognizant of the importance of Govemment ownership of program activities, the donor community should
recognize that national institutions may not always have sufficient capacity or interest to ensure effective
donor coordination when faced with the realities of implementation. This can lead to an inefficient
allocation of human resources and funds as different donor initiatives compete for attention.
Human Resource Capacity Building. Staff training should be considered a priority in any capacity
building project. A training needs assessment should be conducted as early as possible. Based on this
- 14 -



assessment, a manpower development plan should be prepared by training specialists. Considering NEA's
diverse training needs, responsibility for implementing and managing staff training should rest with a
full-time qualified training officer.
Workshops are an excellent means for disseminating information, and results of workshops should be
published and publicly made available. This is especially true in environmental activities. Workshops
have marginal value, however, as a means of training and strengthening capacity of staff. The project held
an excessive number of workshops. Funds invested in many of the workshops would have had better
results if they had been focused on short-term, well directed, local training aimed at strengthening staff
capability.
Implementation Capacity. First, for timely implementation, a strong administrative system must be
established within the implementing agency and remain fully staffed throughout. The administrative office
should include adequate back-up staff, not only in administration but also in finance. This would allow the
units to function and at the same time permit staff to receive rotational short-term local training without
disrupting the administrative/financial daily operations.
Second, the complexity of a project and the number of components should be tailored to a careful appraisal
of existing management capacity, not only of the lead agency, but of the collaborating institutions as well.
It is preferable to phase in new activities over time, as the agency gains experience.
Third, projects need active and effective implementation leadership. Considerable emphasis is often placed
during project start up on initiating activities that will lead to the achievement of tangible results. As a
result, a comprehensive understanding of basic management and administrative functions administration
and systems requirements is typically overlooked. As an alternative approach, prior to any financing being
made available, the implementing agency should develop an overall plan of action. Thereafter, the
implementing agency should prepare detailed work plans, procurement plans, a schedule of consultants
with the appropriate terms of reference, and a list of proposed studies at appraisal and annually thereafter.
During this time, if the implementing agency does not have the capacity to complete this planning exercise,
the proposed work plan must reflect the need for training in these areas, and a realistic allocation of time
and resources must be spelled out. Experience shows that it is not sufficient to assume that capacity will
be built as time goes on, as workloads become overwhelming and administrative/management functions are
often pushed to the side. Furtherrnore, it is necessary to take into account local cultural organizational and
management pattems as well as the prevailing bureaucratic environment when designing management
systems.
Fourth, Bank's intervention should be reduced to an absolute minimum. Preparing and mutually agreeing
to a Manual of Operating Procedures (MOP) at negotiations should clearly identify the duties and
responsibilities of each section of the Borrower's implementing organization. Procurement procedures and
prior review limits would be included in the MOP.
- 15-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowerimplernenting agency:
REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
CAPACITY BUILDING FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
Prepared by Momodou Cham and Momodou Sarr
1.0    INTRODUCTION
The program was prepared to support economic and social development while trying to ensure the
long-term sustainability of the limited natural resource base within the country. Through support from the
program, this was to be achieved by providing direct support to the implementation of the Gambia
Environmental Action Plan (GEAP) from 1993, after Cabinet adopted it in 1992.
Bilateral agreements between the Bank and Gambia Government on the priorities to be attached to the
various functions of the NEA were also reflected in the design of the program. Within the framework of
the GEAP implementation, other sector-specific interventions being financed by IDA and other donors,
were also supposed to benefit directly from project support through the establishment of standards and
guidelines, the collection and dissemination of information and institutional support guidance.
2.0    PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The project consisted of six major components:
(a)  Institutional Supportfor Coordination of GEAP Implementation to support the NEA develop its
operational capacity by financing equipment, training and targeted technical assistance. The
development of management and technical skills in NEA and the provision of associated training in
environmental management for staff of sector agencies and private sector operators, through
short-term practical attachments or workshops were a part of this component.
(b)  GEAP Monitoring and Policy Development to re-orient the existing sectoral policies and develop
new policies where necessary, in accordance with the overall environmental policies elaborated in the
GEAP.
(c)  Environmental Education and Public Awareness to support the development of a strategy to
increase public awareness of environmental issues and support for electronic and print media
campaigns, using existing government and NGO skills and capabilities.
(d)  Monitoring of Environment Quality to support the development of a system to collect information
and monitor environmental quality against agreed threshold levels.
(e)  Environmental Information Management to finance the development and implementation of an
environmental information strategy according to a model including:
(i)  the design of a common information architecture to establish coherence and compatibility;
(ii) the establishment of basic information infrastructures;
(iii) the maintenance of key data sets;
- 16 -



(iv) analytical capabilities;
69   Contingency Planning and Disaster Preparedness to develop a disaster awareness and contingency
planning system.
3.0    PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
The primary objective program was to establish the capacity within the National Environment Agency
(NEA) enabling it to develop and ensure the co-ordination of an effective system for environmental
planning and management in the Gambia so that environmental concems are fully integrated and reflected
in the social and economic development process in The Gambia.
Since it was generally accepted that the long-term success of environmental planning initiatives in the
Gambia would be contingent on the development of adequate human resources in NEA and its
collaborating agencies, the program aimed at bolstering local talents and skills in order to gradually reduce
the country's dependence on extensive technical assistance. To this end, the program supported a new
approach that relied on stronger local management supplemented by short and medium-term targeted
consultancies. Consequently, the main thrust of program was focused on the development of the
institutional infrastructure, on strengtiening the capacity of the human resources required to meet this
objective, and also to help realize the policy and program objectives of the GEAP.
4.0    ACHIEVEMENTS OF BANK-FUNDED PROGRAMS
4.1    Environmental Education and Communication (EE&C)
The following achievements were noted: (i) establishment of the Annual National Environment Awards
Scheme; (ii) establishment of Divisional Environmental Education Task Forces; (iii) development of the
National Environmental Education Strategy; (iv) production of a simpler version of the GEAP in English
and Arabic, and in three local languages, including Wollof, Mandinka and Pularr; (v) fourteen pamphlets
dealing with various aspects of the environment and the work of NEA were also produced and distributed
to the general public; and (vi) the finalization of Integration of Environmental Education into Formal
Education System.
An EE&C Strategy was developed and adopted. The task force action plans in the strategy were being
implemented. In non-formal Education, several environmental education activities were completed including
training for extension agents in participatory rural appraisal techniques, sensitization of the media, and a
pilot project for erosion control, to name a few. The Environmental Education Resource Centre with
audio-visual aids on the environment has been established, and is now headed by a Communications
Officer. Four issues of the Gambia environmental newsletter (EARTH NEWS) have since been published
on a biannual basis.
One of the most significant and innovative GEAP activities geared toward raising public awareness
is the Environmental Awards Scheme (EAS), which has been funded by Capacity 21. It is in its fifth year,
and has an average of 250 entries for competition annually.
4.2    Environmental Information Systems (EIS)
In The Gambia a multitude of agencies, both public and non-governmental are involved in the collection
and management of information related to the environment. Data collection procedures, presentation
formats, exchange methodologies, storage, update and maintenance routines are as varied as the number of
- 17-



sectoral institutions involved in data handling. The consequences have been that various
environment-related data are held at various organizations and in different formats (digital and analogue)
which are not inter-changeable. This situation has hindered efficient information exchange, management
and decision-making.
An EIS strategy to coordinate and harmonize the development of a demand-driven EIS was developed in
1994. In addition, an EIS Working Group was created to implement the strategy and coordinate all EIS
activities within the country. A network of five Data Centres has been set-up and provided the necessary
computer equipment to enhance environmental information management in The Gamnbia. The current data
centres are the Departments of Lands and Surveys, Water Resources, Central Statistics, Agricultural
Planning, and Agricultural Services (Soil and Water Management Unit). The Environmental
Documentation Centre (Library), which is part of the EIS program, now has a good collection of
publications on the environment. Training was provided for staff of the key officials of the EIS Working
Group in GIS techniques.
4.3    Environmental Quality Monitoring and Enforcement
The national strategies for Environmental Quality Monitoring and Enforcement (EQME) and Solid Waste
Management (SWM) were developed under the guidance of the Environmental Quality Working Group.
In collaboration with the Department of Water Resources, the Gambia Police Force and the Department of
Health Services, NEA commenced implementation of the EQME strategy. The team focused on ambient
air quality, vehicle emissions, water quality and solid waste management. The institutions were provided
with training and equipment for implementation of the strategy. Systems for air and water quality
monitoring and solid waste monitoring were designed. The Air Quality Monitoring Network for Greater
Banjul was established, and a nationwide water quality monitoring is being implemented.
NEA was not able to start implementation of the SWM strategy because it lacked the required funds.
However, important activities in this area, including identification of potentially suitable waste disposal
sites in Greater Banjul, were undertaken in collaboration with the EIS program.
In the area of enforcement, the Inspectorate Unit has been established and provided with operational
guidelines, equipment and training at the School of Public Health, Gambia College, to enhance its
enforcement capacity.
4.4    Institutional Support for Coordination of GEAP Implementation
Several significant achievements have been registered. The management of the NEA has been trained in
project management, and budgeting. A Management Information System (MIS) has been created to include
the integrated Work Plan, Assets Inventory, Human Resources database, Vehicles Monitoring and the Sun
Accounting System. Due to complex structure of the Integrated Work Plan, it has not utilized in the
manner it was designed for. Other components of the MIS, notably the SUN Accounting System, is being
regularly utilized. Another important milestone was the setting up of the Local Area Network (LAN),
which has tremendously eased information sharing within the Agency. All NEA staff have undergone
computer literacy training in word-processing, spreadsheets and database.
4.5    GEAP Monitoring and Policy Development
A GEAP monitoring strategy is being implemented, and routine progress reviews based on agreed
- 18-



environmental indicators are being conducted. The State of the Environment Report has been published
after a much publicized launching by His Excellency the President of the Republic and Chairman of the
National Environment Management Council (NEMC). The State of the Environment Report was the first
executive report on the environment in the Gambia following the implementation of the GEAP. The report
has acted as a benchmark for future actions. Since it has not been feasible to provide a holistic picture of
the environment frequently, it has been agreed to produce the report at least once every five years. Several
key policy studies were also completed.
4.6    Establishment of a Constituency for Environmental and Natural Resource
Management
All the reports on the GEAP implementation, including the GEAP Phase I evaluation report, the World
Bank Mid-term review, the GTZ and UNDP Capacity 21 Reviews, have concluded that all the programs
had progressed satisfactorily although some delays were experienced in certain areas. The key
implementation successes include: the establishment of a functional institutional framework for
environmental management and planning; raising public awareness of environmental issues; and the
accordance of a high profile to the environment on the national agenda.
The building of a constituency has been one of the best ways of attaining sustainability in The Gambia for
environmental management. There has now been created a participatory functional institutional framework
for co-ordination and implementation of the GEAP, comprising principally the National Environment
Management Council (NEMC) and the National Environment Agency (NEA). The NEMC being the main
policy-making body for environmental management, has been chaired by the President of the Republic,
with the Secretaries of State responsible for the following Departments of State as members: Natural
Resources; Agriculture; Health and Social Welfare; Finance and Economic Affairs; Trade Industry and
Employment; Local Govermnent and Lands. The Executive Director of NEA has served as Secretary to the
Council.
The NEA has carried out the task of coordinating multi- and cross-sectoral environmental and natural
resources management issues through the framework of Networks and Technical Working Groups. Where
the network system did not fully succeed in promoting coordination between different programs, the
working group approach has helped to satisfy both inter- and intra-institutional working relationships.
These Technical Working Groups have been organized along programmatic lines with broad membership
base drawn from institutions with complementary mandates for environmental and natural resources
management. Each Working Group has acted as a clearinghouse for the respective program, ensuring
co-ordination among the member organizations, which include departments of state, NGOs, and the private
sector in the area of environmental management.
The main objective for establishing Working Groups has thus been achieved by creating a system for
continuous consultation and dialogue among the key stakeholders. The Working Group concept has been
adopted by planning authorities at the divisional level, where the authorities have established
sub-committees on the environment and natural resources. This has been a major achievement in
environmental management, as the framework is expected to facilitate continued coordination.
4.7    Disaster Preparedness and Contingency Planning
An inventory of all existing contingency plans was completed within the country. The existing plans were
then incorporated in the ten newly prepared contingency plans. After a national sensitization workshop, a
contingency plan was selected for a simulation exercise, which was quite successful indeed.
- 19-



Recommendations for an institutional structure together with the backing legislation have been proposed.
4.8    Raising Environmental Awareness
Through programs such as the Environment Award Scheme, the general public has begun to better
understand environmental issues. Communities have been making representations to NEA on environmental
issues that adversely affect them. Programs on radio and television, and in focus group meetings have
served to raise the level of awareness of environmental issues in civil society.
Gambians at large have become aware of environmental issues that affect their lives, largely as a result of
GEAP I implementation. GEAP has reinforced the Banjul Declaration of 1977 and intensified the national
call to address environmental and natural resources degradation.
Implementation of GEAP I has also provided a framework for addressing environmental and natural
resources concems of both the public and private sectors. The need to incorporate Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIA) in project designs and feasibility studies has become more acceptable in both the public
and private sectors.
4.9    Strengthening Institutional Capacities for Effective Environmental Management
The GEAP implementation process has afforded various stakeholders the opportunity to better understand
the linkages between the relevant issues and the need to apply specific techniques in the decision-making
process. Such tools have included the following: Environmental Impact Assessment Guidelines and
Procedures; Land Use Land Cover Maps for general and sector-specific applications; Forestry Inventory;
Greater Banjul Master Plan Development; Tsetse Study (in collaboration with the Intemational
Trypanotolerance Centre); and Digitized Agro-ecological and Vegetation Map for the Mediun Term
Agricultural Master Plan.
4.10   International Cooperation
The Gambia has been active in the intemational fora. The Garnbia has ratified global and regional
agreements, including the Convention to Combat Desertification, the Climate Change Convention, and the
Convention on Biodiversity.
As a clear indication of the success of program implementation in The Gambia, the UNDP Capacity 21
Program selected The Gambia, out of a total of 45 countries, to study how the country implemented its
national environmental action plan. Also, The Gambia has been one of three African countries selected by
the World Bank to evaluate its success in implementing National Environmental Action Plans with a view
to formulating "Best Practices Guides" for other African countries. The choice of The Gambia was largely
due to the success it registered in the area of environmental management.
Within the context of sub-regional co-operation, NEA has established an effective working relationship
with the Centre de Suivi Ecologique (CSE) in Senegal. The Remote Sensing Applications Unit of the
University of Ghana, another sub-regional institution, has also collaborated with the NEA. Also, The
Gambia, through NEA, has been an active member of the Sahelian Pesticides Committee. The NEA, under
the Hazardous Chemicals and Pesticide Program, has entered into a bilateral co-operation program with
Senegal in the area of chemicals, especially pesticides management. Under this program, NEA's Pesticide
Analyses Laboratory has agreed to undertake the analysis of pesticide formulation for both countries, while
the Locustox Laboratory in Senegal is expected to conduct analyses in pesticides residues.
- 20 -



5.0    IMPLEMENTATION CONSTRAINTS
5.1    Inflexibility of Donor Rules and Procedures
Donor rules and procedures would need to be made more responsive to the specific needs of the project,
because donor inflexibility has been considered to be one of the major constraints that has been experienced
in GEAP implementation. Consequently, this had affected the overall performance of the Agency and its
collaborators. For instance, the project lacked a threshold under which non-objection from Washington
would not be required. Consequently, every single request for payment, irrespective of the amount in
theory for even a dollar, had to be sent to the Bank for approval. The response time for our requests for
non-objections was too lengthy, and there was generally a lack of understanding of Bank procedures and
requirements, especially during the initiation of the project.
5.2    Time-consuming Consultation Process With Collaborating Partners
As this project has been a capacity building project, it has been expected that it would have to sustain itself
well beyond the life of any other external funding. Due to the fact that the project objectives agreed at the
onset of the project were broad and generally vague, a great deal of innovative thinking by NEA project
coordinators was required to develop activities to support the different project objectives. The
cross-sectoral nature of all project activities being implemented meant that all major stakeholders closely
scrutinized proposed actions before they could give their approval or acceptance. This added to making the
extensive consultation process among collaborating institutions, cumbersome and time-consuming.
Notwithstanding, it was felt that such an extensive consultative process with all affected parties was
deemed necessary to build that feeling of ownership among partners, which was necessary to ensure the
success of the interventions, and their long-term sustainability.
5.3    Unrealistic Assumptions
Furthermore, it has to be accepted that environmental management within the context of sustainable
development, has been a relatively new area in The Gambia, and no road maps did previously exist to guide
one's actions. The experience in project implementation gained this far has indicated that several
assumptions at the planning stage of this project have either changed, or have been found to be unrealistic.
Qualified personnel such as accountants and experienced project administrators were expected to be readily
available within the country. It was also expected that close linkages and the specific interventions from an
IDA-supported Health and Population Project supporting a comprehensive population policy prepared with
a view to reducing the current population growth rate and bringing about a sustainable equilibrium between
human and natural resources demands and consumption, would be maintained. The $ 1 0 million dollar
USAID ANR Project was also expected to provide technical assistance for institutional support and natural
resources planning, and to train Gambians in natural resources management and land tenure issues. While
the Health and Population was seriously delayed, the USAID ANR Project was abruptly closed as a result
of the military take-over in 1994. The IDA-funded Urban Environment Project to address urban poverty
and environmental degradation was later prematurely closed. Despite the and changes in assumptions and
the special nature of this kind of project, the Bank could not be made to revisit its existing rules and
procedures with a view to making them more responsive to the specific needs of the project
5.4    Lack of A Framework for Co-Ordination of Development Partners' Efforts
At the Round Table Conference at which the Gambia Govemment submitted its proposal for assistance in
- 21 -



environmental management, the various donors agreed on a programmatic approach rather than the project
approach. Consequently, some programs did cut across the existing Network lines within the Agency
notably in areas such as EIA, Environmental Quality Monitoring (EQM), Environmental Information
Systems (EIS), Environmental Education and Communication (EE&C) etc.
Generally, each donor came at a different time to evaluate its projects without looking at the inputs of the
other donor, and the reports that emanated from these supervision missions were not made available to the
other donors. Even where the donors operated within the same program, they were not informed about the
outcome of the others' field visit, and consequently their lack of coordination constrained the program
implementation.
5.5    Weak Implementation Capacity
Implementation capacity in environmental management in the country has been generally weak within the
different sectors, including the line departments, the NGO community, private sector and in local
communities. Which type of capacity was lacked, varied at the various levels, but they generally ranged
from lack of technical knowledge to project planning, implementation, and monitoring.
The lack of implementation capacity was due to several factors, such as lack of the required staff in terms
of numbers for NEA during the project design. The lack of the prerequisite skills in general management at
the collaborating and implementing line departments also affected the smooth implementation of the project.
Within the private sector, experience has shown that in the area of environmental policy analysis, there was
a clear need for training and skills' development. This was confirmed by the generally low quality of
consultancy reports and studies commissioned by the ANR Working Group, as well as the others such as
the Environmental Education and Communication program. Other areas that have been found to require
skills' development were environmental impact assessment (EIA) and environmental legislation. The
professional capacity within both the NEA and line departments needed to be further enhanced if the
expected outputs of GEAP implementation were to be met. The availability of EIA skills particularly
within the private sector, and in sufficient numbers was found to be necessary in enhancing the
incorporation of EIA as an important tool in environmental management. The lack of enough lawyers with
sufficient training in Environmental Legislation resulted in the slow rate of implementation of several
activities within the Environmental Legislation program.
At the divisional levels, the capacity development should have centered around environmental education at
the community level, in training and skills' development in project planning, implementation, and
monitoring. Technical and resource constraints have also been recognized as major ones, and they included
lack of office space, photocopiers, and means of communication.
5.6    Inadequate Support Systems for Environmental Management - Decentralization
One other means of GEAP implementation apart from the "Working Group" concept was through
decentralization to the local community levels. Decentralization of the GEAP and other processes have been
hampered by the fact that there has not yet been in place a coherent national decentralization policy that
would have taken into account the different roles and responsibilities of the various actors. The experience
of the Agency in the development of the Local Environment Action Plans (LEAPs) helped reveal several
shortcomings. The current divisional level structures that were expected to support the decentralization of
the GEAP were by and large the Divisional Coordinating Committee (DCC), too weak. Their members
often either lacked capacity as noted above, were overloaded with work, did not have adequate resources,
or showed varying levels of commitment. Although the framework for sustainable environmental
- 22 -



development exists in the countly in the form of the GEAP, the constraints that have been encountered
should act as valuable lessons along the way towards sustainable environmental management.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No information provided.
(c) Other partners (MVGOs/private sector):
No information provided.
10. Additional Information
No information provided.
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Project            Outcome           Output Projected in SAR      Actual Output at Project    Notes and
Component            Indicators                                          Completion             Comments
Projected in SAR
1. Institutional    1. 1 Skills of NEA  1.1.1 At least six NEA staff  Six NEA staff positions trained
Support for the     staff improved      trained in project management.  in project management.
Coordination of
GEAP
Implementation
1.1.2 At least three workshops  Two workshops conducted for
conducted for NEA staff      NEA staff to enhance
members to enhance           management skills.
management skills.
1.1.3 All NEA staff to have  All NEA staff received training
received training in computer  in computer literacy.
literacy.
1.1.4 Eght to ten staff trained  Eight to ten NEA staff trained
in administration including  in administration including
Executive Director, Deputy   Executive Director, Deputy
Director, and Administrator.  Director, and Administrator.
1.2 Staff of other  1.2.1 Environmental          Environmental curriculum
institutions/correspo  curriculum prepared and   delivered to Gambia College,
ndents trained in   delivered to MDI             GTTI, and RDI.
environmental
management
1.2.2 At least four workshops  More than ten workshops were  (1 a)
conducted for environmental  conducted for environmental
desk officeers/correspondents  desk officers/correspondents in
in line agencies and one     line agencies and at least one
training workshop for decision  training workshop was
makers on environmental      conducted for decision makers
management and planning.     on environmental management
and planning.
1.3 NEA's           1.3.1 Management Information  Accounting portion of           (1 b)
Management          System designed, reviewed    Management Information
Information System  and in use.                  System being used by NEA.
installed.
1.4 Equipment is    1.4.1 Equipment acquired and  Adequate equipment and
acquired.           put into use.                vehicles procured, received and
presently in use.
2. GEAP             2.1 Capacity to     2.1.1 Publication of three    One "State of the
Monitonng and       monitor, evaluate   "State of the Environment"   Environment" report published
Policy Development  and report on GEAP  reports.                    in March 1997 and distributed.
implementation
exists.
GEAP revision completed in
December 1999
- 24 -



2.2 NEA assists     2.2.1 Workshops organized to  Workshops conducted to
relevant sectoral   assist sectoral agencies.    assist Minerals, Forestry,
agencies to align                                Biodiversity and Agricultural
policies with GEAP                               agencies to align policies with
GEAP.
3. Environmental    3.1 Increased public  3.1.1 Environmental Education  EES review completed in     (3a)
Education           awareness of        Strategy reviewed            September 1997 with 30% of
environmental                                   the population being aware of
issues                                           key environmental issues.
3.1.2 Video on priority      Video completed in 1997 and
environmental concerns      shown in 10 villagesAtowns in
produced.                    each of six administrative
regions; also shown on National
TV.
3.1.3 At least eight workshops  Eight workshops conducted for
organized for key target groups  key target groups.
3.1.4 Weekly national radio  One radio broadcast made
broadcasts for environment in  each week for 12 months in
all local languages.        three local languages plus
English
3.2 Public          3.2.1 Two national campaigns  Two national campaigns held
knowledge of GEAP   on GEAP and NEA completed    with workshops organized in six
and NEA assured     with workshops organized in at  Divisions for opinion leaders.
least six Divisions for opinion
leaders.
3.2.2 Popular version of GEAP  Popular version of GEAP        (3b)
completed within six months of  completed and published in
project implementation.      1997.
4. Monitoring of    4.1 Capacity to     4.1.1 A coordinated          A coordinated environmental
Environmental       monitor             environmental monitoring     monitoring system began
Quafity and         environmental       system is designed and this  implementation early in 1995
Enforcement         quality is          monitoring system            principally with pesticides.
strengthened        implemented
4.2 NEA's capacity  4.2.1 Inspectorate established  More than five environmental  (4a)
to act on specific  and functioning with         violations were followed up by
environmental       enforcement mechanisms in   July 31, 1999.
violations Is       place. At least five violations
developed           in different areas are followed
up.
5. Environmental    5.1 Development     5.1.1 EIS workshop organized  EIS workshop held June 1999
Information         and implementation
Management          of EIS strategy with
coordination of EIS
guidelines and
priorities.
5.1.2 First version of data  Data architecture and
architecture and nomaclature  nomaclature available in
available in Documentation   Documentation Center since
Center                       May 1997.
5.1.3 Key data sets identified,  Key data sets readily available  (5a)
produced or converted, and  in digital format.
made available in digital
format.
- 25 -



5.1.4 NEA program officers for  One NEA program officer       (5b)
environmental Information and  trained. Fourteen staff from key
Environmental impact        departments trained.
Assessments trained in EIS.
Staff from key departments
trained in data conversion and
management.
5.2 National        5.2.1 Selected staff from NEA,  Six selected staff from NEA,
capabilities for    key departments, private     key departments, private sector
special analysts    sector and NGOs trained in   and NGOs trained in analysis of
developed           analysis of georeferenced    georeferenced environmental
environmental information.  information trained in Ghana.
6. Contingency      6.1 Contingency     6.1.1 Multidisciplinary      Three multidisciplinary
Planning and        plans developed     workshop organized           workshops held.
Disaster
Preparedness
6.1.2 At least one contingency  Ten contingency plans made
plan available              available.
6.2 Networking      6.2.1 Capacity developed     One Ferry Disaster simulation
mechanisms for      within line agency and local  case tested.
implementation of   communities to act in
emergency plans     emergency cases
put in place.
Notes and Comments:
(1a)  Some of these workshops were held outside Gambia.
(1 b) MIS during 1997-99 continued to be developed with computerized accounting put into use by NEA. Integrated WAbrk Plan,
continues to require further development, is excessively complex and is too time-consuming to be successfully managed by the present
staff of NEA at this point in time. MIS not in use but is being considered by NEA for future use.
(3a)  Baseline Survey of Awareness level on environmental issues conducted in 1997
(3b)  Popular version of GEAP was translated in three main local languages (Wollof, Mandinka & Pulaar) and Arabic.
(4a)  Inspectorate established and three inspectors trained. Regulabons approved in October 1999.
(5a)  This is an ongoing process with data in digital format about 10 percent completed.
(5b)  Program officers for Environmental Impact Assessment not trained in EIS.
Source of information:  Components 1 & 2: Executive Director and Deputy Director.
Components 3 through 6: Individual Program Officers.
- 26 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ million
1. Institutional Support for the Coordination of GEAP  0.62         0.54           87
Implementation *
2. GEAP Monitonrng and Policy Development            0.29           0.21            71
3. Environmental Education & Public Awareness        0.40           0.31           77
4. Monitoring of Environmental Quality and Enforcement  0.52        0.50            97
5. Environmental Information Management              0.34           0.31            92
6. Contingency Planning and Disaster Preparedness    0.13           0.10            88
Total Baseline Cost                                  2.30           1.97
Total Project Costs              2.30           1.97
Total Financing Required              2.30           1.97
* Excluding US$0.6 million Govemment contribution for incremental operational costs
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB          NCBe        Othe'        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.15         0.00        0.15
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.15)       (0.00)       (0.15)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         1.70         0.00        1.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)       (1.70)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.45         0.00        0.45
Training & Worshops          (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.45)       (0.00)      (0.45)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.30         0.00        0.30
Refunding of PPF             (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)      (0.30)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
Currency Revaluation         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                      0.00         0.00         2.60         0.00         2.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (2.60)       (0.00)       (2.60)
- 27 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB           NCB           Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.53           0.00          0.53
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.53)         (0.00)        (0.53)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           0.91           0.00          0.91
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.9 1)        (0.00)        (0.9 1)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.54           0.00          0.54
Training & Worshops             (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.54)         (0.00)         (0.54)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.17           0.00          0.17
Refunding of PPF                (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.17)         (0.00)         (0.17)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
Currency Revaluation            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.00           2.15           0.00          2.15
(0.00)         (0.00)         (2.15)         (0.00)        (2.15)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project fuinds to local governnent units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
C'onpotieit             Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
BanL      Go% t.     CoF.      Bnn        Govt.     CoF.    Bank    Glo-t.  C.oF.
1. Institutional support for  0.62  0.60                 0.54       0.60              87.1   100.0
the Coordination of GEAP
Implementation
2. GEAP Monitoring and    0.29                           0.21                         72.4
Policy Development
3. Environmental          0.40                           0.31                         77.5
Education
4. Monitoring of          0.51                           0.50                         98.0
Environmental Quality and
Enforcement
5. Environmental          0.34                           0.31                         91.2
Information Management
16. Contingency Planning   0.13                           0.11                         84.6
and Disaster Preparedness
Actual GOTG financing for incremental operational costs was not available
- 28 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
A detailed cost benefit or rate of return calculations was not performned.
- 29 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project CN cle              No of Persons and Specialty              Perfora nce Rating
(e g. 2 Economists. I FNMS etc.)    Implementaton      De%elopment
Mlonth/Year    Count       Specialtv                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
April 1993                    4    Grace Yabrudy, TTL
Yves Prevost, consultant
Dominique Reeve, GTZ,
Observer
Karl Kirsch-Jung, GTZ, ZOPP
specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 1993                   4   Grace Yabrudy, TTL
Yves Prdvost, Consultant
Albert Greve, Multi-Donor
Secretariat Coordinator
Bermd Wiese, GTZ, ZOPP
specialist
Supervision
Febmialy 1995                  1   Marie Yvonne Powers, TTL            HS                HS
July 1995                      2   Marie Yvonne Powers, TTL            HS                HS
Yves Prevost, Consultant
November 1995                  1   Marie Yvonne Powers, TTL,           HS                HS
Albert Greve
April 1996                     2   Marie Yvonne Powers, TTL             S                 S
Yves Prevost, Consultant
July 1996                      1   Marie Yvonne Powers, TTL             S                 S
November 1996                  2   Marie Yvonne Powers, TTL             S                 S
Yves Prevost, Consultant
March 1997                     5   Yves Prevost, TTL                    S                 S
Marie Yvonne Powers
Albert Greve
Hans Hansen, GTZ
Michael Warich, GTZ
Oct/Nov. 1997                  1   Yves Prevost, TTL                    S                 S
May/June 1998                  1   Yves Prevost, TTL                    S                 S
February 1999                  1   Yves Prevost,  L                     S                 S
October 1999                   1   Yves Prevost, TTL                    S                 S
- 30 -



ICR
March 2000                    3   Yves Prevost, TTL - Env.            S                S
Specialist
Michael Furst, Consultant,
Env. planning &
management
Robert Etheredge,
Consultant, Financial
management
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Acrual/Latest Esiimate
No Staff weeks              US$ (.000)
Identification/Preparation              17.3                        49.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                   11.1                         36
Supervision                             58.7                       180.8
ICR                                     10.6                         32
Total                                   97.7                       298.1
- 31 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                         D H  0 SU OM    O N  * NA
aSector Policies                        O H   O SU OM      N  O NA
O Physical                              O H   O SU O M   O N  * NA
E Financial                             O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Institutional Development             0 H   0 SU O M   0 N  O NA
L] Environmental                        C) H  0 SU 0 M A    N  C0 NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction              O H  O SU OM    O N   * NA
a Gender                          OH OSUOM ON *NA
Z Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Private sector development            0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management              0 H   0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 ANA
n Other (Please specif)                 O H   O SU OM    O N  * NA
- 32 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoiy, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
LS Lending                                          OHS OS       Ou    OHU
* Supervision                                       O HS * S     OU    OzHU
E Overall                                           OHS eS       O U   (O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
M Preparation                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
I Government implementation performance             C HS O s     O U   O HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     O U   O HU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU
- 33 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Report no. 12478-GM - dated March 17, 1994
Development Credit Agreement - Credit no. 2602-GM - dated May 11, 1994
Statements of Mission Objectives, Back-to-Office reports, Aide memoires and Project Status Reports
- from April 1993 to March 2000
Mid-term review meeting report from the National Environment Agency - dated March 14, 1997
National Environment Agency Auditors Reports and Financial Statements from XXXXX to XXXXX
Gambian-German Environmental Management Project (GGEMP) Internal Project Progress
Monitoring. February 1997.
Project Monitoring Mission on the Gambian-German Environmental Management Project within the
NEA. Findings and Recommendations. Commissioned by GTZ. Author: Dr. Michael Priester. October
1997.
National Environment Agency - Agreed Minutes for the NEA/GTZ Environmental Management Project
supervisory mission. Summary of Key Findings and Recommendations. Atlantic Hotel, Banjul 2-6 March,
1998.
- 34 -



