Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2602 GM
                   Development Credit Agreement
          (Capacity Building for Environmental Management
                   Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                    THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 11, 1994
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2602 GM
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1994, between THE REPUBLIC OF THE
GAMBIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from Gesellschaft fur
Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ) a grant (the GTZ Grant) in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to $1,300,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (the GTZ Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and GTZ; and
      (C)   the Borrower is committed to the carrying out of its
Gambia Environment Action Plan; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "GEAP" means the Gambia Environment Action Plan, being
the Borrower's framework for natural resources and environmental
management and planning, as approved by the Borrower in July 1992;
      (b)   "NEA" means the Borrower's National Environment Agency
established by the Borrower on July 1, 1993;
      (c)   "NEMA" means the Borrower's National Environment
Management Act, 1987, as the same may be amended from time to time;
      (d)   "NGOs" means nongovernmental organizations operating in
the territory of the Borrower;
      (e)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 15, 1993 and April
21, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (g)   "Selected Government Agencies" means the Borrower's
Ministry of Natural Resources, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry for
Local Government and Lands, Ministry of Health and Social Welfare,
Ministry of Trade, Industry and Employment and such other agencies
as the Borrower and the Association shall agree from time to time.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 1,900,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
central bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
Page  3
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15,
commencing April 15, 2004 and ending October 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on October 15,
2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end: (a) shall carry out the Project through
NEA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative, environmental and ecological
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project;
and (b) without limitation to Subsection 3.01 (a) above, shall make,
in each year of the Project, budgetary allocations in its fiscal
budget appropriate to ensure the timely execution of the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower, on conclusion of its current
review of the provisions of NEMA, and having prepared any draft
amendment to NEMA that it deems necessary or desirable to empower
NEA to fulfill its mandate for environmental planning and
management, particularly, without limitation, its regulatory and
monitoring role, shall: (i) provide to the Association any amendment
for its review and comment; and (ii) take due account of the
Association's comments.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause NEA to (a) prepare and
submit to the Association for the Association's review and comments
thereon:
            (i)   by no later than three months after the Effective
                  Date, (A) an environmental education strategy
                  paper including, without limitation, a mission
                  statement, identification of key target
                  constituencies and determination of the most
                  effective methods for increasing public awareness
                  of environmental concerns; and (B) an
                  environmental information system strategy paper
                  including, without limitation, the results of the
                  environmental information workshop; and
           (ii)   by no later than twelve months after the
                  Effective Date: (A) two strategy papers in
                  respect of Parts D and F of the Project; and (B)
                  the common data architecture and an action plan
                  for the upgrading of key data sets in respect of
                  Part E of the Project, and shall take into
                  account the Association's views and comments in
                  respect of the strategy papers insofar as these
                  affect Project implementation, and in respect of
                  the common data architecture and action plan in a
                  manner satisfactory to the Association; and
      (b)   review, together with the Association, by no later than
March 31 in each year of Project implementation, the implementation
of its human resource management plan, annual workplan and schedule
of consultants' recruitment for the current year, and thereafter
shall prepare, by no later than May 31 in each year, a human
resource management plan, an annual workplan, a schedule for
consultants' recruitment and draft consultants' terms of reference
for the following year, taking into account any difficulties
encountered during the current year and the views expressed and
comments made by the Association at the time of review of the
current plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
Page  5
      Section 3.05. The Borrower: (a) by no later than twelve months
after the Effective Date, shall establish an inspectorate for
enforcing environmental standards with status, regulatory powers and
duties satisfactory to the Association and shall allocate
appropriate staff thereto;
      (b)   by no later than eighteen months after the Effective
Date, shall place in full force and effect environmental impact
assessment procedures acceptable to the Association; and
      (c)   shall make available to the public, at a reasonable
charge, the results of all environmental assessments and all
environmental monitoring data kept in its environmental information
system with a view to the promotion of environmental awareness.
      Section 3.06. (a) By no later than November 30, 1995, the
Borrower shall, and shall cause NEA to, prepare and submit to the
Association for its review and comments, and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, a report (for the purposes of
this Section, the "Midterm Report") on the progress and status of
the Project, including: (i) a study of the items set forth in Sub-
section (b) below; and (ii) an action plan, including a timetable
for measures and action to be taken, for the implementation of the
remainder of the Project.
      (b)   By no later than December 31, 1995, the Borrower shall,
and shall cause NEA to, carry out, jointly with the Association, a
midterm review (for the purposes of this Section, the "Midterm
Review") of the progress made in Project implementation. The Midterm
Review shall evaluate and assess, without limitation:
            (i)   the overall progress of Project implementation
                  having regard to the key monitoring indicators
                  agreed with the Association;
           (ii)   the extent of the progress made towards the
                  revision of key policy matters and introduction
                  of legislative measures in accordance with the
                  GEAP;
          (iii)   NEA's and Selected Government Agencies' (as
                  appropriate) ability, effectiveness, staffing and
                  performance in carrying out the Project;
           (iv)   the functions and effect of the newly established
                  environmental management system; and
            (v)   such other matters as the Association may deem
                  necessary or desirable.
      (c)   Following the Midterm Review, the Borrower shall, and
shall cause NEA to, revise and furnish to the Association the
Midterm Report, taking into account the conclusion of the Midterm
Review and the Association's comments and recommendations made at
the Midterm Review in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
      (d)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause NEA to, promptly and
diligently carry out the Project in accordance with the Midterm
Report and the action plan contained therein, taking, without
limitation, any corrective action deemed necessary by the
Association to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of
the Project or to implement such other measures as may have been
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
      Section 3.07. At all times throughout the duration of the
Project, NEA shall operate in a competent and efficient manner,
under a director with qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Association, and with competent staff in sufficient numbers.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  6
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause NEA to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall have or shall cause NEA to:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each six month period
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than: (A) one month
                  after the end of each six month period, and (B)
                  three months after the end of each fiscal year,
                  with respect to the consolidated annual reports,
                  a certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause NEA to maintain, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the semiannual and annual audits
                  referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and
                  that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   NEMA shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
implementation of the Project;
Page  7
      (b)   The Borrower, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of NEA or for the suspension of its operations; and
      (c)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any loan or grant, including,
                        without limitation, the GTZ Grant, made to
                        the Borrower for the financing of the
                        Project shall have been suspended,
                        cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                        part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                  such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                  Project are available to the Borrower from other
                  sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                  the obligations of the Borrower under this
                  Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely any
event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii)
of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the GTZ Grant Agreement has been entered into between
GTZ and the Borrower;
      (b)   NEA has employed staff in such number and with such
qualifications acceptable to the Association for the purposes of
carrying out each part of the Project;
      (c)   NEA has established and is operating an accounting
system acceptable to the Association;
      (d)   the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) have been
duly appointed; and
      (e)   NEA has established working groups, composed of members
from NEA, Selected Government Agencies and NGOs, to advise in
respect of Parts C and E of the Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  8
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
            The Quadrangle
            Banjul
            The Republic of The Gambia
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                    2264
                  The Republic of
                    The Gambia
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  THE REPUBLIC OF THE GAMBIA
                  By /s/ Ousman A. Sallah
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Katherine Marshall
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'               1,240,000        100%
    services
(2) Training                     330,000        100%
Page  9
(3) Goods                        110,000        100%
(4) Refunding of                 220,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to
    Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (c)
    Advance                                     of this Agreement
                               _________
         TOTAL                 1,900,000
                               =========
2.    No withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (1) assist the Borrower
in implementing the GEAP, and (2) strengthen NEA and other agencies
of the Borrower and increase their capacity to develop and implement
a system for environmental planning and management throughout the
territory of the Borrower.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Support for GEAP Coordination and
            Implementation
1.    Acquisition of vehicles and office equipment (including
computers) by NEA to develop its operational capacity.
2.    Strengthening of NEA's management and technical skill through
the provision of training.
3.    Provision of training in environmental management to Selected
Government Agencies.
Part B:     GEAP Monitoring and Policy Development
      Assistance to NEA in reviewing and, as necessary, reorienting
existing sectoral policies and identifying new policies as necessary
in accordance with the GEAP through the provision of training.
Part C:     Environmental Education and Public Awareness
      Promotion of public awareness of environmental issues through,
inter alia, the support of media campaigns and the enhancement of
the skills and capabilities of Selected Government Agencies and
NGOs.
Part D:     Monitoring and Quality Control
      Development of a system which determines acceptable
thresholds, monitors quality and enforces environmental standards
through the inspectorate in the areas of, inter alia, industrial
emissions, water and solid waste through the acquisition of
equipment and the provision of training.
Part E:     Environmental Information Management
      Development and implementation of an environmental information
Page  10
system to include, inter alia:
      (a)   the design of a common data architecture to establish
data coherence and compatibility;
      (b)   the identification, production and conversion of key
data sets; and
      (c)   development of analytical capabilities within NEA in
respect of environmental spatial information.
Part F:     Contingency Planning and Disaster Preparedness
      Development of: (a) a set of contingency plans to mitigate the
effects of major environmental disasters which could affect the
Borrower; and (b) a networking mechanism for the implementation of
contingency plans.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded (A) on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least two countries eligible under the Guidelines,
and in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association;
or (B) to the international agencies' procurement service office, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
      Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      With respect to each contract, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifi-
cations as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Association.
Page  11
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to 240,000 dollars to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph
3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                  such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
                  Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
Page  12
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section
2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
