4a 7o Iq- / S 
RESTR I CTED
FILE    COPY                  Report No. P-860
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its afRiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
TSRAEL BANK OF AGRICULTURE LIMITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
STATE OF ISRAEL
September 17, 1970



1'ITERNATIONAL BANK FOR REWODSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RE0MMD2JENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
To THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSE LOAN FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TO THE ISRAEL BANK OF AGRICULTURE LThITED
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE STATE OF ISRAEL
1. *     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US $20 million to
the Israel Bank of Agriculture Limited (IBA).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The proposed loan would be the first contribution by the Bank
to agricultural development in Israel. The Borrower would be IBA, the
largest agricultural bank in Israel, which would relend part of the loan
proceeds to its own customers and part to two smaller agricultural banks,
YAAD Agricultural Development Bank Limited (YAAD) and NIR Limited (NIR).
3.       In Hay 1969 the Government of Israel requested a Bank loan to
finance an agricultural credit program. An appraisal mission visited
the country in November 1969. Negotiations for the proposed loan took
place in Washington from August 28, 1970 to September 4, 1970.  The
agricultural banks participating in the project were represented by
NIr. Intrator (for IBA) and Mr. Kadishay (for YAAD and NIR), and the
Government by Mr. Sher, Deputy Attorney General, Mr. Sheffer of the
Bank of Israel, and M4r. Yeirav, Economic Counselor of the Embassy of
Israel.
4.       The Bank haa to date made six loans to Israel; no IDA credits
have been made. The following is a summary statement of these loans
as of August 31, 1970:



-2-
Loan                                                       (Amount US $ million)
Number   Year    Borrower               Purpose             Bank  Undisbursed
265      1960   State of Israel         Port of Ashdod      27.4      -
289      1961   Dead Sea Works Ltd.     Potash Plant        25.o      -
323      1962   State of Israel         Roads               22.0      -
424      1965   Industrial Develop-     Development         20.0      -
ment Bank of Israel       Finance
(IDBI)
519      1967   IDBI                    Development         15.0      3.5
Finance
689      1970   IDBI                    Development         25.0     25.0
Finance
Total (less cancellations)                        134.4
of which has been repaid to Bank and others      21.1
Total now outstanding                             113.2
Amount sold                   5.1
of which has been repaid    5.1                   -
Total now held by Bank                            113.2
Total undisbuirsed                                          28.5
5.       Disbursements under previous loans have proceeded satisfactorily.
The third IDBI loan (l1o. 689-IS) became effective on August 25, 1970. A
loan for highway construction is currently under preparation.
PART II - DESCRIPTIOI" OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
6.   Borrower:                       Israel Bank of Agriculture Ltd.
Guarantor:                      State of Israel
Beneficiaries:                  The Borrower, YAAD Agricultural revelops-
ment Bank Ltd., and N1IR Ltd.



- 3 -
Amount:                      The equivalent of US$20 million in
various currencies
Purpose:                     To finance the estimated foreign exchange
component of a three-year lending pro-
gram designed to increase the produc-
tion of and to improve export handling
facilities for high-value crops.
Amortization:                In 17 years including a four-year grace
period, through semi-annual instalments
beginning December 15, 1974 and ending
June 15, 1987.
Commitment charge:           3/4 of 1 percent
Relending terms:             For on-lending to YAAD and NIR:  same as
terms of the Bank loan.
For re-lending to ultimate borrowers:
Amortization over 10 to 15 years
including grace periods ranging
from 2 to 7 years, according to type
of sub-project with interest at
9 percent per annum.
Estimated economic return
on the project:            18 percent.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.       An appraisal report "Agricultural Credit Project - Israel" (PA-55a)
on the proposed project is attached.
8.       Although the contribution of agriculture to overall production in
Israel is small - in 1969 only 7 percent of GNP came from this sector, which
employed but 12 percent of the labor force - its contribution to exports is
important. In 1968 agriculture contributed 17 percent to Israel's commodity
exports and 28 percent of the value added of commodity exports. Since 1960,
when production caught up with local demand, the strategy within the agricul-
tural sector has been to shift resources into exports. For the last ten years
citrus has been the main item, but the limited growth potential of this market
has led to the search for other exportable products. Current policy is to
select products with a high growth potential in the *orld markets, which
offer Israel a comparative advantage due to her climate and experience in
production and marketing, and among these products those with the greatest
value added to the economy are preferred for promotion. The credit program
to which the proposed loan would contribute will be a key element in further
pursuing this policy.



- 4 -
9.       Three banks are engaged in agricultural credit:   Israel Bank of
Agriculture Ltd. (IBA) - 90 percent government owned; Yaad Agricultural
Development Bank Ltd. (YAAD) - 50 percent government owned; and NIR Ltd. -
privately owned. A borrower - mostly a cooperative settlement and sometimes
a private farmer - is free to choose any one of these banks, but once he has
made his choice he can do business only with the bank chosen. The loan
would be made to IBA which would relend part of it to its own customers
and on-lend the rest to YAAD and NIR, to be relent to their customers. The
loan proceeds would be divided between the banks on a "first-come, first-
served" basis and their respective shares can, therefore, not be determined
in advance. All three banks are well managed and have considerable exper-
ience in agricultural credit. Their resources originate from their own
funds (share capital, deposits, and issue of debentures) and from funds
made available from the Government Development Budget in the form of
interest-bearing deposits. The banks provide medium- and long-term loans
to agriculture in close cooperation with the Government's development plan.
The system of credit control is efficient, and the amount of arrears on the
average less than 0.1 percent of outstanding loans, mainly because marketing
organizations pay proceeds from crop sales not to the farmers but to his
bank, which in turn recovers loan repayments due before crediting the rest
to the farmer.
10.      The financial position of IBA, who would be the Borrower of the
Bank loan, is sound. Profits and reserves have shown a steady increase
over the years. Profit before taxation for the business year ended March 31,
1970 amounted to about $4 million, which represented 16 percent of share
capital, as compared to 15 percent in 1969. IRA, as well as the two parti-
cipating banks, are capable of handling the proposed loan.
11.      The project, which would cover the last three years of Israells
Five-Year Development Plan (1968-1973), has three main objectives:
(i) developing the production of export crops (off-season flowers and
vegetables, avocadoes, tangerines and mangoes); (ii) increasing the capa-
city of export handling facilities; and (iii) developing better use of
existing water resources. Investment would be in greenhouses, hot-houses,
planting material, packing and handling plants, new or improved on-farm
irrigation facilities, and small reservoirs and drainage works. Total cost
is estimated at $50 million. Twenty percent of cost would be borne by the
investing farmer. The participating banks and the Government would contri-
bute 20 percent each, and the balance of 40 percent, corresponding to the
estimated foreign exchange component, would be covered by the proposed Bank
loan of $20 million.
12.      The Government has undertaken to lend 35 million Israeli Pounds
($10 million equivalent) to the three participating banks to cover its
contribution to the Project. The entering into of loan agreements with
respect to these government funds, which would be made available at terms
similar to those of the Bank loan, except that the interest rate would be
7 percent per annum, is a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.



Another condition of effectiveness is the entering into of subsidiary loan
agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between IBA and the other two parti-
cipating banks *^iith regard to that part of the Bank loan made available to
them. The Bank itself would enter into project agreements with YAAD and
NIR containing provisions regarding the use of proceeds of the Bank loan.
Any sub-loan in excess of $300,000 equivalent would require Bank approval.
All sub-loans would be made in Israeli currency, and the foreign exchange
risk is to be borne by the Guarantor. A Project Coordination Committee,
composed of representatives of the relevant government agencies and the
agricultural banks, would coordinate project implementation. The establish-
ment of this Committee is also a condition of effectiveness.
13.      At full development, which is expected to be reached in the ninth
year, the annual export earnings resulting from the project would reach
about $17 million, and import substitution would save one additional million
dollars a year. The economic rate of return on total project investment
would be about 18 percent.
14.      Israel possesses the necessary organization to produce valuable
and highly perishable agricultural products (flowers, fruits, vegetables)
in the European off-season and to market them in l!estern Europe. The
Citrus M4arketing Board for oranges, grapefruit, and tangerines, and the
Agricultural Export Company (AGREXCO) for other perishable produce, are
responsible for this marketing effort. They handle export shipments,
exert strict quality control and feed market information back to the
producer. Marketing prospects are promising. European consumption of
off-season flowers, vegetables and fruit has increased rapidly together
with quickly rising incomes. Further substantial increases in consumption
are likely. The market for these products is highly competitive, but
efficient marketing networks and strict quality control should enable
Israel to sell the additional production.
15.      Formal international competitive bidding for the items to be
financed from the loan would be practicable only for the export handling
facilities to be built by AGREXCO (approximately $2 million), the only
large self-contained item included in the project. The other items are
mostly relatively small, ver-y varied and not suitable for bulk procurement.
As usual in loans of this type, they would be supplied through normal com-
mercial channels. Many of the items required for the Project are manufac-
tured in Israel from imported materials. Supplies are adequate, prices
competitive and servicing good. No tariffs are levied on agricultural
machinery and irrigation equipment which may be freely imported.
16.      The Bank would reimburse 50 percent of sub-loans made by the
three participating banks. For certain parts of the project (construction
of hot-houses and irrigation works and planting of sub-tropical plants) it
is proposed to cover expenditures incurred before the date of the loan
agreement but not earlier than July 1, 1970, involving up to $1.5 million
of disbursements from the Bank loan. This is justified by the fact that
farmers had to begin work on these items before the rainy season, in
order not to lose an entire production year.



- 6 -
17.      Some part of the loan will undoubtedlv be utilized for invest-
ments on lands abandoned during the period of hostilities in 1947/48, which,
under Israeli legislation, became vested in a Custodian of Absentees
Property, and have been sold by him to the Development Authority (a general
land development agency). The Israeli authorities have informed the Bank
that the legislation expressly provides for release of the proceeds of
such sales (with interest) to the absentees concerned, but that those uho
are living in countries still engaged in hostilities with Israel will
have to await an overall settlement between the countries involved.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUSENTS A1E1D AUTHORITY
18.      The draft Loan Agreement betwieen the Bank and IBA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the State of Israel and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and YAAD, the draft Project Agreement
between the Bank and NIRl, the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text
of the draft Resolution approving the proposed loan, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The agreements generally follow
the pattern of those for recent agricultural credits and the security
provisions are similar to those in the loan agreements for the Bank loans
to the Industrial Development Bank of Israel, Ltd. (IS-424, 519, 689).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.      The last Economic Report on Israel was dated July 22, 1969 (E A-7b).
An updating Memorandum on Current Economic Developments in Israel is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
20.      The economic boom which started in the second half of 1967 continued
during 1969 and the first half of 1970. Total domestic use of real resources
grew by 13 percent in 1969 with investment (+ 16 percent) and public con-
sumption (+ 15 percent) leading the way.  Gross national product, which in
real terms rose by 12 percent, could not keep pace with the rapidly rising
demand and the already very large resource gap grev by 19 percent. In 1970
these trends continued, but recently introduced economic measures should
begin to restrain the expansion of private demand during the second half of
the year. Official estimates expect aggregate demand at constant prices to
rise by some 10 percent, and real GNP at about 9 percent. The actual
growth in demand as well as in imports may even be larger in view of a new
supplementary budget which will add another 29 percent to the already
very high defense appropriations for FY 1970/71.
21.      Prices remained relatively stable, thanks mainly to a general
wage freeze and the rapid growth of imports.  But even though the compe-
titiveness of Israeli products abroad has apparently not been weakened by
inflationary pressures, there are signs that the buoyant internal demand
has diverted some resources from the export sector to domestic uses.



- 7 -
The weakening ex;port performance, together Tiith the rapid groiith of imports,
have created a serious balance of payments constraint. The deficit on
current account has risen sharply from US $531 lillion in 1967 to US $893 mil-
lion in 1969, and is expected to exceed US $1.1 billion in the current year.
Althoughi Israel's traditional sources of financing such deficits (unilateral
transfers, long-term concessional loans and direct investments) have also
grown significantly over the period - from an average of US $550 million
in the mid-1960's to about US $700 million in 1968/69 - they are inadequate
to cover the gap.
22.      In the light of these developments the Government has taken a
number of steps aimed at containing internal demand and improving the
external trade balance. IvIonetary policy became increasingly restrictive
in 1969, and continued to be so in the first half of 1970.  In lIay 1970,
the Government adopted a series of measures designed to reduce the rate
at which private consumption had been expanding in 1968 and 1969, while
shifting resources to the public sector. These measures, which were
0orked out in close consultation with the trade unions and employers,
include limits on wage increases, compulsory subscription of government
bonds and an increase in social security payments. The need for further
restricting private demand in the face of fast rising defense spending
prompted the Government to introduce a supplementary budget in August
which will once more increase taxes. The key changes of the new govern-
ment proposal, which is expected to be adopted by parliament wlithout
major changes, include a 20 percent import surcharge, higher corporation
tax rates, and increased excise taxes on non-essential consumer goods.
Exporters will be reimbursed for the higher cost of imported inputs.
Together with the existing export subsidies, this will raise the effec-
tive rate of exchange for most exports to a range of IL 4.20 - 4.55 per
US $ compared with the official parity of I; 3.50 per US $.
23.      The combination of a restrictive monetary policy, continued
incomes control and higher taxation, should effectively restrain private
demand.  MIoreover, since a large part of the increased defense appro-
priations will be spent abroad, the large budget deficit is unlikely
to create strong inflationary pressure.  However, wrhile internal fiiian-
cial equilibrium is satisfactorily preserved, the excess of total demand,
especially from the public sector, will spill over into imports and per-
petuate the large deficit in the balance of payments.
24.      Israel's medium- and long-term external public debt has risen
fast in recent years, reaching a total of just over $2 billion at the
end of 1969. Interest and amortization payments on public debt grew
apace; but as foreign exchange earnings have risen even faster (in the
last five years they increased at an average rate of 15 percent), the
ratio between service payments and these earnings declined from some
20 percent in the early 1960's to about 1l percent in the recent past.
For 1970, the service payments are estimated to reach $182 million, or
about 13 percent of foreign exchange earnings.



- 8 -
25.      Continued large balance of payments deficits would reverse this
favorable trend and result in a rapid rise in the debt burden. To main-
tain its creditworthiness, Israel may have to curtail private consumption
and investment significantly, if defense outlays do not decline soon as a
result of a fundamental change in the political situation of the area.
The rate of growth which Israel can maintain over the next few years
will depend to a considerable extent on the amount and terms of external
assistance.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WTITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
26.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOPRENDATION
27.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. IMcNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
September17; 1970



