CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 709 IS
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NIR LIMITED
DATED OCTOBER 21, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 709 IS
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
NIR LIMITED
DATED OCTOBER 21, 1970


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 21, 1970, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and NIR LIMITED (hereinafter called NIR).
WHEREAS by a loan agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Loan Agreement) between Israel Bank of Agriculture Limited (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
a loan in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that NIR agrees to undertake certain obligations to the Bank as hereinafter in
this Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS NIR, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement shall have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) NIR shall participate in carrying out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, in conformity with sound agricultural, administrative and
financial policies and practices, and under the supervision of competent and
experienced management.
(b)   NIR shall exercise its rights in relation to each sub-loan in such manner
as to protect the interests of the Bank and NIR.
0I


﻿4
(c)   NIR shall make adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for the
utilization, in NIR's agricultural credit program, of the proceeds of repayment to
it of principal of sub-loans to the extent that such proceeds are not required for
purposes of servicing the part of the Loan to be relent by the Borrower to NIR
and the portion of the Government Loan to be received by NIR from the Guarantor.
(d)   Except as the Bank and NIR may otherwise agree, NIR shall ensure
that (i) each sub-borrower receiving a sub-loan from NIR will contribute out of
his own resources not less than twenty per cent (20%) of the total cost of the
sub-lending project proposed by him (excluding land), (ii) in respect of each such
sub-lending project NIR will provide financing of not less than a further such twenty
per cent (20%) out of its own resources, as part of the sub-loan, in addition to
the proceeds of the Government Loan representing a further such twenty per cent
(20%) which will be made available by the Guarantor to NIR for such purpose
pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of the Guarantee Agreement, and (iii) the proceeds
of the Loan to be included in any such sub-loan will not exceed forty per cent
(40%) of such total cost.
(e)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, NIR shall submit to the
Borrower, for review and prior approval by the Bank, any sub-loan in excess of
the equivalent of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) or which, together
with any outstanding balance of such other sub-loan or sub-loans as shall have
been made to the same sub-borrower, exceed in the aggregate such amount.
Section 2.02. Pursuant to Section 2.01 of this Agreement, NIR, before
making any sub-loan, will complete a thorough appraisal of the loan application
and satisfy itself that the sub-borrower will follow sound agricultural practices,
in accordance with agreed investment plans, and that estimated results will be
adequate to ensure a reasonable return on investment and due and punctual service
of the sub-loan. In particular, NIR shall satisfy itself regarding such technical aspects
as adequacy and quality of water supply, ecological and climatological conditions
affecting production, suitability of planting material, the introduction and use of
such current inputs as shall be appropriate to the cropping program and soil
conditions, and the adequacy of marketing arrangements.
Section 2.03. (a) NIR shall at all times charge a yearly rate of interest on
sub-loans made by NIR of nine per cent (9%) or such other rate as shall be agreed
from time to time between the Bank and NIR.
(b)   Except as the Bank and NIR may otherwise agree, the repayment
periods (including grace periods) for sub-loans will not exceed:


﻿5
Total Repayment
Grace              Period (including
Period               Grace Period)
(years)                 (years)
(i)         Greenhouses for
flowers                        2                        10
(ii)        Sub-tropical fruit
plantations                     7                       15
(iii)       Farmers' cooperative,
kibbutzim and mosha-
vim handling facilities         2                       10
(iv)        AGREXCO handling
facilities                      3                       15
(v)         Irrigation equipment
and minor civil works          3                        15
(c)   NIR   undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, any
sub-loan by NIR will be made under the procedures described in Schedule 5 to
the Loan Agreement and on terms whereby NIR shall obtain, by written agreement
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of
NIR and rights which the Bank shall deem adequate to protect the interests of
the Bank, including: (i) the right to require the sub-borrower to carry out and
operate the sub-lending project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards, and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) the right to require that the goods and services to be financed out
of the proceeds of the sub-loan shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of
the sub-lending project; (iii) the right of the Bank and NIR to inspect such goods
and the farms, sites, works, and construction included in the sub-lending project,
the operation thereof and any relevant records and documents; (iv) the right to
require that the sub-borrower shall take out and maintain such insurance, against
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound agricultural and business
practices and that, without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall
cover marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan to the
place of use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by the sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;


﻿6
(v) the right to obtain all such information as the Bank and NIR shall reasonably
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the sub-borrower; and (vi) the right of N1R to suspend and terminate
access by the sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds of the sub-loan upon failure
by such sub-borrower to perform its obligations under its agreement with NIR.
Section 2.04. Without the prior approval of the Bank, NIR shall not amend
(i) its Memorandum or Articles of Association, provided, however, that such
approval shall not be required for any amendment to increase the authorized capital
of NIR or to create new classes of shares, or (ii) its security, lending and supervision
procedures described in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.05. For the purpose of enabling NIR to participate in sub-lending
operations to be carried out under the Project, a Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank shall be entered into between the
Borrower and NIR providing, inter alia, for relending by the Borrower to NIR
out of the proceeds of the Loan, at the same rate of interest as that payable
by the Borrower to the Bank in terms of Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. NIR shall, from time to time, select a representative to be
appointed by the Guarantor to the Project Coordination Committee pursuant to
Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement, and cooperate fully with the said
Committee in such manner as to enable it to fulfill its functions effectively.
Section 2.07. NIR shall cause each of its subsidiaries, if any, and each of
the subsidiaries established or acquired after the date of this Agreement, if any,
to observe and perform the obligations of NIR hereunder to the extent to which
such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were
binding upon each of such subsidiaries.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods and services
to be financed under Category II (b) of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Loan as set out in Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement shall be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as shall be agreed between the Bank and NIR.
Section 2.09. NIR shall maintain or cause to be maintained a separate and
special Government Loan Account for the Project (hereinafter called the
Government Loan Account) and records thereof adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the status of the portion
of the Government Loan received by NIR.


﻿7
ARTICLE III
Records
Section 3.01. (a) NIR shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of each sub-lending project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations and
financial condition of NIR. NIR shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records.
(b)   NIR shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year,
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with sound
auditing principles consistently applied; (ii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available
but in any case not later than three months after the end of each such year,
certified copies of its audited financial statements for such year, and an audit report
by the said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request; (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of NIR and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request.
(c)   Whenever so requested by the Borrower, NIR shall make available to
the Borrower its books and records relating to sub-lending transactions within the
framework of the Project, to enable the Borrower to fulfill its obligation to maintain
the Project Account referred to in Section 4.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement and
for the audit thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation; Information
Section 4.01. NIR shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the sub-loans, the sub-borrowers, the sub-lending
projects, and the administration, operations and financial condition of NIR.
Section 4.02. The Bank and NIR shall cooperate fully to assure that the
purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank and NIR shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance of their respective obligations
relating to the carrying out of the Project, the administration, operations and
financial condition of NIR and the sub-borrowers, and other matters relating to
the purpose of the Loan.


﻿8
Section 4.03. The Bank and NIR shall promptly inform each other of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan or the performance by either of them of its obligations
under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower or NIR of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and NIR or the perf-rmance by any party to a Government Loan Agreement or
a sub-loan agreeme, . of its obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Project Agreement shall enter into force and effect on
the Effective Date. If the Loan Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section
7.01 of the General Conditions, the Bank shall promptly notify NIR of this event
and, upon the giving of such notice, this Project Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.02. This Project Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of
the parties hereunder shall determine upon termination of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right,
power, or remedy accruing to either party under this Project Agreement upon any
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a
waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default; nor shall the action of such
party in respect of any default or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair
any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent
default.
Section 6.02. Any notice, demand or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by band or by mail, telegram, cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at such
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving
such notice or making such demand or request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿9
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
For NIR:
NIR Limited
28 a Rothschild Blvd.
Tel Aviv, Israel
Cable address:
NIR
Tel Aviv
Section 6.03. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Project Agreement
on behalf of NIR may be taken or executed by its General Manager or such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.04. NiR shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of NIR, take any action
or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by NIR
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.05. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. E .rke Knapp
Vice President
NIR LIMITED
By /s/ Ralph Cohen
Authorized Representatibe


