                                           Belize
                         Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
                                     (Loan 4575-BE)
                     Proposed Amendmentof the Loan Agreement


BACKGROUND

1.      The Roads and MunicipalDrainage Project (Loan 4575-BE) was designedto:
improve traffic flows on the national road network, assess the potential of private sector
participation in road maintenance activitiesin Belize, improve the natural drainage in
selectedmunicipalities and improve the management of the transport sector. The Project
was approvedby the Board on September5,2000, declaredeffective on January 30,2001
and is scheduledto close on March31,2005. The Loan amount is USD 13million and
the Government of Belize's contributionis USD 5.4 million. To date, approximately
USD 11.3million of the Loan has beendisbursed.

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT

2.      The implementation of the Project has been successful and it is currentlyrated
satisfactory. The works and institutional strengtheningactivitiesfinanced by the Project
are either under way or have been completed. The works include the improvement of the
Burrell Boom Road Bypass, and the construction/improvementof drainage works in six
municipalities (Dangriga, Corozal, Orange Walk, Punta Gorda, San Ignacio/Santa Helena
and Benque Viejo). The institutional strengtheningcomponent is still ongoing and
advancing satisfactorily. Both the ongoingworks-andinstitutional strengtheningactivities
are small and will be completed prior to the official Loan's Closing Date of March 31,
2005.

3.      With respect to the Road MaintenancePilot Project Component of the Loan
whose objective was to assess the possibilityof increasing the participation of the private
sector in road maintenance activities,the Prime Minister in a letter to the Bank dated
January 13,2004requested that it be cancelled and that the Loan proceeds allocatedto
this component (USD 650,000)be used to finance additional drainage works and the
corresponding consultant servicesin the municipalitiesof Orange Walk and Corozal.
The cancellation request was based on a decision of the Governmentto include in a loan
financed by the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank a pilot project with essentially the
same characteristics and objectives as the one included under Loan 4575. In his letter,
the Prime Minister also requested a 9-month extension to the Loan's Closing Date to
complete the ongoing works and the technical assistance activities. This extension was
granted on February 5,2004.

4.The       report documenting the results of the IDB-financedwork was received by
the Bank on July 29,2004 and the Bank's Project team has reviewed the work undertaken
under the IDB loan and is satisfiedthat it meets the project objectives envisaged under
the Bank's Loan and that the proposed reallocation of resources would improve the

drainageneeds of the two municipalities. Furthermore,the requested reallocation would
not require additional implementation arrangementsor modificationto the procurement
procedures or adjustments to the financial arrangements.

PROPOSED PROJECT AMENDMENT

5.      The proposed Project amendmentconsists of the cancellation of the Road
MaintenancePilot Project Component and the reallocation of the Loan proceeds
originally allocated to this componentto the proposed additional drainage works in the
municipalities of Orange Walk and Corozal and to related consultants services. The
AmendmentLetter will reflect this change and includesthe revised Schedule 1 to the
Loan Agreement showing the reallocation of the Loan proceeds. The Letter also will
reflect the extension to the Project's ClosingDate granted on February 5,2004.

