Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19921 -BEL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.0 MILLION
TO
BELIZE
FOR A
ROADS AND MUNICIPAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
JUNE 16, 2000
Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Belizian Dollar (BZD)
1.00 BZD= US$ 0.50
US$ 1.00 = BZD 2.00
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCIP       =  Belize City Infrastructure Project
BSI        =  Belize Sugar Industry
BSIF       =  Belize Social Investment Fund
CAS        =  Country Assistance Strategy
CDB        =  Caribbean Development Bank
DFID       =  Department for International Development - UK
DOA        =  Department of Archeology
DOE        =  Department of Environment
DTS        =  District Technical Supervisor
EIA        =  Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP        =  Environmental Management Plan
ERR        =  Economic Rate of Return
EU         =  European Union
GOB        =  Government of Belize
HDM        =  Highway Design and Maintenance Model
ICB        =  International Competitive Bidding
ICDF       =  International Cooperation Development Fund of Taipei
IDB        =  Inter-American Development Bank
LACI       =  Loan Administration Change Initiative
MBC        =  Maintenance by Contract
MED        =  Ministry of Economic Development
MFFA       =  Ministry of Finance and Foreign Affairs
MOWT       =  Ministry of Works and Transport
MPUEC    =  Ministry of Public Utilities, Energy and Communications
NCB        =  National Competitive Bidding
PEU        =  Project Execution Unit
PMM        =  Pavement Management Methodology
PMR        =  Project Management Report
QCBS       =  Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RIMMS    =  Roughton International Maintenance Management System
RMPS       =  Routine Maintenance Planning System
SOE        =  Statement of Expenditures
TA         =  Technical Assistance
TCC        =  Transport Coordination Committee
USAID      =  U.S. Agency for International Development
VOC        =  Vehicle Operating Cost
VPD            Vehicles per Day
Regional Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:   Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Guillermo Ruan                                  I



Belize
Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data .................................................................1
A Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
2. Key  performance  indicators .................................................................2
B Strategic Context .................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy .................................................................2
3. Sector issues to  be addressed  by  the  project and  strategic  choices .................................4
C  Project Description Summary .................................................................5
1. Project components .................................................................5
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by  the project .......................................5
3. Benefits and  target population ....................                                   .............................................6
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ..............................................................6
D  Project Rationale .................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection ...............................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies .........8
3. Lessons  learned  and  reflected  in the  project design ........................................................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .                                          .................................................. 10
5. Value  added  of Bank  support in  this project ................................................................ 10
E  Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                                10
1. Economic .................10
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                  11
3. Technical .................................................................                                                                 11
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                              12
5. Social ................................................................                                                                      12
6. Environmental- assessment ................................................................. 12
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................                                                    13
F Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                 13
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                             13
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                                             13
3. Possible  Controversial Aspects ................................................................                                            14



G Main Loan Conditions ............................                                   14
1. Negotiations Conditions ............................                       14
2. Board Presentation Conditions ............................                  14
H Readiness for Implementation .............................                          15
I Compliance with Bank Policies ............................                          15
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary
Annex 2.  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.  Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Table A.   Roads Summary Analysis
Table B.   Drainage Summary Analysis
Annex 5. Financial Summary
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al. Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.  Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File
Annex 9.  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10. Country at a Glance
Annex 11. Environmental Assessment - Summary of Urban Drainage Component
Maps          Belize; and Municipalities of Corozal; Orange Walk; San Ignacio-Santa Elena;
Benque Viejo Del Carmen; Dangriga; and Punta Gorda



Belize
Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
LCC3C
Date: June 16, 2000                                 Team Leader: Guillermo Ruan
Country Manager/Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos    Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: BZ-PE-40150                             Sector: Highways, and Urban Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [ ] Credit      [ ] Grant      [ ] Guarantee     [] Other [Specify]
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): 13.00
Proposed terms:   [] To be defined       [] Multicurrency     [X] Single currency US$
[X] Standard Variable                       [X] LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):           5
Years to maturity:             17
Commitment fee:                0.75
Service charge:
Front-end fee on Bank loan:    1.0%
Government                                                5.39                                5.39
IBRD (including front-end fee)                            0.38             12.62             13.00
IDA
Other (specify)
Total:                                                    5.77             12.62             18.39
Borrower: Government of Belize
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agency: Ministry of Works and Transport (MOWT)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M):
Annual        0.00        4.00         4.00         3.80         1.20
Cumulative       0.00         4.00         8.00        11.80        13.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: August 31, 2000         Expected closing date: June 30, 2004
Implementing agency: Ministry of Works and Transport (MOWT)
Contact person: Hon. Dr. Henry Canton, Minister of Works, Transport, Citrus and Banana Industries
Address: Power Lane, Belmopan, Belize
Tel: 501 08 22638             Fax: 501 08 23900              E-mail: minmow@btl.net
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of the project would be to: (a) improve year-round traffic flows on the national road
network by upgrading the road bypass connecting the Northern and Western Highways; (b) improve
natural drainage and reduce floods and/or the impact of floods in the selected municipalities through
priority storm-water drainage improvements; (c) assess the potential of private sector participation in road
maintenance activities through the implementation of a pilot project; and (d) improve the management of
the transport sector, including transport policy coordination among the different government ministries
and agencies involved in transport, through the preparation of national transport sector and road safety
strategies.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The achievement of the development objectives will be measured by the following indicators: (a)
verification that traffic volumes, vehicle operating costs and travel times on the upgraded road connector
meet or exceed those of the feasibility study projections; (b) verification that the property values have
increased at least 10%, one year after completion; (c) Government completes demonstration of methods
for successful participation of the private sector in road maintenance; and (d) Government completes
formulation of national transport and traffic safety strategies and recommended coordination mechanisms.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document Number: R93-187                Date of latest CAS discussion: November 30, 1993
The accompanying CAS document outlines the Bank Group's Assistance Strategy for the years 2000-
2004. The proposed project is fully consistent with the objectives of the new CAS in that it would
contribute to the poverty reduction agenda through: (i) improving the quality of life of the population by
providing adequate drainage systems to reduce flooding and the impact of flooding in six municipalities,
including the Cayo and Toledo districts; (ii) increasing the participation of the private sector in the
upgrading and maintenance of basic infrastructure; and (iii) strengthening the regulatory framework and
planning capacity of the public sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Belize is a small and open private sector-led economy, with a population of about 240,000 people, a per
capita GNP of US$2,730 in 1999, and a total area of 23,000 sq. km. Although the Government of Belize
(GOB) embarked on major infrastructure programs over the last decade with the support of the
international community, the country still faces large unmet needs.
The per-capita cost of infrastructure is very high for a variety of reasons. Principal among them is the
country's small and dispersed population; followed by the geography of the country which includes
mountains and swampy lowlands; and the fact that some types of qualified personnel are not available in
Belize and must be hired from abroad at premium wages. In addition, construction and maintenance
practices, although they have improved in the last few years, are somewhat sub-optimal. The following
paragraphs describe the main transport and municipal drainage issues and the GOB's strategy to deal with
them.
Improving and Rehabilitating the Road Network. Road transport is the principal mode of
transportation available for most freight and passenger movement in Belize. Over the past decade, the
road network, which consists of about 2900 km of all road types (485 km paved - 17%), has been greatly
improved, particularly those roads serving the northern and western regions of the country (Northern and
Western Highways, respectively). The improvement of these roads has supported a surge in tourism
activity and has also fostered growth in the agricultural sector, particularly the citrus industry. Similarly,



Page 3
the rehabilitation works on the Hummingbird Highway (financed by the European Union -- EU -- and the
Caribbean Development Bank -- CDB) and on the Stann Creek Valley Road (financed by UK's
Department for International Development -- DFID), have been completed and have facilitated the
expansion of the citrus industry and improved communications in the central region of the country.
Finally, the ongoing rehabilitation work on the Southern Highway with financing from several sources
including the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the International Cooperation Development Fund
of Taipei (ICDF) and DFID, will improve access to the southern districts, opening up economic
opportunities for the people of the southern region by integrating that region with the rest of Belize.
The GOB's medium-term road investment strategy is to complete the improvement and rehabilitation of
its main road network and to upgrade the condition of selected secondary road links and bridges of both
networks. The upgrading of the 20 km Burrell Boom Road to an all-season road is among the GOB's
priorities, as it will provide a better linkage between the Western Highway and the Northern Highway.
Road expenditures are financed by the GOB through annual budget allocations to MOWT and by grants
and loans from the above-mentioned bilateral and multilateral sources. Since capital expenditures are, to
a large extent, funded by external sources, there are significant fluctuations in the amounts spent annually.
Recurrent expenditures fluctuate less but funding for road maintenance remains at about 45% of the
optimal level.
The main sources of road user charges in Belize are fuel taxes, import duties and vehicle and driver
licenses. Fuel taxes represent more than 50% of the pump prices for gasoline in the country and about
40% for diesel. When tallied, these road user charges are sufficient to cover all annual road expenditures
(capital and recurrent) which have averaged BZ$14 million over the last five years.
Road Maintenance Management Improvements and Contracting Plans. In 1996 DFID financed
consultant services for the development and implementation of a road maintenance management system
at MOWT and its district offices (the Roughton International Maintenance Management System -
RIMMS). RIMMS has two main components: a Pavement Management Methodology (PMM), and a
Routine Maintenance Planning System (RMPS). The PMM consists of a number of procedures that
define the way in which evaluations with the Bank's Highway Design and Maintenance Standard Model
(HDM) can be used to plan and program periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works. The HDM is a
model developed by the World Bank several years ago for evaluating policies, standards and programs of
road rehabilitation and maintenance.
The RMPS consists of a database and detailed operational procedures. Although RIMMS is more than
adequate for MOWT's needs, its full implementation has been affected by insufficient support from the
MOWT authorities, by the shortage of vehicles to update field information on road condition, and by the
lack of sufficient computer equipment at the 7 MOWT district offices. The current MOWT
administration's road maintenance strategy is to provide the required resources to make RIMMS fully
operational so that MOWT can obtain all the benefits of the system, and move swiftly into contracting
more of the road maintenance activities to the private sector in order to increase efficiency and reduce
costs.
MOWT's main problem with force account has been the unavailability of equipment due to the lack of
funds to keep the equipment in good repair. Past efforts by USAID and the Bank were helpful in
resolving this problem in the short term while MOWT's shops had the support of technical assistance
services. A successful long term solution, however, was not achieved. Contracting road maintenance
works would reduce MOWT's equipment needs, giving the Ministry more flexibility in planning,
scheduling and executing the programs.
Developing a Transport Sector Strategy and Improving Interagency Coordination. Although the
use of the RIMMS should allow the MOWT to plan most of the road related work, overall planning is
undertaken largely in relation to preparing annual investment plans for inclusion in the budget. The
present MOWT administration has established Transport Coordination Committee (TCC), to help in the
development of investment strategies for the transport sector. The TCC will be instrumental in the
development of a comprehensive national transport sector strategy, whose preparation will be financed



Page 4
under this project. This strategy will promote balanced transport sector investment plans that have sound
economic justification. The following ministries and agencies are members of the TCC: Ministry of
Works, Transport, Citrus and Banana Industries (MOWT), Ministry of Economic Development (MED),
Ministry of Finance and Foreign Affairs (MFFA), Ports Authority, Airport Authority under Ministry of
Public Utilities, Energy and Communications, Chamber of Commerce, Police, and the Ministry of Natural
Resources and the Environment and Industry, Ministry of National Security and Immigration, Ministry of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Cooperatives, Ministry of Tourism and Youth, Belize City Council and
Executive Director of the Committee Secretariat.
Developing a Road Safety Strategy. The Government is concerned with the increasing frequency and
severity of road accidents. The lack of traffic signs and pavement markings, the limited enforcement of
speed limits, and the lack of driver education, are considered to be the main contributing factors. Due to
the inadequate provision of funds, traffic safety measures are not systematically implemented. To remedy
the situation, the MOWT, whose new responsibilities include the assessment of traffic safety as well as
the formulation and implementation of safety measures, would like to prepare a national road safety
strategy aimed at identifying the magnitude of the problem and developing a general public awareness
campaign to highlight the issues.
Improving Municipal Drainage. The MOWT is also responsible for drains and streets in towns,
waterways, and the maintenance of public buildings. With recent urban growth and economic activity, the
recurrent intense rains have lead to serious flooding. In 1993 the GOB, through MOWT, decided to
improve storm-water drainage in urban areas. The first phase of drainage investment was implemented in
Belize City under the Bank-financed Belize City Infrastructure Project (BCIP). The BCIP was completed
in December 1998 with the investments yielding satisfactory performance and a beneficial return to the
community. With the strong results attained from the investments made in Belize City, the GOB intends
to expand the storm-water drainage network improvements to six other towns located throughout the
country.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Road Network and Bridge Improvements. The project will finance upgrading of the Burrell Boom
Road (20km) to main road standards. The proposed works include the upgrading of an existing bridge on
this road (bridge will be strengthened and a two-lane bridge superstructure will be built on the existing
substructure). These investments will improve the strategic link between the Northern and the Western
Highways and will provide a direct, high quality access to the capital city of Belmopan from the northern
part of the country. It must be noted that this road is very important to the country as it constitutes the
sole bypass of Belize City, for traffic from the airport and locations further north, that is bound for the
western and southern regions of the country.
Road Maintenance. The project will support MOWT's strategy of increasing the participation of the
private sector in road maintenance activities through the implementation of a maintenance pilot project
for the outsourcing of road maintenance activities in one of the 7 MOWT districts. In addition to the
maintenance contracts, the pilot will finance a full assessment of the future role of MOWT's district
offices, including required necessary technical assistance to strengthen the capabilities of the pilot project
district in contract administration, and will assess and strengthen, where required, the current road
maintenance financing practices to ensure an adequate and timely flow of funds. The relative advantages
and shortcomings of road maintenance executed under contract and by force account will also be
assessed, and cost and productivity data will be collected to determine the cost effectiveness of each
approach based on comparative costs comprising, among others, equipment depreciation, and the cost of
MOWT's administrative overhead.
Under the Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2945-BEL), the Bank financed
two pilot projects for the contracting of routine maintenance activities on two road sections. One of the
projects was successful in attracting contractors and was completed to the full satisfaction of MOWT.
However, the data collected during the pilot implementation was insufficient to allow cost and



Page 5
productivity comparison of the type mentioned above. The other pilot was unsuccessful in attracting
bidders mainly because the road section selected on the Southern Highway was relatively distant from
population and commercial centers (at that time, a contractor located in the Belize City area would take
about ten hours to get to the project area and back).
Transport Sector and Road Safety Strategies. Planning and programming in the transport sector will
be addressed by the project through the preparation of a transport sector strategy with the participation of
consultants and counterpart staff from MOWT and other Government agencies. This effort will include
the design and implementation of a transport database. Consultant services will also be financed under the
project for the preparation of the national traffic safety strategy and the development of an action plan for
its implementation.
Municipal Drainage. The project will support GOB's drainage program by financing much needed key
structural storm-water drainage investments that were identified in a comprehensive urban infrastructure
study carried out by Halcrow Consultants in 1996 for the coastal towns of Punta Gorda, Dangriga and
Corozal, and for the inland towns of Benque Viejo, San Ignacio/Santa Helena and Orange Walk. The
investments will expand and improve the selected existing urban drainage conveyance systems along
existing waterways and main roads in those towns in order to reduce flooding and/or minimize the impact
of flooding. The maintenance of the drainage projects financed under the loan will be the responsibility
of MOWT. However, in order to improve the institutional maintenance framework, the loan will finance
a study to strengthen MOWT's capacity to administer the sector, and develop a drainage maintenance
management plan. In addition, the storm-water management strategy and urban development policies and
regulations aspects will be discussed throughout project implementation in order to improve sustainability
of the drainage investments.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
1. Upgrading the National Road Network:  Roads         8.48   46.1       5.50    65
1.1 . Burrell Boom Bypass (20 km)
1.2 Burrell Boom Bridge
2. Roads Maintenance Initiative                         1.15    6.3      0.75     65
2.1 Maintenance by Contract Pilot
3. Flood Control Improvements            Urban         5.73   31.2       3.72     65
3.1 Drainage works in 6 towns
4. Institutional Strengthening/Capacity Bldng          2.74   14.9       2.74    100
4.1 TA/Studies/Training
5. Goods                                               0.16    0.8       0.16    100 *
Total      18.26             12.87    70
Front-end fee (1%)      0.13    0.7      0.13
Total Financing Required    18.39  100.0      13.00    70
* All the expenses for Goods are expected to be foreign.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
These include: (i) ensuring that appropriate attention is paid to road maintenance, including the provision
of adequate budgetary allocations; (ii) increasing the participation of the private sector in road
maintenance activities; (iii) improving the selection, planning and prioritization of road construction and
rehabilitation projects; (iv) strengthening the planning and programming functions for the transport
sector; (v) improving road safety; and (vi) improving the institutional maintenance framework for
municipal drainage.



Page 6
3. Benefits and target population:
The population at large will benefit from the proposed improvements to the road network and to the
drainage system. The upgrading of Burrell Boom Road will reduce transport costs; more specifically,
vehicle operating costs and travel time reductions will be realized from an improved surface (paved road),
and from eliminating the need to go through Belize City during the rainy season, when the existing
Burrell Boom Road is frequently impassable. The successful implementation of the road maintenance
pilot initiative and the Government commitment to expand it, will result in a better maintained network
which, in turn, will reduce transport costs and, more importantly, future investments necessary to
rehabilitate the road network.
The proposed drainage investments will reduce floods and flood-associated safety and health risks to local
urban populations, thus improving the quality of life. Also, the proposed drainage improvements will
reduce property damage during heavy rains, thus enhancing local property values. The reduction in the
frequency and range of flood-caused damages and related complications would improve the efficiency of
the productive and commercial sectors in the affected towns. Furthermore, these investments would
lower the frequency of urban road washouts, allowing for better vehicle communication, transport of
goods, evacuation of people and lower road repair costs. An additional tangible benefit of the proposed
investments is the provision of employment during the execution of the works.
The institutional strengthening to be provided under the project is targeted at rationalizing transport sector
management and improving municipal drainage operation and maintenance practices. The preparation of
a comprehensive national transport strategy with the participation of the TCC and a strong counterpart
team, will increase the capacity of the Government to produce balanced transport investment plans and to
rank those investments in terms of their economic priority. In addition, the GOB's commitment to
implement the road safety strategy to be developed under the project will bring about a reduction in road
accidents and related costs. Finally, the improvement of the drainage maintenance practices will reduce
GOB's future reconstruction/ rehabilitation costs.
In terms of target population, the project would benefit four major groups. First, road users would benefit
from traveling over an improved network. Second, residents of the municipalities where drainage
improvements will be made would benefit from the improved drainage system, and from a lower
frequency of flood-related complications. Third, the construction industry would benefit from the works
to be implemented under the project. And fourth, the general population would benefit from increased
economic activity and employment opportunities generated by the works to be financed under the loan.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
GeneraL   Project implementation will be the responsibility of MOWT, the ministry responsible for
roads, bridges, drains and streets in towns and villages, waterways and the maintenance of public
buildings. It has a permanent staff of 184, of which 12 are fully certified professionals and 17 are
technicians. In addition, 255 temporary employees are hired yearly for routine maintenance activities.
MOWT's procedures for externally funded projects are effective and transparent. The supervision of
works is entrusted to consulting firms (mostly foreign), normally with good results. The existing Project
Execution Unit (PEU) established within MOWT for the implementation of the IDB Southern Highway
Loan, is now responsible for all externally funded projects (CDB, EU, etc). Funds are being made
available under the project to strengthen the PEU with additional staff and equipment so it can adequately
carry out the project activities.



Page 7
Financial Management and Accounting. As part of the project preparation, the Bank performed an
assessment of MOWT's financial management and accounting systems, including the identification of the
areas that require strengthening, in order to meet the requirements of the Bank's OP 10.02 for the
provision of accurate and timely information on project resources and expenditures. Since the PEU in
MOWT is already managing internationally funded development projects, it was found to have significant
existing capacity, which can be built on for the Bank project by adding necessary skilled staff, office
equipment and vehicles. An agreement was reached during the project preparation that a Special Account
will be opened and maintained in Belize Central Bank. The primary objective of the Special Account is to
help the Borrower overcome cash flow problems and speed disbursements from revolving accounts
funded with an advance from the loan and used exclusively to cover the Bank's share of eligible
expenditure.
An adequate financial management system will be implemented for this project, including internal control
systems that: (i) are in accord with international accounting standards; (ii) reliably record and report all
assets, liabilities and financial transactions of the project; (iii) provide sufficient financial information for
managing and monitoring project activities (detailed accounts will be kept for each project component
and for its sub-components, according to a chart of accounts agreed upon at appraisal); and (iv)allow
retroactive financing to be made on account of payments made for the eligible expenditures in an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$ 1,300,000.00.
The Bank has introduced a new loan administration process -- the Loan Administration Change Initiative
(LACI) -- which integrates project accounting, procurement, contract management, disbursement, and
auditing with physical progress through a new Project Management Report. LACI has been successfully
implemented by the Belize Social Investment Fund Project (BSIF) and will be phased in to this project.
However, it is anticipated that, at least initially, disbursements for this project will be effected via
traditional procedures (SOEs).
Progress Reporting. The project will produce Project Management Reports (PMRs) on a quarterly basis,
which will contain information on financial, physical and procurement progress. These reports will be
prepared no later than three weeks after the end of each quarter. In addition, annual financial statements
(to be included in the audit report) will be required. It was agreed that the financial year for the project
will match the government's fiscal year. Therefore the first audit report would be for the period ending
March 31, 2001. Guidelines for the content of the annual audit report have been provided to the PEU.
Auditing Arrangements. An external auditor, acceptable to the Bank, has been contracted by the PEU
to carry out an annual financial audit of the project. The auditor was selected in accordance with Bank's
"Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", dated January
1997, revised September 1997, so that interim audits can be performed throughout the first year of project
implementation. The project financial statements, the Special Account, and the Statements of Expenditure
(or later, PMRs), will be audited at the end of each fiscal year during project implementation. The audit
would include: (i) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to monitor
expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of the project-financed assets; (ii) a
determination as to whether the borrower and the PEU (MOWT) have maintained adequate
documentation on all relevant transactions; (iii) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank are
eligible for financing; and (iv) identification of any ineligible expenditures. Copies of the audit reports
will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the country's fiscal year (April I - March
31).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Options for road and drainage works were considered during project preparation. In the case of roads,
two subprojects were initially considered and dropped. One was the construction of a new bridge to cross
the Macal River at San Ignacio/Santa Elena. A number of possible locations for this bridge were studied.
All studies, including full environmental assessment and economic evaluation were completed for the



Page 8
selected location; however, the Government administration that took office in August 1998 decided to
postpone the construction of the bridge and to prolong the use of the existing one-lane bridge by investing
local funds on its rehabilitation. Another subproject option considered was the construction of a bypass at
the municipality of Orange Walk for trucks and tractors carrying cane from production areas located to
the north of Orange Walk to the BSI mill located to the south of the town. This option was dropped
because of the difficulties encountered in the definition of the bypass alignment, time required for the
feasibility study and eventual land acquisition requirements. Financing of this project is currently being
considered by CDB.
On road maintenance, one of the options considered was to strengthen the force-account capacity of
MOWT by providing technical assistance at both the central and district levels. This option was dropped
during project preparation when the new administration expressed its strong commitment to increase
private sector involvement in road maintenance and reduce force-account activities. Another option
examined as part of project preparation was the implementation of a pilot project to introduce the use of
micro-enterprises for routine maintenance activities on the paved road network. However, this pilot was
dropped for two basic reasons: first, its cost was found to be high; and second, the future role of micro-
enterprises under the proposed maintenance by contract programs would be uncertain.
In the case of municipal drainage, the original plan was to finance small drainage works in fewer
municipalities under the Bank's ongoing Belize Social Investment Fund (BSIF) Project. However, due to
the extensive drainage needs, the GOB requested that the Bank include a more comprehensive drainage
component covering six municipalities in the transport loan under preparation. The Bank agreed to this
request and increased the transport loan by US$ 3 million (at that point the project name was changed
from Transport Project to the current Roads and Municipal Drainage Project).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
(closed, ongoing and planned)
n P               :   nImplemenb tion   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
B2ank-financed
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation  Road Maintenance and        S                S
Rehabilitation Project: Loan
2273-BEL (closed)
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation  Second Road Maintenance     S                S
and Rehabilitation Project:
Improvement of urban infrastructure   Loan 2945-BEL (closed)     S                S
and institution building         Belize City Infrastructure
Project: L3667-BEL (closed)
Other development agencies
Main road improvements           Southern Highway Project
Main road improvement            Upgrading of the
Main road improvement            Stann Creek Valley Road
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Bank involvement in the transport sector in Belize started with Loan 2273-BEL (Road Maintenance and
Rehabilitation Project) for US$5.3 million which was approved in May 1983. The project was designed
to support a 4-year road maintenance and rehabilitation program to be implemented by MOWT, and to
strengthen MOWT's maintenance capacity through technical assistance and the procurement of road
maintenance equipment. Despite the limitations, at the time, of the local construction industry (contractors
were under-capitalized and lacked management skills), the project was successful in the implementation
of the civil works components. With respect to the institutional components, some success was achieved
in the implementation of a maintenance system at MOWT's district level; however, the lack of support
from higher levels and the limited number of qualified staff prevented MOWT from taking full advantage
of the program.
In July 1988, the Bank approved Loan 2945-BEL (Second Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project)
for US$5.6 million. The objectives of this loan were to continue Bank support to upgrade and rehabilitate
the road network; to strengthen the management of the network, especially road maintenance
management; and to improve the coordination capacity among the different government ministries and
agencies involved in the transport sector. The loan included a pilot program (two pilot projects) to
introduce routine maintenance by contract. One of the pilot projects was successful; it covered the
execution of routine maintenance activities over two years on a section of the Northern Highway. A
similar pilot on the Southern Highway ran into unexpected problems when no response was received at
the first invitation for bids and the only bid received in the second attempt was not considered responsive.
The reasons given for the low interest were: (i) concern of having to maintain a road whose condition was
known to deteriorate rapidly as a result of the weather and varying traffic usage; and (ii) operational
concerns regarding the delivery of logistic support to the works site, given that the project area was
relatively distant from population and commercial centers. This project was eventually completed by
force account.
Although the pilot projects were partially successful, the full achievement of the Northern Highway pilot
demonstrated that contracting maintenance is technically valid if the scope of work is well focussed and
explicit. The Project Completion Report recommends that contracting maintenance merits further
exploration by MOWT. The lessons drawn from these pilots have been used in the final design and
implementation of the pilot projects to be financed under this loan. On the other hand, the road
rehabilitation works financed under the Loan 2945-BEL were completed in a timely manner and the
quality of construction was good. Furthermore, the project was instrumental in the development of
competitive local construction firms capable of producing quality work.
The last infrastructure loan financed by the Bank was Loan 3667-BEL (Belize City Infrastructure Project)
for US$ 20 million. The project financed street and drainage improvements in Belize City and the
strengthening of Belize City's capacity to maintain its infrastructure, manage its solid waste, and improve
the delivery of urban services. The project works were well conceived and designed with innovative
ways of overcoming space constraints, and difficult geographical, geological, and hydrological
conditions. The canal and drainage works financed under the project have contributed to a reduction in
the areas of Belize City subjected to flooding, and they are likely to contribute to improved health
conditions. Strengthening of the City's capacity for infrastructure maintenance and service delivery has
not been fully implemented, but the project established a good base to facilitate such implementation in
the future.
An overall assessment of the above loans indicates that in most cases the physical targets included in the
projects were met; however, the institutional development targets were only partially achieved. Similarly,
planning and programming procedures, especially for road maintenance, continue to require increased
emphasis. Furthermore, the institutional development components of the project should be compatible



Page 10
with the absorptive capacity of the recipient institution. These lessons have been taken into account in the
design of this project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government attaches a very high priority to the upgrading of the Burrell Boom Road and to the
improvement of drainage works in the six municipalities. The GOB financed with its own resources the
preparation of detailed engineering studies (BECA International Consultants) for the Burrell Boom Road
and requested that the Bank include retroactive financing in the loan for the reimbursement of the cost of
the drainage studies carried out by Halcrow Consultants. The Government is fully committed to
increasing the participation of the private sector in road maintenance activities and is working on the
formation of the TCC to increase coordination among the various Government ministries and other
agencies in the development of the transport sector. Furthermore, the MOWT has initiated preliminary
work on the national transport strategy and road safety matters.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The GOB has requested the Bank to continue its assistance in improving road and municipal drainage
infrastructure, and to support MOWT's strategy to involve the private sector in road maintenance
activities. Bank support will: (i) bring in necessary additional financial resources to help carry out the
project components; (ii) bring in global and regional experience and best practice in contracting road
maintenance activities and in designing sustainable road maintenance schemes; (iii) help accelerate
institutional development in transport planning, road maintenance and road safety; and (iv) improve
practices in the analysis of the implementation of environmental aspects of projects. Also, Bank
knowledge of the municipal drainage needs of the country, acquired mostly through the implementation
of the BCIP, will facilitate the implementation of the drainage component to be financed under the loan.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis
Burrell Boom Road rehabilitation: The benefits from the road improvements can be quantified as they
consist largely of savings in vehicle operating costs (voc) and in travel time. The current traffic volume is
estimated at about 600 vehicles per day (vpd). Due to the current poor condition of some sections of the
road, the proposed rehabilitation will typically produce a  30 - 40% reduction in operating costs,
depending on vehicle type. Time savings have been computed also as the improved roads will facilitate
higher average operating speeds. In addition, the diversion of some north/south bound traffic onto the
project road and the consequent reduction of traffic, particularly heavy traffic, away from the Belize City
streets will improve the overall regional and city traffic flow patterns. Non-quantifiable benefits will
include the improvements in overall planning and programming procedures, especially for maintenance.
The ERR estimate is 20.1%, based on the conservative assumptions made for traffic growth and vehicle
operating cost (VOC) savings. Sensitivity analyses, ranging between a 20% decrease in benefits or
increase in costs, and for 10% to 15% traffic diversion rates provide an ERR range of 14.3% and 20.8%.
The project is not subject to unusual risks with respect to its implementation, and the use of consultants
and contractors with adequate experience will ensure proper execution of the project.
Drainage improvements: The proposed program would provide an efficient system to remove water
resulting from heavy rain storms and thereby provide significant quantifiable and non-quantifiable
benefits to the towns. Some of the quantifiable benefits would include a reduction in flooding and hence
damage from flooding, the avoidance of interruptions and time losses during floods, and increases in
property values as a result of improved amenities and living conditions. The non-quantifiable benefits will



Page 1 1
be important too and will accrue also to adjacent catchments. Annex 4 provides a cost benefit summary
and the results of the analysis and includes main features of the investments in each town.
The drainage program (31% of total project cost), was found to be justified economically with an overall
ERR of 32.9%. On average, only about an 18% increase in property values is required to justify the
proposed investments at a 12% discount rate. The sensitivity analysis further demonstrates the robustness
of the project as the rate of return is still acceptable even with 20% increases in costs or decreases in
benefits.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
Financial Analysis: No financial analysis was warranted, since primarily the project involves the works
for the upgrading of a road, bridge, and improvements to the municipal drainage systems, along with
technical assistance and training components. There are no revenue-earning project components.
Financial Management and Accounting (see section C.4 above). An adequate financial management
system will be implemented for this project, including internal control systems that: (i) are in accord with
international accounting standards; (ii) reliably record and report all assets, liabilities and financial
transactions of the project; and (iii) provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring
project activities. Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and for its sub-components,
according to a chart of accounts agreed upon at appraisal. The project expenditures may be paid by
government pre-financing, till such time the loan becomes effective.
Fiscal impact. The GOB has so far spent about US$ 0.8 million from its own administrative budget for
technical analysis for this project. The GOB financed the preparation of the feasibility study and detailed
design for the road and bridge component; and Halcrow Consultants carried out the feasibility studies
(environmental assessment, and the technical, financial and economic analysis) for the proposed drainage
works in the six selected towns. For the proposed IBRD loan, the counterpart funding requirements
would amount to about US $5.4 million over 4 years (less than 1% of GOB's budget per year). In
addition, the GOB would incur incremental debt service obligations of less than US $1 million equivalent
to about 0.15% of 1998 GDP (or about 0.45% of budget) over each of the next three years. The
incremental gains from the stimulation of private sector activities and more tax revenues from increased
private production that could be attributed to the project impact is expected to more than offset the
incremental debt service obligations. The GOB's share of funding for the project will be provided
through Government's public investments and savings, coupled with the growth in the agriculture sector,
specifically, in sugar and bananas, and through tourism promotion.
3. Technical:
The road and bridge designs and reports prepared by the consultants were studied with the officials of
MOWT and with the consultants during the project preparation phase. A number of options were
discussed in order to reduce the construction costs without significantly impacting the environmental
standards while maintaining the design standards consistent with the Northern and Western Highways.
The consultants' revised technical and economic analysis resulted in an improved road design and in a
reduction in the overall estimated cost. The main road elements that were modified included alignments
and curves, embankment slopes, as well as shoulder widths to make them consistent with the standards
used in the other main roads. Also, available on-site subgrade material will be used instead of importing
this material from a remote quarry, as was originally planned.
On the municipal drainage component, the consultants carried out detailed studies of each of the
subprojects identified in the six towns. The studies included: preparation of designs, cost estimates,
economic and environmental analyses, and land acquisition issues. The criteria for the selection of the
priority interventions were developed based on which sub-projects have been selected to be financed
under the loan.



Page 12
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: Ministry of Works and Transport (MOWT), through its Project Execution Unit
(PEU).
b. Project management: The PEU, aided by consultants (separate consulting firms will be retained to
supervise the road and the drainage works). The terms of reference for the supervision services were
reviewed and approved by the Bank. The PEU is currently carrying out activities related to the control,
monitoring and implementation of infrastructure projects funded by several international development
agencies (CDB, DFID, IDB). The additional skilled staff has been added and necessary equipment is
acquired to strengthen PEU's capacity to implement this project. The project has made an allowance to
finance consultant services to assist the PEU in this task and to procure the necessary additional
equipment.
5. Social:
It was understood through the studies and site visits that there were no significant issues concerning the
presence of indigenous people or resettlement at the project sites. The rehabilitation and improvements
are to be carried out substantially on the existing alignments.
6. Environmental assessment:      Environmental Category  [x] A    [ ] B   [ ] C
Date of Receipt of EA: December 10, 1999.
Road Component. The Burrell Boom Road will be improved from gravel to double surface treatment on
the existing alignment, with the exception of the construction of a 2.2 km by-pass of the Town of Burrell
Boom. The project will not cause direct environmental impacts, other than those linked to the
construction process itself, and they are addressed in a comprehensive construction environmental
management plan, which is part of bidding documents and contracts. This plan also sets guidelines for
construction monitoring by the Department of the Environment (DOE) and defines chance finding
procedures for archaeological artifacts in coordination with the Department of Archaeology (DOA).
Drainage Component: This component includes the rehabilitation and/or expansion of storm-water
drainage networks in six towns: three along the coast (Dangriga, Punta Gorda and Corozal), and three
inland (San Ignacio, Benque Viejo and Orange Walk). Because of the construction of new canals and the
potential sensitivity of some of the sites, especially those along the coast, the project was assigned a
Category A for environmental purposes, and a full EIA report was prepared. Since the EIA was prepared
by the engineering consultants in charge of project design, an independent consultant was retained to
review the EIA report and prepare a summary.
The EIA report recommends the implementation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the
drainage component which includes: (i) a program to strengthen the in-situ protection of the Gra Gra
Lagoon, including TA for the legal protection from Punta Gorda to the National Botanical Gardens in
Belize City; (ii) archaeological salvage and surveys along all proposed canal alignments in Corozal prior
to construction and continuous monitoring and chance finding procedures during construction in all
towns; (iii) environmental education and public awareness programs; (iv) TA on urban zoning; and (v)
specific rules for contractors regarding the management of construction wastes and the disposal of
excavation materials.
Resettlement: No involuntary resettlement will result from the implementation of this project.



Page 13
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The EIA report has been presented to the DOE, and is available to interested parties both at DOE and
MOWT. The report has also been made available in the Public Information Center of the World Bank in
Washington. A summary of the EIA report is presented in Annex 11.
Social surveys were undertaken by Halcrow Consultants in the selected municipalities to assess the
magnitude of the flooding problem and the effects of flooding on the households, and to understand the
community concerns regarding flooding. Storm-water drainage rehabilitation and improvements will
benefit all town dwellers, facilitating access to commercial areas, schools and services to pedestrians as
well as automobiles. Project information posters have been designed and placed in all town halls.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Experience from completed Bank projects in Belize shows that the country has done a satisfactory job in
implementing highway and drainage projects. The key factor affecting sustainability is expected to be the
timely maintenance of roads and drainage works which is, in turn, a function of the available budgets.
The sustainability for the drainage component will be improved through the strengthening of MOWT's
capacity to effectively manage drainage maintenance activities. The sustainability of road maintenance
activities will be enhanced by the introduction of multi-year maintenance contracts through the pilot
project and the development of maintenance financing mechanisms. Finally, the formation of the TCC
will result in improved overall coordination in the development of the transport sector.
2. Critical Risks:
From Outputs to Objective
*  Inadequate priority assigned by the            *   More frequent dialogue/ meetings with
Government to institutional                      the Government of ficials
strengthening
.  No timely provision of counterpart     H       *  The Loan Agreement covenants will
funds                                             cover the provision of adequate funds.
.  Not enough private sector participation  M     *  MOWT to ensure that contracts offer
in the pilot project                             due incentives to bidders
*  Uncontrolled soil erosion during the   M       *  Design engineer to include appropriate
construction of unlined and lined                 clauses in the contract documents,
channels                                          with which the contractor will be
required to comply
*  Endangered habitats and flood plain           *  Monitoring of environmental
flora are not protected                M          management plans and obtaining of
___________    ___    necessary licenses



Page 14
From Components to Outputs
*  Not all agencies involved in the       M      *  The creation of TCC will ensure
national transportation and road safety          participation and necessary interaction
functions participate actively in the            between the agencies
project implementation and
development of strategies
*  Environmental mitigation measures      M      *  Full coordination is exercised between
are not implemented                              DOE, MOWT; Bank team to oversee it
*  Verifications of the acquisition Right        *  MOWT to verify that Right of Ways
of way to the Bank is not done before  M         are cleared in a timely manner prior to
the contractor mobilizes at the site.            the project implementation
*  Proposed road maintenance pilot does          *  During project preparation phase, the
not attract necessary participants from          local contractors were informed, the
private sector                                   dialogue will continue during launching
M          of the pilot
*  Procurement packages are not           M      *  The fair incentives to be included for
attractive to international bidders,             international contractors to participate,
where ICB is specified                           respecting the local procurement laws
*  No qualified government personnel      M      *  Training programs to be tailored to
available to staff PEU (MOWT);                   meet the requirements attractive to the
local qualified personnel at MOWT
.  Inadequate planning to carry out              *  The executing agency in the MOWT
drainage works in the selected towns  M          and DOE to ensure proper planning
beforehand and Bank to supervise and
support it through the technical
assistance
Overall Risk Rating                       M      I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Negotiation Conditions: (complied.)
(i)   that the capacity of PEU has been enhanced through the addition of qualified staff (an engineer,
an inspector and an assistant accountant) and the procurement of necessary equipment (vehicle,
computers and other office equipment) to support the PEU activities; and
(ii)   that financial management and control systems have been established in the PEU, and an external
auditor, acceptable to the Bank, has been contracted.
2. Board Presentation Conditions:
(i)   that the Transport Coordination Committee (TCC) has been established and is meeting
periodically; and
(ii)   that the Project Operational Manual has been finalized and distributed to PEU staff.



Page 15
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] 1. The engineering design documents are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[X] 2. The procurement documents are complete and ready for the start of project implementation.
[Xl 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader:  uillermfo-Ruan
Sector Manager/firetor: Danny  eipiigel
Country Manager/Director: Oralia)*alantzopoulos



Annex I
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators    Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:            Sector / Country  (from Goal to Bank
Reports:         Mission)
(i) improving the quality of    Completed drainage
life of the urban population by  improvements needed to protect   Periodical reports:  Government develops land
providing adequate drainage    infrastructure in six towns,  Project        use plans to secure natural
systems to reduce flooding  including in the Cayo and Toledo   Management   drainage routes
and the impact of flooding in   districts.                Report (PMR);
six municipalities; (ii)                                  supervision       Government continues to
increasing the participation of  Increasing private sector  report; and audit   encourage private sector
the private sector in the  participation in road maintenance  report        participation in the
upgrading and maintenance of  activities Upgrading of the                   rehabilitation and
basic infrastructure; and (iii)    Burrell Boom Road to ensure year  Periodic missions  maintenance of infrastructure
strengthening the regulatory    round transit
framework and planning                                    Implementation    Government continues to
capacity of the public sector.   Strengthening of MOWT's  Completion        follow the agreed
planning, implementation and  Report            macroeconomic policies and
monitoring capacities.                          development agenda
Project Development         Outcome / Impact Indicators:    Project Reports:  (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
At the project completion:
1. To improve year-round   1. Verification of 10% traffic  Follow-up traffic   Enough financing is made
traffic flows on the national    volume increase, and more than    surveys and  available for project
road network                30% reduction in vehicle      vehicle operating   implementation
operating cost on Burrell Boom  cost studies
Road. Reduce travel time to                     GOB maintains its
access the airport from the   Follow-up         commitment to the
western region of the country by   beneficiary  involvement of the private
about 20-30 minutes by using  surveys on flood   sector in road maintenance
Burrell Boom Rd. instead of   conditions
going through Belize City.                      Once the drainage works and
Bank reports     improvements are
2. To improve natural drainage  2. More than 10% increase in  (supervision  implemented, MOWT takes
to reduce floods and/or the  value of the affected properties    mission and mid-   up the responsibility for
impact of floods in selected  one year after completion;  term review)      maintaining the drainage
municipalities                                                              schemes
Other government
3. To assess the potential  3. The length of the road network  reports      Private sector interested in
private sector participation in   maintained by the private sector          road maintenance
road maintenance activities    increased by 120 km
Improved coordination
4 To improve the            4. MOWT's planning and                          among the different
management of the transport   programming improved as                       ministries and other agencies
sector, including transport  evidenced through the preparation              involved in transport sector
policy coordination among the  of five year development plans               planning
different government       for the transport sector.
ministries and agencies                                                     Training programs for the
involved in the transport                                                   staff, supervisors and
sector                                                                      contractors, implemented



Output for each component:  Output Indicators:             Project Reports:  (from Outputs to Objective)
1. Important road linkage   1. The completed road and bridge                 Timely provision of
between the Northern and    meets agreed highway standards   Technical audit    counterpart funds
Western highways upgraded    as evidenced by the reduction in   reports
for all-season use          pavement roughness from 8 to 2;   Supervision    Soil erosion during the
and the increase in vehicle speeds  mission reports    construction of unlined and
from 30 km/hr to 50 km/hr      Evaluation       lined channels is controlled
mission reports    through adopting prudent
2. Improved natural drainage,   2. Improve environmental   (mid-term &       techniques
reducing flood damage in six   awareness through the       Implementation
municipalities through priority  implementation of an awareness    Completion  The proposed work involved
storm drainage improvements  program                       Report)           in the pilot project attracts
Special evaluation  necessary participants from
3. Involved private sector to   3. Private sector interest in road   report on pilot  private sector
carry out roads maintenance,   maintenance works increased, the  efforts for private
demonstrated, tested and    number of registered contractors   sector
documented through a pilot    doubled from 7 at the start of the   involvement in  Endangered habitats and
project                     pilot to the completion        road maintenance  flood plain flora are protected
activities
Periodic road     Adequate priority assigned
4. Fostering the preparation of  4. National Transport Sector and   condition  by the Govermment for
national transport sector and    Road Safety strategies report  inventories  institutional strengthening
road safety strategies, and the   drafted and approved; transport    Annual analyses
implementation of a transport  sector database completed and  of the costs and
database and training program   operational                performance of
contractors
Analysis of town
expenditures on
post flood
cleanups
National
Transport Sector
and Road Safety
Strategy Reports
Other government
________________________________  reports
Project Components/Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each       Project Reports:  (from Components to
components:                 component)                                       Outputs)
1. Burrell Boom Road        1. US$ 8.48 million            Disbursement      Procurement packages are
Improvements                                               reports (quarterly)  attractive to international
bidders, where ICB specified
2. Priority Urban Storm     2. US$ 5.73 million            Progress reports
Drainage and Flood                                         (quarterly)       Environmental mitigation
Mitigation Works (6 urban                                                    measures are implemented
areas)                                                     Audit reports
3. Road Maintenance by      3. US$ 1.15 million            (annual)          Adequate pre-planning to
Contract: Pilot Project                                                      carry out drainage works
4. Institutional Strength. and    4. US$ 2.74 million                        Qualified government
Capacity Building;                                                           personnel available to staff
- National Transport Sector                                                  PEU (MOWT)
Strategy and Data Base;
- National Road Safety                                                       Right of way acquisition is
Strategy;                                                                    complete
- Pilot Project-Related TA and                                               Proposed pilot attracts
Studies;                                                                     necessary participants from
- Environment-Related TA                                                     private sector.



and Studies;                                                               All agencies involved in the
- Road and Drainage                                                        national transportation and
Supervision Services;                                                      road safety functions
- PEU Consultant Support;                                                  participate actively in the
- Training Program                                                         development of strategies
5. Goods.                  5. US$ 0.16 million



Annex 2
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Project Description
Project Components:
Component 1 - US$ 8.48 million (including contingencies)
Burrell Boom Road Improvements
This component will finance the improvement of a 20km road section which connects the Northern
Highway to the Western Highway bypassing Belize City (this road is often referred to as the Burrell
Boom Bypass).
Background. The Burrell Boom Road joins the Northern Highway at a point located approximately
24km to the north of Belize City, and the Western Highway at a point 21km west of Belize City. Vehicle
traffic traveling between the northern and western areas of the country can use this road to avoid the need
to enter Belize City. Once completed, the access to Belize International Airport from any point to the
west or south of Belize City will be improved substantially.
Road and Bridge-present condition. The topography of the area is flat, and the road crosses swampy
and flood-prone ground next to Belize River. The road is in parts sealed with bituminous surface,
graveled and has earth patches in other areas. The level of the road in some sections is below the
surrounding land, which results in surface flooding after moderate or heavy rainfall. During the dry
season, dust generation from traffic usage is substantial. The road is narrow, less than 8 meters wide with
non standard curves and cross section formation of the pavement structure. The road side drainage system
is inadequate and incompatible to the strategic need of the road. The existing Acrow Panel single lane
bridge over the Belize River is about 75m (250 ft) long and has a total vehicle weight restriction of 50
tons.
The proposed improvements. The improvements include: (i) upgrading of the existing gravel road to a
8.7 meter wide two lane asphalt road, built over an embankment with improved geometric design to the
standards of the main road network; (ii) a new diversion road to bypass the Burrell Boom Village; (iii)
upgrading of the Burrell Boom Bridge by replacing the existing superstructure with a new two lane
structure. The new structure will comprise steel girders and composite cast in situ concrete using the
existing piers and abutments, including the rehabilitation of the road approach to the village. The
upgrading of the bridge will eliminate the current weight restrictions and increase axle loading to 9 ton
standard, thereby allowing passage of large trucks.
Advantages of Upgrading the Road. The main advantages of upgrading of the Burrell Boom Road are:
(i) establishing a safe high-speed route that will enable heavy traffic to bypass Belize City; (ii) improving
and shortening the link between Belmopan and the International Airport by about 10 kin; (iii) providing a
key alternative route for traffic travelling between the northern, western and southern districts of Belize;
and (iv) facilitating commercial and tourism opportunities to Burrell Boom and villages further west. For
these reasons, the Government of Belize has decided to upgrade the Burrell Boom road to a main road
standard.
Subproject Costs. Burrell Boom Road, US$6.8m, Burrell Boom Bridge, US$0.6m, Contingencies,
US$1.Im.



Component 2 - US$ 1.15 million (including contingencies)
Maintenance by Contract at a MOWT District - Pilot Project
This pilot project will finance the implementation of roads maintenance by contract (MBC) at one or
more of MOWT's seven districts (under study for final selection) in accordance with the Ministry's
objectives of promoting participation of the private sector in the maintenance of the road network. At
present, the Ministry manages the maintenance of the road network through seven maintenance districts
(Corozal, Orange Walk, Belize, Belmopan, Cayo, Stann Creek, Toledo).
Most of the activities pertaining to the maintenance of the roads are currently carried out by force
account. MOWT districts have limited experience of contracting with the private sector specific
maintenance activities. However, MOWT is fully convinced that progressive involvement and
participation of private contractors and consultants in the maintenance activities will result in improved
efficiency and better management of the road network. However, in view of the limited earlier
experience, MOWT has decided to start MBC with a pilot project in one of the districts and gradually
continue with the process until all districts are capable of managing MBC in their respective road
networks. With the implementation of the Pilot Project, it is expected that the District Technical
Supervisor (DTS) will need high level training in different areas such as contracting and project
management, in order to be knowledgeable in dealing with private sector contractors.
Contracting arrangements (unit prices, standards). Maintenance contracts will be awarded through a
bidding process limited to local firms. Unit prices will be initially used for contracting purposes, as local
contractors and govemment officials are currently only familiar with this type of contract. Additionally,
the Ministry does not have specific performance standards for road maintenance activities. The lack of
these standards would make the assessment of the contractors' performance during the early stages of the
pilot project very difficult. It is suggested that periodic comparative analyses be carried out between the
performance of the District Personnel (force account) and the perfornance of the MBC contractors. As
the contractors and the government officials gain experience and confidence in the system, performance
standards can be developed based on different levels of accomplishment and used for rating performance
and approving payments.
Institutional Arrangements required for Pilot Project implementation. In order for the project to be
properly monitored, controlled and managed, the Maintenance Departnent will be strengthened and given
full decision-making authority to execute the activities involved at the District level. This Department will
be provided with a vehicle and two computers with printers.
Cost of Pilot Project. The estimated cost of the Pilot Project is US$ 1.15 million. This cost includes:
(i) Technical Assistance. Technical assistance required for supporting project implementation and pilot
project evaluation. The cost of these items has been estimated based on an average cost of man-months,
including salaries, per diem, plane tickets, use of vehicles and general expenses.
(ii) Goods. This item includes the purchase of 2 light vehicles (I district, I Maintenance Department), 3
computers/printers (I district, 2 headquarters). Unit prices are based on current market prices in Belize
without import duties.
(iii)Physical Works. This item includes physical works that will be carried out by the contractors, and
measured on a unit price basis. The two periodic maintenance main activities included within this item are
grading and regravelling. The unit prices estimated for this item have been determined based on the
productivity and cost data collected at the district offices, to which some adjustments have been made.
(iv) Supervision. This item includes all the activities related to the professional supervision of the physical
works and will be the responsibility of private consultants.



Component 3 - US$ 5.73 million (including contingencies)
Drainage-related Works for selected municipalities
This component will finance the priority drainage interventions in the selected major towns, including:
Dangriga, Punta Gorda, Benque Viejo, San Ignacio/ Santa Elena, Orange Walk, and Corozal; located in
five districts of Belize. The size, scope and the estimated costs for canying out the works vary from site
to site. However, the typical drainage works include improvement of culverts, ditches, dredging and canal
lining, roadside drains, outfalls, coastal erosion control, and some environmental improvement works.
The rains and river high tides cause frequent flooding in the municipal areas which, due to the lack of an
adequate drainage system, causes flooding of streets and properties, resulting in the disruption of daily
lives of the citizens. Under the Belize City Infrastructure Project (BCIP) in 1996, Halcrow Consultants
carried out needs assessment and feasibility studies of the municipal infrastructure aspects including the
storm water drainage improvements in the above mentioned selected towns. Halcrow's original work
included gathering of topographic and hydrographic surveys, carrying out technical, financial
environmental and economic studies and the preparation of preliminary designs for the priority drainage
works.
The present Government plans to implement the priority works under this project. The studies and
designs for the overall drainage improvement work in the six towns have been completed. MOWT is
responsible for implementation and also for the maintenance of the drainage of the works. A brief
description of the proposed priority works selected from the overall program to be financed under this
project in each town is as follows:
PUNTA GORDA (pop. 5010), is located in the south of the country by the sea. The proposed projects for
this town involve the enlargement of the North East Magoon Drain in the northeast section of the town,
that runs mostly through private property and discharges into the sea.
DANGRIGA (pop. 7390), is located by the sea and is divided into two parts by the Stan Creek river. The
proposed interventions require the construction of a network of canals that connect both the Stan Creek
river and the sea, allowing perennial flow. Gated structures are also proposed at the beginning of the
canals to avoid the entrance of large floods. The canals will be a combination of lined and unlined
structures.
COROZAL (pop. 8085), is located very close to the Mexican border by the sea, in the northern part of the
country. The proposed drainage works for this town include the enlargement of a number of Magoon
drains and some permanent works (groins), that drain to the north and the south part of the town into the
sea. Corozal is built over an ancient town and although no large archeological findings are expected, care
will need to be exercised during the construction of the proposed works.
BENQUE VIEJO (pop. 6200), is located close to the border with Guatemala, in a hilly environment. The
proposed works include the enlargement of an existing drain that crosses the town (Central Main Drain),
and the two roadside drains (at Liberty and George Street) that receive the storm water from the other
parts of the town and discharge them into the Mopan river.
SAN IGNACIO/SANTA HELENA (pop. 11570), are twin towns located on both sides of the eastern
branch of the Belize River. The proposed works comprise the drainage of the Salazar Street, George Price
Avenue and the final part of the John Martinez Road drain including the river outfall.
ORANGE WALK (pop 15000), is located on the Northern Highway alongside the Belize River. The
proposed projects include: the enlargement of an existing drain that runs along Dunn Street and
discharges in an existing pond; and improvements to the San Lorenzo Road culvert.



Component 4 - US$ 2.74 million (including contingencies)
Institutional Strengthening Studies ,Supervision. And Training Program
The project will finance, the proposed technical assistance (TA) component which comprises studies,
engineering services and training of the MOWT staff, including: (i)National transport strategy/transport
database; (ii) National road safety strategy; (iii) Road maintenance and financing options; protection of
environmentally sensitive areas; (iv) zoning /urban development; (v) Drainage maintenance management
plan; (vi) Burrell Boom road/bridge supervision; (vii) Pilot project supervision/ evaluation; (viii)
Drainage works supervision; (ix) PEU support and hiring of additional staff; (x) Design of drainage
works; and (xi) Training programs for environmental education/ public awareness, public
officials/contractors, and for MOWT.



Annex 3
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Estimated Project Costs
1. Road/Bridge Works                                       2.22            5.18           7.40
2. Maintenance Pilot Project                                0.60           0.40           1.00
3. Drainage Works                                           2.00           3.00           5.00
4. TA, Studies, E    iniesr oBg Services and Training       0.24           2.37           2.61
6. Goods                                                    -              0.15           0.15
Total Baseline Cost                                         5.06          11.10          16.16
Physical Contingencies (10% on 1,2,3)                    0.47           0.87           1.34
Price Contingencies(4.7% of Baseline Cost)               0.24           0.52           0.76
Total Project Costs                   5.77           12.49          18.26
Front-end fee(l%)                      0.13           0.13
Total Financing Required              5.77           12.62          18.39
Goods                                                       -              0.15           0.15
Works                                                       4.82           8.58          13.40
Services/Training                                           0.24           2.37           2.61
Other (Contingencies-physical +price)                       0.71           1.39           2.10
Total Project Costs                   5.77           12.49          18.26
Front-end fee                     0.13            0.13
Total Financing Required               5.77          12.62          18.39



Annex 4
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Overview:
1. The project includes investments in road rehabilitation (46% of total cost) and a maintenance pilot
(6%), drainage improvements (31%), and institutional strengthening (15%) that individually and
collectively will provide a wide range of benefits to Belize. Using standard, conservative methodologies
the economic benefits to be derived from the two principal components (roads and drainage
improvements) have been analyzed individually and are outlined herein. Collectively, project support for
improved planning and programming procedures, improved design standards (especially the mitigation of
environmental impacts) and for better execution quality will help to increase the effectiveness of public
expenditures on roads and drainage improvements and help also to encourage greater participation of the
private construction industry. Furthermore, the institutional support should help to ensure that these
improvements can be sustained and that the MOWT and other project implementation agencies involved
will be better placed to cope with the evolving challenges that they are facing.
Road Improvement and Maintenance:
2. The main road investment that is to be carried out will consist of rehabilitating the 20 km Burrell
Boom road to the national standards for an all season, asphalt surfaced road. This will effectively link the
northern and the western highways and thus provide direct, high quality access to the capital city of
Belmopan to the west. It must be noted that this road is very important to the country since it constitutes
the sole bypass of Belize city for traffic from the airport and locations further north that is bound to and
from the western and southern regions.
3. The road was developed originally in the 1950s to replace the historic boat access via the Belize river
and to provide vehicle access to Boom village. It is located within a coastal plain that is subject to
periodic inundation. Over the years of use and of periodic maintenance grading, the surface level has
been lowered relative to the surrounding land to the extent that sections of the road become flooded and
impassable at times. The proposed rehabilitation will follow the existing alignment apart from a short
bypass of the Boom village and some curve realignments that are needed to improve the geometrics and
road safety characteristics along the route.
4. Traffic: The traffic volumes have been estimated on the basis of traffic counts undertaken annually
by the MOWT since 1971. These counts have been supplemented by a 5 day, 12 hour traffic count
carried out recently by the design consultants. This additional count was undertaken to help supplement
the records and to classify more accurately the vehicles currently using the road. Analysis of the data
indicated an annual traffic growth rate of about 12% throughout the route. The current traffic volume is
estimated at about 600 vehicles per day (vpd).
5. The estimate of future traffic volumes is based on a growth rate of 10% for the first 5 years following
project completion and 5% thereafter. The opening year traffic volume is thus estimated at 821vpd,
comprising 56% pickups, 20% trucks, 19% cars and 5% buses. Some 10% of it is expected to be traffic
diverted from the northern and western highways. The actual and forecast traffic levels by road section
and by vehicle type are detailed in the tables in the Project File.
6. Benefits and Beneficiaries: The road rehabilitation will provide secure, year-round access between
the north, west and south of the country. This is of strategic importance, given that this route is one of
only two routes that serve as links and that the alternative route is at a high risk during the hurricane
season. The benefits from the road improvements can be quantified as they consist largely of savings in
vehicle operating costs (voc) and in travel time. The voc and the expected road deterioration profiles have
been derived by using the Bank's HDM3 model. They are based on recent MOWT information on



operating costs for vehicles in Belize.  The replacement costs of the vehicles included in the
determination of the voc are relatively low by international standards. This arises from the fact that more
than 90% of the vehicles in Belize are second-hand ones imported from the USA.
7. Due to the very poor condition of some sections of the road now, the proposed rehabilitation will
typically produce a 30 - 40% reduction in operating costs, depending on vehicle type. Time savings have
been computed also as the improved roads will facilitate higher average operating speeds than the current
30 kph. In addition, the diversion of some north/south bound traffic onto the project road and the
consequent reduction of traffic, particularly heavy traffic, away from the Belize city streets will improve
the overall regional and city traffic flow patterns. Provision of improved geometrics, two lane crossings
of waterways to replace existing single lane timber bridges, improved visibility, asphaltic surfacing, road
marking and signage will all contribute to enhancing traffic safety. Details on the voc savings by road
section and vehicle type are included in the tables in the Project File.
8. Non-quantifiable benefits will include the improvements in overall planning and programming
procedures, especially for maintenance. This will help foster a more efficient use of resources and also
help protect national investments in current and past road improvements. Benefits to the environment and
to people living in the area will include a diversion of highway traffic away from the center of Boom
village, the elimination of current dusty road conditions and also of flood prone road sections. The
mitigation measures proposed to help minimize adverse environmental effects during and post-
construction are adequate and the costs are included in the economic analysis.
9. Economic Returns: The economic justification was based primarily on the quantifiable benefits that
can be attributed to the road rehabilitation. The investment cost excludes all taxes and duties but, given
the degree of trade openness of the economy, no exchange rate adjustments were used. The detailed
derivation of costs and benefit streams is included in the feasibility study but a comprehensive extract of
the salient features of the economic justification and the sensitivity analysis is presented in Table 4.1.
Adequate periodic and routine maintenance expenditures were included in the ERR and NPV
determinations. The ERR estimate is 20.1%, based on the conservative assumptions made for traffic
growth and voc savings. Sensitivity analyses, ranging between a 20% decrease in benefits or increase in
costs, and for 10% to 15% traffic diversion rates provide an ERR range of 14.3% and 20.8%. The
switching values on costs and on benefits are quite robust at 52% and 35% respectively.
Drainage Improvements:
10. Background: The drainage improvements to be financed under the project were selected from a list
of priority needs in 6 towns, namely Benque Viejo del Carmen, Corozal, Dangriga, Orange Walk, Punta
Gorda, and San Ignacio.   Together they account for about 22% of the population of Belize and
individually represent some of its peak urban growth areas. There are inadequacies in the existing
drainage systems in all of the project towns. In general, the problems relate to specific locations and areas
of the town. In Benque, Corozal, Dangriga, and Punta Gorda, primary drainage channels are either non-
existent or of inadequate capacity to convey the required drainage flows. In San Ignacio/Santa Elena and
Orange Walk the drainage problems are of a more specific nature and occur due to local deficiencies in
the drainage systems. However, in Dangriga, the problems are widespread and extend throughout most of
the developed area of the town.
11. The purpose of the drainage improvements proposed for each town is to provide the facilities needed
to allow rainfall runoff to be drained in a cost-effective manner away from areas where it could cause
damage or inconvenience. Least cost drainage systems that are relatively simple in their layout and easy
to maintain account for most of the investments under the project. Systems that involve pumps or
complex gated control structures were not adopted on the basis of concerns for their long term
sustainability, given their relatively intensive maintenance requirements. The drainage improvement
works have been designed so as to-be able to effectively evacuate the runoff from a ten year return period
storm event of 30 minute duration. Based on the Consultant's analyses, and on experience gained in



Belize City, improving the drainage system's capacity to cope with this event should provide an
acceptable level of protection for the towns, given the trade-off between levels of investment and the
value of the properties to be protected.
12. Costs: The total investment cost of the program has been minimised by the technical solutions
chosen. Lined drains are to be installed in built-up parts of the towns, where development of both the
road network and the household plots has already occurred thus limiting the working area available. The
less costly unlined drains or canals of trapezoidal cross section, with side slopes appropriate to the soil
conditions, have been generally adopted in the more undeveloped areas of the towns where there are few
limitations on working width and where relatively slower flow velocities are acceptable. The economic
costs were subsequently derived by excluding taxes and duties and by shadow pricing labor costs so as to
reflect the estimated opportunity cost, given the prevailing unemployment levels. Annual maintenance
costs were estimated to vary between 5-15% of capital costs, depending on the location, size, and type of
improvements to be carried out.
13. Benefits: The drainage program would provide an efficient system to remove water resulting from
heavy rain storms and thereby provide significant quantifiable and non-quantifiable benefits to the towns.
Some of the quantifiable benefits would include a reduction in flooding and hence damage from flooding,
the avoidance of interruptions and time losses during floods, and increases in property values as a result
of improved amenities and living conditions. Having a catchment area-wide drainage system would help
to deter also the random and unplanned land filling by individual property owners that tends to
exacerbate the localised floodings on neighboring properties and streets, and that is not cost effective.
14. Analysis of drainage improvement impacts in Belize have indicated that the construction of drains
have generally increased the desirability of properties and hence increased the demand for them. This
often translates into higher prices and rents for properties in well drained catchment areas. Based on
surveys and analyses carried out by the consultants in each town, the approximate catchment areas and
related properties were identified and valued based on prices prevailing in Belize. The estimated
increases in property values resulting from project improvements were based on observed values for well
drained areas, on the size and nature of the drainage improvements, and on discussions with Government
officials. Due partly to drainage problems the overall property prices are low, however, in Belize as well
as in other countries with low-lying flood prone lands, well drained areas tend to command a significant
premium (20-100%) over similar but poorly drained ones.
15. In the derivation of benefit streams, based on the consultants findings and for simplicity, it was
assumed that values would show a modest initial increase following project completion. This conservative
approach was followed because it is likely that it will take a few years for householders to appreciate that
their properties are no longer suffering from flooding on a regular basis and that their families are
enjoying safer living conditions and reduced health threats. It may also be a few years before property
owners realize that it may no longer be necessary to invest in raising the level of their individual plots to
avoid flooding. Implementation of the project will also provide other quantifiable benefits to the towns,
including reduced street maintenance costs, and reduced control costs for rodents, mosquitoes and other
vectors, that together represent about 10% of the benefit stream.
16. The non-quantifiable benefits will be important too and will accrue also to adjacent catchments.
These range from an overall increase in infrastructure service reliability, to health, sanitation, and other
benefits. The reduced flood events should help foster also a more intensive or convenient use of existing
facilities within the towns. Health benefits will arise from the reduced potential for contact with
contaminated waters thereby slowing the spread of gastrointestinal diseases. Also, the improved
appearance of the streets, canals and drains might help to increase the attractiveness of purchasing
properties and thereby expand  the thin property markets, which in turn  could facilitate greater
movements in property prices.
17. In addition to the above mentioned health and environmental benefits, the project will generate other



non-quantifiable benefits such as reduced foul odors, reduced unsightly debris, improved sanitary
conditions and enhanced landscapes. The installation of drain covers could serve as footpaths for the
residents of the towns, as well as providing the added environmental benefit of reducing the visibility of
drains and their contents. In the absence of detailed traffic counts, the value of time savings for car and
bus passengers who would otherwise not be able to pass flooded roads and streets in the town without the
drainage works, particularly the road side drains, has not been included.
18. ERR and Sensitivity Analysis: The drainage program was found to be justified economically with
an overall ERR of 32.9%. On average, only about an 18% increase in property values is required to
justify the proposed investments at a 12% discount rate. The sensitivity analysis further demonstrated
the robustness of the project as the rate of return is still acceptable even with 20% increases in costs or
decreases in benefits. Table 4.2 summarizes the results of the analysis and includes main features of the
investments in each town. Further details on the analysis are contained in the tables in the project files.
Risks:
19. The project is not subject to unusual risks with respect to its implementation and the use of
consultants and contractors with adequate experience will help to minimize the risks. The Government of
Belize has a good track record for the provision of counterpart funds and prompt payment of consultants
and contractors for work completed. Road maintenance budgets are adequate and the assistance to be
provided under the project in the planning and privatization of road maintenance, will help to protect the
road investments and also foster a more efficient use of resources. As for drainage, there are many local
contractors who are capable of carrying out the required civil works and the MOWT and the towns will be
responsible for the subsequent maintenance. In this sense the TA to be provided under the project will
help to alleviate some of the risks.
Distributional Impacts:
20. The principal beneficiaries of the drainage improvements will be the urban poor as they tend to live in
the less well drained sites in the towns. They will benefit also from the employment opportunities that
will be generated for skilled and unskilled labor during project implementation. The beneficiaries of the
road improvements will include the predominantly poor rural communities living in scattered villages
along the road. Most studies indicate that the income levels of these communities are typically below
national averages. Due to the road rehabilitation, the country as a whole will benefit from the reduced
vehicle operating costs and consumption of imported fuel and spare parts. Lower transport costs and
easier access by tourists should provide an impetus for increased economic activities in the towns and in
the road project area . The reduced transportation costs will also help to make Belize's exports more
competitive, and will benefit both the urban and rural areas.



Annex 4
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Table A: Roads Summary Analysis
Section I            Section 2         Entire Road
Length (km)                       7.20                 12.00                19.20
Economic Costs/Km (B$)            0.94                  0.77                0.83
B/C ratio (
12% (w/o, w time)                 1.43       1.94      2.34       3.00      1.65      2.55
Surface type/condition:
Existing                         Gravel                Gravel              Gravel
Condition                         Poor                  Poor                Poor
(seasonal)           (seasonal)           (seasonal)
IRI                                8.0                  8.0                  8.0
Proposed                        Asphaltic            Asphaltic            Asphaltic
Condition                         Good                 Good                 Good
IRI                                2.0                  2.0                  2.0
Traffic Range:
Existing ADT (4-wheel vehicle)    625                   315               315- 625
Slow moving vehicles (%)          18%                   24%               18%- 24%
Generated Traffic                  37                   26                  26-37
Diverted Traffic                  181                   181                  181
Main Sources of Benefits:
NPV (B$) @ 12%
- based on VOC                    0.76                 6.70                 7.46
+ time savings                2.64                 10.00                12.64
+ time & accident savings    3.11                  10.79               13.90
Sensitivity Analysis:
NPV        ERR       NPV        ERR       NPV       ERR
(B$ m)      (%)      (B$ m)      (%)      (B$ m)    (%)
Base-case, VOC benefits only      0.76       13.3       6.70      19.5       7.46     17.0
with Travel Time Benefits         2.64       16.3      10.00      22.6      12.64     20.1
with Travel time and accident     3.11       16.9       10.79     23.3      13.90     20.8
benefits
Costs+20%                         -0.44      11.3       5.06      16.9      4.62      14.7
Benefits -20%                     -0.56      11.0       3.78      16.5      3.22      14.3
Traffic diversion ( 15%           3.70       14.6       7.57      20.4      9.09      18.0
Switching values (%)
On Costs                                                                    52.0
On Benefits                                                                 35.0



Annex 4
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Table B: Drainage Summary Analysis
Town/ Proposed Drainage Sub-projects                                  Town Totals
Affected:               Cost
Length (m)    Cost    Area (ha)   Popu-          Total      % of  EBR (%)
(B$000)                 lation    (B$000)    total
21      1,450        890       8%      82.0
Central Main Drain                           765          450
Liberty & George Street Drains             1,050          440                                   _
Corozal                                                                12     1,013       1,300      110      29.7
NE Magoon Drain                            1,245          225
N E Magoon Drain Extension                   771           50
S E Magoon Drain                            1048          655
S E Magoon Drain Extension                   170          160
Magoon outfall improvement                                200
Dangriga                                                              29      1,313       5,780      50%      22.9
John Creek Canal                             591          500
Pen Street Canal                             830         460
Havana Creek Canal                         1,091        1,820
Outfall Dredging (2)                                      320
Sluice Structures (3)                                     200
Melinda Road Canal                           903          480
St Vincent Street Drain                   2* 1000         640
Commerce Street Drain                      2*640        1,020
Lakeland Canal                               600          360
Orange Walk                                                            I        9381      1,100      10%      26.2
San Lorenzo Road Culvert                                   50
Dunn Street Improvements                     689        1,050
Punta Gorda                                                            11       938         460       4%      57.5
N E Magoon Drain                             347          460
San Ignacio                                                            13       750       1,400      12%      36.2
John Martinez Drain                          930          400
Salazar Street Drain                         253          400
George Price Ave Drain                       2401         4501
River Outfall                         ____150|
Miscellaneous Works        540
Grand Total             11,460    100%       32.9
ERR & Sensitivity Tests:
Including Residual Values            Excluding Residual Values
Scenario                NPV           ERR          BCR           ERR                BCR
Base Case                             5,256        33.1%         1.46         32.9%               1,40
+20% Capital Costs                    3,121        21.2%          1.23        20.4%               1.16
-20% Capital Costs                    7,392        51.4%         1.81         51.4%               1.75
+20% Benefits                         8,588        47.8%          1.75        47.8%               1.68
-20%Benefits                          1,924        18.9%         1.17         17.9%               1.12
14% Discount Rate                    4,386        33.1%          1.39         32.9%               1.34
l j . . l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 5
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending 2004
(US $ million)
By IBRD FY
00       01        02        03       04       Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs        0.30      4.10      4.40     4.11      1.30     14.21
Maintenance Costs        0.00      0.35     0.35      0.33      0.12      1.15
Technical Assist Costs     0.00     0.85      0.85      0.79      0.25     2.74
Goods               0.00      0.10     0.06      0.00      0.00      0.16
Front End Fee & Other              --0.13        --                         0.13
Total              0.30      5.53      5.66     5.23      1.67     18.39
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD               0.0      21.6        21.7     20.00    6.5      69.8
Government            1.6       8.5         9.0       8.40    2.7     30.2
Total              1.6      30.1        30.7     28.40    9.2    100.0



Annex 6
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A) Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and
the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement.
1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below, and the
estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the
use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works to be procured under this project and totaling about US$15.36 million equivalent include
rehabilitation of the Burrell Boom Road and Burrell Boom Bridge, drainage works in six towns for flood
control protection and a pilot project for the privatization of road maintenance activities in selected road
districts. Major contracts for these works will be procured following International Competitive Bidding
procedures (ICB), using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Following the Bank required
procedures, the bidding process has already begun and the prequalified contractors have been invited to
bid for the Burrell Boom road and Bridge works. Contracts for Drainage works estimated to cost less than
US$1.0 million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$5.5 million, may be procured
using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures, using standard bidding documents agreed in
advance with the Bank.
Procurement 6f Goods
Goods procured under this project would include vehicles, computer equipment, and office equipment
totaling US$160,000 equivalent. The contracts for the goods packages are expected to be procured
following National Competitive Bidding procedures. However, to the extent possible, contracts for the
goods packages grouped for over $100,000 equivalent will be procured following International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs), and
contracts with estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
US$100,000 may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard
bidding documents agreed in advance with the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into
larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount of US$60,000, may be procured using shopping (National /International) procedures based on a
model request for quotations satisfactory to the Bank.
Selection of Consultants
Consulting services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise: transport and
safety strategy, road maintenance, environmental protection, urban zoning development, drainage
management, design of drainage works, construction supervision, PEU support, and training. These
services are estimated to cost US$2,740,000 equivalent and would be procured using Bank Standard
Request for Proposals.



Firms
All contracts with firms would be procured using QCBS except for small and simple contracts estimated
to cost US$100,000 equivalent or less that would be procured using LCS, up to an aggregate amount of
US$300,000 equivalent.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of
qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$190,000 equivalent.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the procurement
capacity assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in Table B.
B) Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Execution Unit (PEU) in close coordination with
the Ministry of Finance which will administrate the project funds. In accordance with the conditions of
negotiations, the PEU has hired additional staff for the unit, to implement the proposed project. The PEU
will include a project coordinator, one engineer, an accountant, an assistant accountant. The Operational
Manual will include the procedures for the internal control of procurement actions, the technical
specifications in each case, as well as reference to the model contracts as per the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents.
An assessment of the PEU's capacity to implement procurement actions for the project was carried out
and approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor (on 03/23/00). It assessed the organizational structure
of the PEU, its capacity to carry out the Bank required procurement cycle management and the interaction
between the project's Procurement Officer and the Ministry's Central Unit for Administration and
Finance.
Most of the issues concerning PEU have been addressed and the proposed corrective measures are being
implemented. The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) the possibility of political interference in
contract award; and (ii) lack of adequate number of qualified procurement staff. The PEU is working to
mitigate the identified risks through: (a) promoting a training program for the less experienced staff, and
(b) keeping control of the procurement actions using a PC based CPM monitoring system.
Monitoring of procurement actions and evaluation of contracts awarded under this project is a key activity
in the action plan, with a specific allocation of human and financial resources. Document filing is to
improve after the new system is implemented and is expected to comply the Bank's requirements. The
system will specify the procurement documents to be filed, the PEU staff who would have access to the
files, and the internal security measures for record keeping.
The overall project risk for procurement is average.
C) Procurement Plan
At appraisal, the Borrower developed a procurement plan for project implementation which provided the
basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods. This plan was approved by the RPA and is
attached to the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). At the beginning of each calendar year, the Borrower
shall update the Procurement Plan with a detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
D) Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by the Bank, the capacity assessment of the



PEU has recommended one full supervision mission to visit the field every six months during the project
implementation, to carry out post review of procurement actions. Based on the overall risk assessment,
the post-review field analysis should cover a sample of not less than I in 5 contracts signed.
E) Disbursement Arrangements
The Project has been designed within the capacity of the existing Project Execution Unit (PEU)
established within the Ministry of Works and Transport and should be executed over a four year period.
Until the PEU is capable of producing quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) in an efficient
manner, disbursements will be made according to the traditional disbursement method. It is expected that
PMR based disbursements will commence within 60 days of loan effectiveness.
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
The disbursements of the proceeds of the loan would be made against expenditure categories as shown in
Table C.
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain and operate a Special
Account, denominated in US Dollars, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. The authorized
allocation will amount to US$ 500,000, increasing to US$ 1,000,000 once total disbursements reach
3,000,000, while the project is operating under traditional disbursement procedures. It will increase to
US$ 2,600,000. once PMR-based disbursements commences.
Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs)
The following procedures will apply until the project begins to disburse via PMRs: All replenishment
applications for the Special Account will be fully documented and supported by a reconciliation statement
and bank statement(s) except for contracts of (i) civil works for less than US$ I million equivalent; (ii)
goods for less than US$ 100,000 equivalent; (iii) consultant services of firms costing less than US$
100,000 equivalent; (iv) consulting services of individuals costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent; and
(v) training. These contracts fall below the prior review thresholds and disbursements related to them may
be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
Support documentation for disbursements made via SOEs or PMRs will be made available by the PEU to
Bank supervision missions and the external auditors and will be retained for at least one year after receipt
by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement is made.



Annex 6
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million)
8.48                                          8.48
BB Bypass & Bridge               (5.50)                                        (5.50)
Road Maintenance                             1.15                               1.15
(0.75)                             (0.75)
Drainage System                  1.50       4.23                                5.73
(0.97)     (2.75)                             (3.72)
2. Goods & Material                         0.10        0.06a/                  0.16
(0.10)     (0.06)                  (0.16)
3. Consultant Services                                  2.74b/                  2.74
(2.74)                  (2.74)
4. Front-end Fee                                        0.13                    0.13
(0.13)                  (0.13)
Total                          9.98       5 48       2.93                   18.39
____________.__________ ._____   (6.47)     (3.60)     (2.93)   __    _        (13.0)
Note:  N.B.F. Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel
cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved
procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement
arrangement for the items listed under "Othere and details of the items listed as
"N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the text.
a/    Shopping (National and International)
b = Consultant service contracts awarded to firms using Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS) up to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million.
Consultant service contract awarded to firms using Least-Cost Selection (LCS)
up to an aggregate amount of US$ 300,000. Individual consultants in accordance
with paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines up to an aggregate of
US$190,000.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.



Annex 6
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million)
________. ___  QCBS    QBS    SFB           LCS       CQ      Other    N.B.F.
A. Firms   2.0                        0.30              0.25a/             2.55
(2.0)                      (0.30)            (0.25)             (2.55)
B. Individuals                                                 0.19               0.19
O)            _   _                _(0.19)                      (0.19)
Total   2.0                         0.30              0.44               2.74
(2.0)   .__   (0.30)  _                      (0.44)             (2.74)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
a/ !  Sole source selection for design of drainage works.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Annex 6
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
US $ thousands                                US $ millions
1.Works
>1,000                  ICB                   All/9.98
<1,000                  NCB                   All/5.38
2. Goods
>100                   ICB                    All
25-100              NCB                   All/ 0.10
<25              shopping                 First 2 contracts
3. Services
Firms                      >100                 QCBS                    All/2.0
>50                  LCS                   All/0.30
>100             Sole Source                 All/0.25/a
Individuals                 <50              As above              All TORs
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    18.01
a/ except the presentation of the technical evaluation report.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Recommended, one full mission
every 6 month(s) (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Annex 6
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
_ _         6                                r ~ ~~~~~~~~~ -  -
Upgrading t e N ainlRoad Network                      
(a) Burrell Boom Road                  l           5.00  1          65
(b) Burrell Boom Bridge'|                          0.50 _           65
Road Maintenance Pilot Project _                   0.75__           65
Drainage Improvements __3.72 _                                      65
Institutional Strength/ Capacity Building    __2.74                100
Goods                            1           0.16  1         100
Total Project Costs                    l          12.87
Front-end Fee |0.13|



Annex 7
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Project Processing Schedule
Time taken to prepare the project (months)          10                    12
First Bank mission (identification)              06/11/1998            06/11/1998
Appraisal mission departure                      01/10/2000            01/14/2000
Negotiations                                     03/29/2000            03/30/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    08/31/2000              / /19
Prepared by: Project Execution Unit- Ministry of Works
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Guillermo Ruan                            Team Leader
Emmanuel James                            Economic Analysis
Manzoor Rehman                            Technical Evaluation
Juan D. Quintero                          Environmental Analysis
Claude Archambault                        Peer Reviewer- (Transport aspects)
Oscar Alvarado                            Peer Reviewer- (Drainage aspects)
Daniel Boyce  ____Financial Management aspects__
Marta Molares-Halberg and Daria Goldstein   Legal aspects
IVladimir Jadrijevic                      Procurement assessment
Adan Cajina                              |_Procurement planning_l
Edward Daoud                              Accounting and Disbursement aspects
Stephanie Sheldon                         Project Assistant



Annex 8
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1992. Country Economic Memorandum.
1996. Belize Fiscal Policies for Stabilization and Growth: Public Expenditure Review.
C. Other
Booz-Allen & Hamilton, Inc., 1999. Belize: Pilot Projects for Contracting-Out Routine and
Periodic Maintenance, Draft Report.
Halcrow Fox, 1999. Belize Urban Infrastructure Project: Revisited Study, Economic
Evaluation, Preliminary Draft Report.
Halcrow Group Ltd., November 1999. Belize Urban Infrastructure Project: Economic
Evaluation, Draft Report.
Halcrow Group Ltd., 1999. Belize Urban Infrastructure Project: Environmental Impact
Assessment, Preliminary Draft Report.
Halerow Group Ltd., November 1999. Urban Infrastructure Project - Drainage Works:
Design Report.
Halcrow Transportation Infrastructure, November 1999. Urban Infrastructure Project -
Environmental Impact Assessment, Final Report.
Documents written by Beca International Consultants Ltd. on the proposed project 1998-
1999
Beca Intemational Consultants Ltd., August 1998. Boom Road Upgrading Design Report.
Beca International Consultants Ltd., 1998. Burrell Boom Road Upgrading: Environmental
Impact Assessment and Economic Analysis - Volume 1: Draft Report.
Beca International Consultants Ltd., 1998. Burrell Boom Road Upgrading: Environmental
Impact Assessment and- Economic Analysis - Volume 2: Drawings.
Beca International Consultants Ltd., February 1999. Burrell Boom Road - Upgrading
Project, Contract Documents, Volume 1: For Tender.
Beca International Consultants Ltd., February 1999. Burrell Boom Road - Upgrading
Project, Contract Documents, Volume 2: Drawings.
Beca International Consultants Ltd., February 1999. Burrell Boom Road - Upgrading



Project, Contract Documents, Volume 3: For Tender.
Beca International Consultants Ltd., May 1999. Burrell Boom Road Upgrading Project,
Belize - Supplementary Information Report.
Beca International Consultants Ltd., August 1999. Boom Road Upgrading Project -- Design
Alterations Report.
Beca International Consultants Ltd., August 1998. Report: Burrell Boom Upgrading Survey
and Design: Detailed Design Burrell Boom Bridge.
*Including electronic files



Annex 9
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions        and actual
disbursements9
Project ID             Borrower        Purpose               IBRD        IDA    Cancel.    Undisb,      Orig  Frm Rev'd
FY
Number of Closed Projects: 7
P039292           1997 GovtofBelize    Social Invest. Fund    7.00                            5.12
Total:     7.00       0.00      000        5.12      0.00       0.00
Active       Closed
Projects     Projects        Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       1.88         58.78         60.66
of which has been repaid:      0.00         16.48         16.48
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:       7.00         43.95         50.95
Amount sold:        0.00          0.00          0.00
of which repaid:      0.00          0.00          0.00
Total Undisbursed:       5.12          1.66          6.78
Source: Bank records
a Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.



Annex 9 (contd)
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval    Company              Loan    Equity    Quasi       Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic
1993           BECOL                 6.00      0.00     0.00       0.00     6.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:          6.00       0.00     0.00       0.00    6.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval             Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00



Annex 10
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Belize at a glance                                                           Jun-O0
Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-    r 
Belize   & Carib.  income       Development diamond'
1998
Poaulation, mid-vear (millions)                       0.24        502       886                  Life expectancy
GNP oer caoita (Atlas method. US$1                   2.610      3.860     1.740
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                      061       1.933     1.541                        T
Averaae annual arowth. 1993-99
PoDulation /%)                                          2.7       1.6       1.1                    /    \
Labor force/%J                                          3.8       2.3       1.5      GNP                              Gross
Most recent estimate flatest vear available. 1993-991                                capita             ..        enrollment
Povertv (% of vaDulation below national oovertv line)    ..        ..        m...e,
Urban oooulation (% of total oooulation)                47         75        58
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                        75         70        68
Infant mortalitv (oer 1.000 live births)                32         31        35
Child malnutriton (% of children under 5)                6          8        14                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of ooDulation)                  83         75        71
Illiteracv (% ofJooDulationaae 15+)                      ..           2      14
Gross orimarv enrollment (% ofschoolase Dooulation)    121        113       102        -Belne
Male                                                 123          ..      105        --   Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               119                   99
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      199S      1999            -
FEconomic natioe
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.15      0.36      0.68      0.73
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                   .      30.3      23.0      24.2
ExDorts of ooods and services/GDP               .     59.7       49.9      48.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savincs/GDP                             20.9      15.9      14.5
Gross national savinos/GDP                             25.1      16.9      16.2
Current account balance/GDP                     ..    -5.0       -6.2      -8.0      Domestc   _
Interest oavments/GDP                         0.4       1.7       2.2       2.3     Saig                          Investment
Total debt/GDP                               47.2      39.9      50.0      49.4      Savings
Total debt service/exDorts                     ..       8.5      12.3      10.7
Present value of debt/GDP                       ..
Present value of debt/exDorts
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      19SS      1999   199903
(averace annual orowthl
GDP                                  3.9      4.1       4,5        .5       5.2         -     Belize
GNP oer caita                       1.0      1.1       1.1       2.0       2.9               Lower-middle-income group
ExDortsofooodsandservices            6.8      2.1      -0.9       6.9       4.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                   1979     1989       1998      1999     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
Aariculture                                  30.8      20.4      17.8       17.7
Industrv                                     21.9      26.5      24.0      23.9    20
Manufacturino                               15.1     16.4       14.2      14.2
Services                                     47.3      53.1      56.2      58.3    -20                       97          99
Private consumDtion                            ..    63.9        64.2      68.0    .40
General aovernment consumotion                  ..    15.2       19.9      17.5               _GD1                GDP
Imworts of ooods and services                   .      69.1      57.2      58.5
(averace annual orowthl                   1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports(%)
Aariculture                                   2.2       6.1      -15          5     20
Industrv                                      3.9       3.1      -1.15
Manufacturina                                3.2      3.4       -2.9       4.5    10
Services                                      4.1       2.8       4.0       5.1      5
Private consumDtion                           0.0       4.1       9.5       8.0                              57 9        99
General aovemmentconsumotion                  0.9       8.1       4.6      -0.7   .10
Grossdomesticinvestment                       6.6       0.2       1.6      12.0    -
ImDorts of aoods and services                 2.2       1.7       4.8      11.5             -Exports          'Imports
Gross national Droduct                        3.7       3.9       3.8       4.6
Note 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-orouo averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
hP innrmnlpt.



Belize
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer pnrces                                                 4-0.       3.6    in
Implicit GDP deflator                         3.6      2.0       -0.3      3.5
Government finance ;
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                              9  95        9 7    98   99
Current revenue                                                  27.1      25.9    I-s
Current budget balance                                            5.9       5.1    |GDP defltor    0CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -6.1      -2.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989      1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                     94       194       208     409
Commodity 1                                                      45       41      355
Commodity 2                                                      25       27      300                             *     l
Manufactures                                                     22       22      250
7  200
Total imports (cit                                               327  367 2                 r0,!
Food                                                             58        57    100
Fuel and energy                                                  16       29      ,o
Capital goods                                                    84       83       o,
93   94   95   ga 97 Oa g
EXDort orice index (1995=100)                           ..        92        91
ImDort orice index (1995=100)                   ..               101       101                  U Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                          91       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP - -
(USS millions)                                                                      C%)
Exports of goods and services                          193       338       357       0
Imports of goods and services                          227       386       427       1
Resource balance                                       -35        -48      -71      -2
Net income                                             -11       -29       -31      -4                                 l
Net current transfers                                   28        36        43          s       
Current account balance                                -18        -42      -58      -7
Financing items (net)                                   30        28        86    1
Changes in net reserves                         4      -11         13      -28    l-1
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)         ..       ..         ..       66
Conversion rate (DEC. locabWUSS)              2.0      2.0        2.0       2.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999                                     -
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           72      145       338       361
IBRD                                          0       14        41        44
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                 G:56        A
Total debt service                              1       18         46       42
IBRD                                          0        1         5         7               A
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                   D: 86
Official grants                              15        4          .F:76
Official creditors                           10       14         5         3
Private creditors                             1       -1         7         3
Foreign direct investment                     0       19
Portfolio equity                              0        0                                            E: 99
World Bank program
Commitments                                   0        0          0        0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0        5         4         6      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        1         3         4      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0        5         1         2
Interest payments                             0        1         2         3
Net transfers                                 0        4         -1       -2
Development Economics                                                                                                 Jun-00



Annex 11
Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Environmental Assessment -Summary of the Urban Drainage Component
Background
When completed, the Municipal drainage component of the proposed project would have executed the urban
drainage improvement works needed to evacuate surface runoff from 30 minute rainfall with a 10 year return period,
within the limits of each of the following towns: Punta Gorda, Dangriga, and Corozal on the Caribbean coast, and
the inland towns of Benque Viejo del Carmen, San Ignacio-Santa Elena and Orange Walk. These works, originally
proposed in the Belize Urban Infrastructure Project (BUIP), consists of a series of investments in the six major
towns of Belize intended to improve the urban environment in regards to water supply, road development or
improvement, coastal planning, urban waste management and storm drainage improvement and other urban
environmental issues. The feasibility report for the BUIP was prepared by Consultiberica-Halcrow in 1996, under
contract with the Government of Belize.
Halcrow carried out the engineering designs for these improvements, the environmental impact assessment of the
proposed works (EIA) and the economic assessment of the proposals in 1999. In addition, an independent
international consultant was contracted to (i) review of the technical, economic and environmental studies related to
the proposed drainage works; (ii) assess the adequacy of the proposed environmental management plans vis a vis the
potential environmental and social impacts stemming from the proposed works; and (iii) assess compliance of
proposed measures with World Bank safeguard policies specially regarding natural habitats and cultural heritage.
This report summarises the findings of all technical and environmental reports as well as the recommendations
proposed by the independent consultant. The EA report has been submitted to the Department of Environment
(DoE) for official review and clearance as required by Belize's environmental laws and is available in the offices of
the DoE and MOWT for review by interested parties. Formal World Bank review of the report was carried out
before the appraisal by the Bank and they conform fully to Bank policy guidelines and requirements regarding
environmental and social issues. The EA report is also available in the Public Information Centre of the World Bank
in Washington.
Environmental and Social Setting
The proposed drainage works are those that the towns authorities could not be expected to undertake from their own
resources, both in terms of the nature and extent of the works and the capital costs involved and conform to the
recommendations of a Belize Social Investment Fund (BSIF) report, formulated in April, 1999, after a revision of
the drainage situation in the six towns.
All towns present severe inadequacies in the existing drainage systems. In general, the problems relate to specific
areas of the town. Only in Dangriga, are the problems widespread and extend throughout the majority of the
developed area of the town. In Corozal, Benque Viejo del Cannen, Dangriga and Punta Gorda the existing primary
drainage channels are either non existent or of inadequate capacity to convey the required drainage flows. In San
Ignacio/Santa Elena and Orange Walk the drainage problems are of a more specific nature and occur due to local
deficiencies in the drainage systems.
Several of the drainage problems in the towns occur due to inadequate planning in the new development areas.
Household plots and roads have been developed without regard to the existing natural drainage routes. In particular,
roads have been constructed without the provision of culverts to enable drainage water to be evacuated. Many of the
newer development areas are also on low-lying land to which runoff naturally flows. Householders have often
developed plots in these areas without any previous land fill operations to raise the plot levels above the normal
drainage levels.
The six towns have together an estimated population of ca. 55,000 inhabitants in 1999, roughly 22% of the country's
total, versus ca. 45.000 in 1994. This population is expected to grow to ca. 110.000 in year 2025 (see tab. 1.).
Immigration from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala and to a lesser extent from Mexico accounts for roughly
15% of this growth, although the immigration rates have been decreasing slightly during the last decade. About 42%
of the population are under 15 years of age, a proportion that most likely will continue to grow well into the first



years of the this century.
Because of this rather rapid population growth, the urban areas are expanding at a fast pace; it is precisely on those
new urban areas of rather recent expansion where the great majority of the drainage works of the project are to be
carried out. This situation underlines one of the major problems of the towns, i.e., unplanned or poorly planned
urban occupation of marginal lands without the proper development of urban infrastructure, particularly in
Dangriga. This is evident from: (i) dwelling densities are larger in the old sections of the towns than in the newer
peripheral areas, whether they are affluent or poorer quarters; (ii) the spontaneous occupation of land for urban
development often affects wetlands on a natural or successional status and invades or obstructs the natural drainage
systems; (iii) houses often lack appropriate systems for sewage and other domestic water disposal. Thereby there is a
high risk of drainage pollution from latrines and septic tanks located too close to the existing drains or evacuating
directly to them. To a lesser degree this is also true of garbage disposal; and (iv) most of the project works are
remedial actions needed to complement poorly engineered solutions, probably self-help type works.
The Proposed Works
The design of the drainage improvement works is based on two main criteria: simplicity in arrangement and easy
maintenance. Therefore, systems that involve pumping were avoided, as they are not sustainable in the in Belize
conditions. The different works are a combination of two or more of the following types of works: existing drain
improvements (mostly culvert crossings and alignment and depth and slope corrections of channels), construction of
new lined and unlined channels, construction of gated structures and construction or improvement of outfall
protections. The works are designed as to effectively evacuate the peak storm runoff from a ten-year return period
storm event of 30-minute duration. A total of 27 drainage improvement projects are proposed at an estimated cost
of Bz$21.69 million. The most extensive works are in Corozal and Dangriga where respectively 6 and 9 drainage
projects have been proposed at an estimated cost of Bz$14.795 million.
in order to optimise the attainment of the project goals for the six towns, within the budgetary constrains, a
prioritization and phasing scheme for the development of the works was proposed based on a multi-objective
analysis that weights the following criteria: (i) engineering limitations; (ii) total budget for the project; (iii)
economic benefits of each town's works; (iv) social issues, mainly intensity of flooding; and (v) political
considerations, mainly provision of drainage solutions in every town. However, the final decision about the order of
construction and sub-project phasing will be done jointly between the World Bank and the Goveniment of Belize.
The works would take some 26 months to be constructed if all the proposed works were undertaken in a single
phase. Table I summarises the sub-projects, which constitute the urban drainage component for Belize.
Table 1. Summary of BUIP Urban Drainage Component
popula-               mai work tvye                     all sub-projects
Town           tion     drain    lined  unlined  gated  [routfall     k time
(in 1999)  improve-  cbannel  chan-   struc-  protec-   sites    plan    cost
ment       s     nels   tures    tion           (months)
Corozal                8.085     2         4              .        3        6      15       6,68
Orange Walk           15.000     2         2                                3      12       1,35
Bengue Viejo del Canm    6.200   4         2                                3      11       0,75
San Iganacio/SantaEle a 11.570   1         3       1                1       4      15       3,30
Dangriga               7.390     5         5       4       4       3        9      26       8,12
Punta Gorda            5.010     2                                                 I 1 _  1    2  15  1,49
total                 53.255     16       16       5       4       8       27      26    21,688
lCosts are in Bz$ in thousands
Environmental Impacts
Four types of works are likely to cause environmental impacts: Drains and canals, control structures, outfalls and
complementary works. Each drainage scheme was evaluated independently for each town. The large majority of
impacts occur during the construction phase for all sub-projects; only one of which is beneficial in nature
(employment generation and improvements to local economies). This however is considered not significant, because
of its temporary nature and low to medium magnitude even in those towns with the largest sub-projects (Dangriga
and Orange Walk). In general, all impacts during the construction phase are not significant or of low magnitude in
all towns. The larger impacts (magnitude medium to medium-high, which occur only in Dangriga) are related to



alterations of daily life in the urban space: the disturbances caused to dwellers and transient people and traffic
interruptions. They all are however, temporary and at least partly avoidable in all towns, by means of environmental
clauses, and good housekeeping practices during construction.
Perhaps the most sensitive environmental issues are associated with:
a. The risk of loss or damage to archaeological remains during excavation in all of the Corozal works sites,
b. The risk of loss of an endangered plant species in one of the works sites in Punta Gorda, and
c. Disturbances to wildlife habitats during the construction phase of one of the works sites at Dangriga.
The detailed ecological and archaeological surveys carried out at these sites concluded that although sensitive, these
impacts were not of great importance. No critical natural habitats would be seriously affected, sensitive species still
thrive elsewhere in Belize and in the region, and archaeological remains have practically disappeared in Corozal
with the construction of the town. However, the EA proposes a series of mitigatory and compensation measures to
deal with these issues.
As expected most of the beneficial impacts will accrue during the operational phase of the sub-projects and are
related to the goals of the urban drainage project: reduction of urban flooding, reduction of damages to properties
caused by floods and consequently, increments in the development potential and value of lands. These impacts
however are not considered of a high magnitude in any one of the towns, (with perhaps the exception of Dangriga);
the magnitudes are considered moderate in all the other towns.
There are a number of negative impacts expected to occur on the terrestrial and coastal and marine ecosystems
during the operational phase of the sub-projects, however these all are considered not significant or of low to
medium magnitude. Damage to coral reefs is expected neither from construction nor from the operation of any of
the proposed projects.
Mitigation Plan during Construction
Construction impacts will be managed through Enviromnental Clauses for the Construction Contract. This plan
focuses on the implementation of 'good housekeeping measures' to reduce or avoid adverse impacts. These
measures include access and rights of way, dust, noise and pollution control, protection of construction sites,
landscaping, protection of flora and fauna, selection and exploitation of quarries, traffic management, disposal of
wastes, health and safety of workers and pedestrians (including school children) and public relations. The
application of these 'good housekeeping measures' during the construction phase are insured by its inclusion in the
tender documents and in the construction contracts. The contractors will be responsible for complying with these
clauses, and the Supervising Engineer will be responsible for ensuring that the contractors are in compliance.
Environmental Management Plan
An environmental management plan (EMP) has been developed to ensure that the drainage sub-projects are
constructed in such a way as to mitigate the adverse impacts while taking account of some of the institutional
problems identified. The implementation of the EMP will be the responsibility of the Supervising Engineer.
The EMP identifies seven areas of concern related to the implementation of the project and puts forward
recommendations for a series of packages to be implemented during each of the construction phases. The total cost
included to execute the proposed environmental management activities for the Bank financed drainage works is Bz$
150.000.
Institutional weaknesses. The EMP foresees the provision of training to staff at the local MOWT offices and
Town Boards, in drainage design and maintenance, management and finance; and second the appointment of a
Supervising Engineer to implement the mitigation plan and the EMP. To finance this activity, the proposed
project includes Bz$ 100,000 under the technical assistance component.
Urban and land use planning. It is a major concern for all towns and particularly critical in Dangriga, however,
the government of Belize is already acting in the direction of formulating a wide reaching programme. The EMP
recommends small-scale assistance through technical advice to Town Boards and environmental education
programs be provided.
Construction nuisances. As stated earlier they are to be controlled through the adoption of environmental clauses
in the contract documents and supervision of construction.



Coastal stability in Dangriga. Due to the uncertainty of the impact, the EMP recommends monitoring of the
effects of dredging on beaches.
Deterioration of water quality in Dangriga. This is only considered to be a problem during the initial flushing of
the canals as they are linked up to Stann Creek.
Ecology and biodiversity. The areas of concern are a mangrove habitat to the South of Dangriga and a seasonal
swamp forest with endangered and rare species in Punta Gorda. The EMP recommends habitat protection in
Dangriga, associated to the Gra Gra lagoon and support of a local NGO concerned with the area. The areas of
interest in Punta Gorda are private and therefore, no protected status can be guaranteed, even though is much
needed independently of the drainage works. The EMP suggests the acquisition of a 100-m wide corridor to
ensure protection.
Cultural heritage. The surveys and documentation carried out for the EIA study uncover a high risk of loss of
archaeological remains in Corozal and to a lesser degree in Orange Walk, San Ignacio-Santa Elena and Benque
Viejo del Carmen. The EMP proposes further archaeological surveys and monitoring during construction in all
these towns.
Inter-Agency and Public/NGO Involvement
Halcrow's engineering and EIA study teams consulted with key government officials in each of the six towns,
namely the Town Boards, Public Health Inspector, Vector Control Unit, and the Water and Sewerage Authority.
Consultations were held with the Friends of Gra Gra in Dangriga, ESTAP and TIDE in Punta Gorda. A social survey
was undertaken in each town, to identify the magnitude and nature of the flooding problem for dwellers living or
working near the main drainage system, and recorded their concerns about construction. Finally, consultations were
held with school representatives where flooding was a problem. Further, local consultation is planned by placing a
copy of the EIA at each of the Town Boards, and by inviting residents to review and comment on the proposals.



MAP SECTION






IBRD 30793
890                                                                       880 
This map was produced by the                                                                    MEXICO 8                                        /
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                          heuml 
The boundaries, colors, denominations                      Chon
and anyother information shown on                     C/-
this map do not imply, on the port of              Patcl)con     *                                               I
The World Bank Group, any judgment                                   Corozol                                   /
an the legalstatus of any territory,or          LoursAi e, F }                                               /
any endorsement or acceptance ofanF                                     il
such boundaries                            San Victa(       ' C   ROZAL             o-U
Douglas           Jr;o g          f                             _                  C a r i b b e aresso
DISTRICT                  i                  ~Caribbean
M E X I C O                San Lorn   0                                             ,                                         S e a
Yo C          *   Orange Walkl                               7 9 
- , San   ;aWe;grmeRjto   '.4jfgAmb iris-                                                                          &
180                   ~~~~~~~         ~~August  11Pi.azaro/
Neustadrto  Rdg                          -                                        onPedro
-18ustodt                   San  ilipe           , GXMas     Cd                                                  BELIZE
--0 -;X A/</ iWoman Sontan                                                          BURRELL BOOM ROAD
iF                                    Pond      C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~owe  Creok
) (Wajter Bank                   0 ocksto ePosd                                      BY-dPASS
Di  CT                                                                                        BY-PASi    u   -
\i   /  l    (   Hill Ban t\(   d Buo11  S  II                                 t           BURRELL BOOM ROAD BY-PASS
Sierra DOnch       cliz:5; -,                                                         ')       DRAINAGE WORK PROJECTS
an Jose                     BELIZE                  *                    , iJ,'
Li-    (S                            ,                                                   /  nd it                  MAIN ROADS
. T !j  ffe                OTHER ROADS
Cr\ayg   Roarng             urchyard    wES|                       - v /   I nds                *     NATIONAL CAPITAL
ear eviie  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         ~~~~DISTRICT CAPITALS
f_f     |                                                                                                             0 LSoPoak$}    ~eim o   a   ;s   t   |   /  XV   ti  ;   o    TOWNS AND VILLAGES
-    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
San               Cas o                                                                              - '  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Benquevncot n    CAYO                 /           A                                                                                            17-
/      0       DISTRICT                     STANN                   (a  Cree
}  >              ~ ~~~~~~~Gugt4a Church Banko  X   -                gIIjI
Locust Bank0.-'t'                                               ,
'/     1 9         ~~~~~~Rini o Grande   entralbn                         f   
DIS            Riversdale
j      <~~~  J        La~~garto Banl      <        1              t      -t 
jS.ineBightVillage         t  1         Gulf  of
;   yTeaketti  \'            )- _           oentia    /             I'            AlMexico                             7     8
I           Cip   Medino                           Bgireek        ;                   I in
i     PalrnarCenk         Mvins Banks   Jndepesdence   /            /               .
* / ~~~Camp                               l p:  
!  ( TOLED&i 9 >D<lMoeICT                y Rier                    '                                       -        Caribbean
oCasemero Ima                                                        MEXICO ma         Jj                      e c
San Antonio                                                                                        MEXIOZEImojn                             e
-f   \     <   i-                      ~~~~~~~~~~SopodilljagA-                        UTEAA-. -              
Cays op             -                       \a(HONDURAS,;---(
@ / ~~~Rice Sthlion   \ l   
| XJ ,                                                                                  : EL SAL ADORk  NICARAGi A
W   S           E        -                                           ~~~~      ~      ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~161-.   t,<
-16  ; J          C        ~~~~~Gulf of -:                                                                 
Honduras                                                                 P A  C  I F I C
GUATEMALA                                                                                             0 C E A N                               A
8  - v                                      APRIL 2000






~~~                              5~~~~~5~~~~t~~~~              Yr~~~~~~<~~~~ ~BELIZE
Sports G,-d                                                                                    COROZAL
Police-    r                                                               K" 
Station      '              ''."' .
-~~~                   DRAINAGE WORKS
/ Doctor's                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~North East
Hoose                                     Ma~~~~~~~~~~~~.oaaDan       -'-
MH-pil.l~~~~~~~~~~~~ RANK-FINANCED WORKS
Santa Rita  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~          -      OPEN UNLINED DRAIN
RoadDrotancCtr
'~~~~~~~~~K                                                                                            - -  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPEN LINED DRAIN
Magoon Drain                                                 OTHER DRAINAGE WORKS:
Graced                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OPEN UNLINED DRAIN
- - -   OPEN UINED DRAIN
~~~~~~~~~a  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ---COVERED LINED DRAIN
I  I                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CULVERT CROSSINGS
'GE 1.  Magoon Drain  Nt.                                                                                                                     STREETS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~amarrseacSRET
-zir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lrra 'rpacs yrs a eiaUi ttr ol ak
'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EeIrcdne,clr,deriaie n aae naona hm
anAr epda a m   e IeRna TIre World too G-ap, an~y
rch                                                                                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~acp-sr lc roalolr
Road Drain ~~~~~~~~~~MEXICO-
Chettrmal  Bay                                                                       4,
-    Caribbean
M.,                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~I   1110    200    30  400  so          II-                                                          a
MEtRS
GUATRMAIA  r"HONDURAS
GUATEMALAS                 ~        Mr 






BELIZE
ORANGE WALK
DRAINAGE WORKS                                                                                                                            K
r c    _
Mu,f'les
College. . ,,                                                                                                           M E Xlc-o
on Lorenzo
Road
CulIvert
Crossing
MEXICO
BANK-FINANCED WORKS:                                                                                                                                                         - .
OPEN LINED DRAIN                                                                                                                                        SrCuuluho
CULVERT CROSSINGS
OTHER  DRAINAGE  WORKS:                             ,O  100    200    3      40     500.
- - -  OPEN UNED DRAIN                                                    Monks
_      CULVERT  CROSSINGS                             Thus  an  hls  p d -dce , by  the  Mo p  Deer    Unit o.    The   W'd      'BiAL                                                                     .
The.o,dois co-d- dennusfoodon.oyotk, isunoo hoe
> - STREETS                                    o tis nop do not ip4u oo the. pn f Th Wd B, ank rpor, 007
aceptnce of such                                                                                         GAMndHnOes.NDURAS
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAMI .,                                                                                                                     HODUA \  r'.w






BELIZE
SAN IGNACIO - SANTA ELENA                                                                                                                                                                                     ri
DRAINAGE WORKS                                                                                                                                                                                  Salazar Street
Savannah
RANK FINANCED WORKS.
~-        ~ OPEN UNLINED DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               T.
OPEN LINED DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PlIrile
_       CULVERT CROSSINGS
NEW RIVER OUTFALL
- THEEP DRAINAE WORKS.                                                          G    d                                                     R.o.
;^  vY  / \^A ~~~~~~~~~~C.h1                                                                                                                                                        Pi w-e
-   OPEN UNLED DRAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       moiI
---OPEN LINED DRAIN                                                                                S
ROT CUJLVERT 
CULVERT CEOSSINGS
Th.O p10  2d00d b3  M., 10    i n Uil aF Th. Word BeA
NEW RIVER OUTFALL                                                                                                                                                                                                               The  . bodarh, aolo-,dai,fi-ee aadr ..,A.,e ermaTofi-h-
-hi -p do. moatly, o- Be. p--  Th. W-Id Bank DGop, any
lod,- e   h ont 1 oglotaatn  to-ndlriy,onyodnr.r-*o
MSTREETS                                                                                                                                                           L                                                            |                      . -h                               | i
METE RU~                                                                                                |                                                                                                                  | GUATEMALA                           H O N D U R A S     |MX
DUAEMLA   ,,                HNDRA






00'              ts'               en'                                                                                                      To Son In-olio  Santo Elen=
MEXICO                      ,                                                                                                                                                                                             L
------r        C.rib6en                                                                                                0                                                           BENQUE VIEJO DEL CARMEN
.    Sra                                                                      g  fVg tW~~~~~~~~41                                                       DRAINAGE WORKS
1. labeInep    Conme                                                   Liberty Street Drains                                                     Central Main Drain
B AlE eALIZg                                                       g  5 e  N  D U R A  ] Wall Street Drain                      1,
GUATEMALA       xHONDURAS
Gearge Street Drain         ,%./ic    <' 
Thi6e  n prod-cd by the
Mop De.ngUnifTheWridBRnk
The hnDone,aln,en,a,n
th napdo cotapi, anthe pant nf
The6 W-Id B1n,Goup,any odenent
an  nba lagnett-  atny tntna
M. snt                                               BANK-FINANCEDWORKS:
"'A    Cdeg.    ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~                      -      OPEN UNLINED DRAINS
OPEN UINED DRAIN
ROX CULVERT
S       CULVERT CROSSINGS
OTHER DRAINAGE WORKS:
- - - OPEN UNED DRAIN
OPEN UNUINED DRAIN
CULVERT CROSSINGS
STREETS
>Ee .ee . _ _vMETERS      w      5
>i~.|   OtFTo
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T .- - 






MEXICO                                                                BELIZE
/-Lt   i                                            DANGRIGA                                                                 si. vc9reeE
-s  ------C i                      rece 1                       DRAINAGE  WORKS                                                        -                                                   Harans  Havana creek Canal
BELIZE ig~o                                                                                       rBsebl 
| /                                          X                                             Tnn 5lej Cons       |                 kAlwuXdes g X   4akela                                               , |rt
tr h-   S
*    PltOI HI                                   5" 60             _
w-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 U                                                      'K U                                        _                                                      9"
GUATEMALA                                                                                           G,.HODUdA  O A
Mela                                                                                                                   Sbal Street Canal
=  PENN RD~~~~~~~~~~~Bi                                                                                                                        OENLNE RAN
I.n                                |                  t                                           CULVERT CROSSINGS
t   |   t                                s     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW BRIDGES
0                          ~ ~~~~~~~~~ NEW RIVIER/SEA OUTFALt
OThER DRINAGCED WORKS:
I      =Z1    300                       R         Canal                                                                                                                               OPEN UNLINED DRAIN
METERS                                                                                                                                                           - - -   OPEN IUNED DRAINS
CULVERT CROSSINGS
This mop _os peorrdd by Ih Mcp Doge Jolt d Th. Wodd oE
The bou,dories ooIo~no1se mebrd emynollee lomoHom in                                                                                                                                  4        NEW RIVER/SEA OUTFALL
mon tsemop do noliply, on dpar  h orttldW Gdhoukep. o.y 
ji   .as    d-  pg&-d bys  1  Mo    D.rmi   Uy,oMo o r W e -e .
:a dush-  SRTREETS
o                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              i






Tomo.rdoby t6
, ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    . 11k                                                                                                                              BEL,_,ZE
MEXICO                                  M ,     o Jl. o                                            \                                                                                     BELIZE
--99wif t- ||s4 -aet  >|yO sspagsonof           t    X      x_PUNTA  GORDA
ITh. Wodd Koch G-op, cy wdmr.
^ _ _ g-rt.o4coynqec                                                           --w ~-DRAINAGE WORKS
It                                                                                                                                                                                              R ' .4. . Se<f - wsh  b.  \  \    SANK-FINANCED WORKS:
k'BELIZE  /OPEN UNED DRAIN
CULVERT CROSSINGS
-AiV '   '  " o Xi W                    -                                                      w          X                                  |                                                  OThER DRAINAGE WORKS:
- - - OPEN UNED DRAIN
GUATEMALA   >   -_         HONDpRAS                                                                                                                                                       -      OPEN UNLINED DRAIN
__________________________________________                                                                                                       CULVERT   CROSSINGS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUVET C OSSNG
STREETS
'      100     200     300     400      500
METERS
IY~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Stl. Pt
Firo-   5                              Fz;ghng droHZ i
Churc                                       Stetino               NDrIH EasI                                   FRONT H-
PZ=ffl                                                                                       H.~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *Sholaon  ri
>  C a r i   b 6 e a n  Se  a
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tw _uulqri



