E- 293
Halcrow Transportation
Infrastructure
Belize Urban Infrastructure Project
Environmental Impact Assessment
Final Report
November 1999
t: ~~~~~~-               -  .  A..... ., 
Ministry of Works,
Government of Belize
,nvaIcrow






Halcrow Transportation
Infrastructure
Belize Urban Infrastructure Project
Environmental Impact Assessment
Final Report
November 1999
Ministry of Works,
Government of Belize
Halcrow Group Limited
Burderop Park Swindon Wiltshire SN4 OQD
Tel +44 (0)1793 812479 Fax +44 (0)1793 812089
www.halcrow.com
Halcrow Transportation Infrastructure has prepared this report in accordance
with the instructions of their client Ministry of Works, Govemment of Belize for
their sole and specific use. Any other persons who use any information
contained herein do so at their own risk.
© Halcrow Group Ltd 1999



I                                             I
I



Belize Urban Infrastructure Project
Abstract:
This document is an Environmental Impact Assessment of proposals to constuct a
number of drainage sub-projects in six towns in Belize. The study towns are Corozal,
Orange Walk, San Ignacio and Santa Elena, Benque Viejo del Carmen, Dangriga and
Punta Gorda. The proposed drainage sub-projects have been prioriused on the basis of
need, cost and economic criteria, and grouped into three construction phases.
All the proposed sub-projects are concemed with improvements to the main drainage
svstem in the study towns, to evacuate runoff arising from the 30 minute rainfall with a
1:10 vear return period.
Construction of the proposed sub-projects will provide relief from flooding to
occupiers of houses and commercial properties in the vicinity of the proposed works
for small to moderate sized storm events. It is not within the scope of this project to
provide drainage for extreme events like hurricanes. There will also be economrc
benefits to the construction industry and local town economics during construction,
and potential for umproving the amenity value of land.
During the Phase I construction period, most of the adverse impacts which will arise
will be associated with construction nuisance to residents, pedestrians and road users
due to noise, dust, access, construction traffic etc. There will also be potentially high
adverse impacts on archaeological remains, particularly in Corozal, but also in Orange
\Valk, San Ignacio and Santa Elena, and Benque.
During Phases II and III, in addition to the construction nuisances identified above,
there will also be small, adverse impacts on critical habitats in Dangriga and Punta
Gorda.
This report puts forward recommendations for a mitigation plan to reduce the adverse
impacts identified in the EIA and an Environmental Management Plan to ensure
adequate management of the implementation of the schemes.



I
I



Contact:      Mr John Harding
Hummingbird Highway Mile 43/2
Belmopan
Belize
Tel: + 501 08 13021
Fax: + 501 08 13022



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                          



Ministry of Works, Government of Belize
Belize Urban Infrastructure Project
Environmental Impact Assessment
Final Report
Contents Amendment Record
This report has been issued and amended as follows:
Issue Revision Description         Date   Signed
1    0       Final EIA             2/11/99



I



Contents
Executive Summary
I     Introduction                                                 I
1.1   Background to the Project                               1
1.2   Oudine of the Proposed Scheme                          2
1.3   The Environrmental Impact Assessment Studv              3
2     Appreciation of the Study Area                                5
2.1   Location                                                5
2.2   Climate                                                 5
2.3   Hvdrology                                               6
2.4   Land Use                                                6
2.5   The Coastline and Marine Processes                      7
2.6   Marine Ecology                                          8
2.7   Human Settlement                                        9
2.8   Urban Drainage                                          9
2.9   Water Supply                                           10
2.10  Sanitation and Wastewater Disposal                     11
2.11  Solid Waste Disposal                                   13
2.12  Water-Related Diseases                                 13
3     Environmental Legislation Framework                          15
3.1   Political and Administrative Framework                 15
3.2   The Planning System and Related Legislation            16
3.3   Environmental Legislation                              19
3.4  Intemational Treaties and Conventions                   25
4     Programme of Projects                                        27
4.1   Development of the Programme of Schemes                27
4.2   Development of Alternatives                            28
4.3   Design Criteria                                        28
4.4   Generic Oudine of the Proposed Schemes                 30
4.5   Construction                                           32



I                                              I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                I



11.3  Potential Environrnental Impacts                  107
12   Mitigation Plan                                        113
13   Institutional Issues                                   118
13.1  Overview                                          118
13.2  Project Implementation                            118
13.3  Post-Implementation                               119
14   Environmental Management Plan                          122
14.1  Overview                                          122
14.2  Sectoral Issues                                   122
14.3  Environmental Management Plan                     129
15   Inter-Agency and PubliclNGO Consultation               141
15.1  Consultation with Government and Non-Govemment
Organisations                                     141
15.2  Social Surveys                                    142
15.3  Future Public Consultation                        143
16   Conclusions and Recommendations                         162
16.1  Conclusions                                       162
16.2  Recomrnendations                                  164
List of References                                           166
Figures
Plates
Appendix A - Terms of Reference
Appendix B - Ecology
Appendix C - Archaeology
Appendix D - Institutional Issues
Appendix E - Construction Issues
Appendix F - Environmental Contract Clauses



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                               I



12.1    Generic rmitigation plan
14.1    Examnple of a variation register
14.2    Costs of the work packages for the EMP (BzS, 1999)
15.1   Surnmary of consultations with government and non government
organisations
15.2   Social survey results for Corozal
15.3   Social survey results for Orange Walk
15.4   Social survey results for San Ignacio and Santa Elena
15.5   Social survev results for Benque
15.6   Social survev results for Dangriga
15.7   Social survey results for Punta Gorda
15.8   Frequency and severity of house flooding
15.9   Frequencv and severity of plot flooding
15.10  Frequency and severity of street flooding



I                              I
I



List of Plates
5.1    Specific problems
6.1    Corozal
7.1    Orange Walk
8.1    San Ignacio/Santa Elena
9.1    Benque \iejo del Carmen
10.1   Dangriga (Stann Creek)
11.1   Punta Gorda



I
I                                                   I



SDA           Special Development Area
SI            Statutorv Instrument
TIDE          Toledo Institute for Development and Environment
ToR           Terms of Reference
ILV           Ultra Low Volume
UNDP          United Nations Development Project
VCU           Vector Control Unit
WASA          Water and Sewerage Authonrty



I



Executive Summary
Introduction
In 1996, the Goverrment of Belize (GoB) instructed Consuitiberica-Halcrow to undertake a
study of infrastructure needs in six towns in Belize, namely Corozal, Orange Walk, the twin
towns of San Ignacio and Santa Elena, Benque, Dangriga and Punta Gorda. In August 1999, the
GoB instructed Halcrow to update and revise the urban drainage schemes identified under the
Belize Urban Infrastructure Project (BUIP) and undertake an environmental impact assessment
(EIA) and economic assessment of the proposals.
The scope of the engineering proposals was to recommend improvements to the main drainage
system within the town boundaries. The study does not extent to local flooding problems. The
types of drainage sub-projects proposed consist of renovation of existing mnain drains, excavation
of new drains or canals, and outfall structures.
This document is the Final EIA report It has been prepared in compliance with the Belize
Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations (1995) and World Bank guidelines. The EIA
report is structured into 16 Sections. The first 5 sections cover the Introduction, Appreciation of
the Study Area, the Environmental Legislation Framework, Programme of Projects, and
Approach to the EIA. Sections 6-11 describe the results of the EIA for each town. Sections 12 to
16 present the Mitigation Plan, Institutional Issues, the Environmental Management Plan, Inter-
Agency and Public/NGO Consultation, and the Conclusions and Recomnmendations. The Terms
of Reference and additional infornation on ecology, archaeology, institutional issues,
construction and environrmental contract clauses are provided in the appendices.
Appreciation of the Study Area
Belize is located in Central America, on the western coast of the Caribbean sea, with Mexico to
the north and Guatemala to the west and south. The topography of the country is characterised
by the Maya mountains occupying the southern central part of the country, the subdued relief of
the Rio Hondo and New River drainage basins in the northern half of the country, and coastal
plains.
The climate is sub-tropical, with high annual rainfall increasing southwards from 150cms to
450cms, and unevenly distributed through the year resulting in a pronounced wet season from
July to November. The country also lies in the track of tropical storms and hurricanes originating
in the Atlantic and Caribbean seas. Several hurricanes have hit Belize this century, causing
widespread flooding and damage.
Doc No 0O -0 Dw y 1999
A\EtlASoc



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I



Numerous perennial watercourses rise in the Maya mountains. The hydrographs of these rivers
are punctuated by steep peaks representing the passage of storms over the mountains. One of the
largest rivers is the Macal River, which flows past San Ignacio and Santa Elena. It joins the
Mopan River, which rises in Guatemala and flows past Benque, at Branch Mouth, and continues
northeastwards discharging to the sea near Belize City. In contrast, the New River, which drains
much of Northern Belize, flowing past Orange Walk and discharging to Chetumal Bay near
CorozaL is characterised by a gradual r'se in water level during the wet season reaching a peak in
November or December depending on the rainfall pattern
The natural vegetation in northern Belize is dominated by flat plains and palm savannahs,
lagoons, coastal swamps and some inland flat areas and hills supporting serni-deciduous,
broadleaf rainforest. The southern coastal plain is vegetated by marshes, savannahs, and some
rainforest, with evergreen forest and pine savannah associated with the Maya Mountains. Much
of the natural vegetation in lowland Belize has been altered by human activities, in particular
through agriculture, including widespread slash and burn under the traditional 'milpa' form of
agriculture, and land dcearance for urban development
The configuration of the Belize coastline varies from the semi-enclosed Chetumal Bay in the
north, to more open coastlines punctuated with estuaries, lagoons, spits and low lying headlands
to the south. Over 1000 islands or caves lie offshore within a barrier reef which runs the length
of the country. The tides are semi-diurnal, with a tidal range normally below 40 cms. Water levels
are more strongly influenced by onshore winds and inshore of the barrier reef may reach 4-6 m
high before breaking. Tidal currents near the shore are generally insignificant, except around river
mouths, but there is a persistent southerly current offshore which, together with the dominant
winds from the north east and east, account for the general net trend for sedirnent transport
from north to south.
The coastal zone supports five major ecological habitats, coral reefs, seagrass beds, estuaries and
wetlands, mangroves and littoral forest The coral reefs lie furthest offshore, and tend to be in
good condition. The seagrass beds lie inshore and in the shallower waters around the coral reefs.
They are also generally in good condition, but suffer from localised degradation due to
anthropogenic causes. The estuaies and wedands, mangroves and littoral forest are found along
the shoreline. These habitats are most at risk from human intervention, particularly through land
clearance for agriculture or land development, or pollution from wastewater.
Belize has been settled for over 2000 years, with evidence of Maya setdement dating to about
1000 BC. Many modern setdements probably developed from Maya or Colonial settlements. The
present day population of Belize is about 230,000 (1997), with slightly over half of the population
living in urban areas. The study towns are relatively smalL ranging from Punta Gorda with a
population of 5010 to Orange Walk with a population of 15,000. Al the study towns are
experiencing urban expansion as a consequence of natural increase, mfigration from mral areas,
and immigration from neighbouring countries.
Do No .O Rr    1 Daf, t999.
AA\EUAo 



i
I



Urban expansion is poorly controlled, despite legal procedures for land subdivision and building
codes. As a consequence urban drainage is often poorly catered for in land development, and
worsened by the actions of individuals to reduce flooding problems on their plots.
All the study towns enjoy a piped water supply, provided from surface or groundwater sources.
In Dangriga crude water is subject to flocculation, sedimentation and disinfection, while in the
remaining towns the water undergoes disinfection only by chlorination. It is also commron
practice to collect and drink rainwater. Water quality data for samples taken from the distribution
systems show periodic contamination from Total and Faecal Coliforms. The Water and Sewerage
Authority (WASA) attribute this to poor chlonination rather than cross contanination where
water pipes cross the drains.
None of the study towns has a wastewater collection and treatment system. Sanitation facilities
are usually provided by septic tanks with a soakway or cess pits. This form of disposal is thought
to contribute to groundwater pollution in the towns. It is commnon practice for storm runoff and
sullage (such as bathing and washing water) from houses to be piped direcdy to the drains, as is
wastewater from commercial premises. There is widespread belief dtat the drainage ditches are
contaminated from direct discharges and groundwater seepage although little data are available to
validate these points. Storrnwater flushing and rapid runoff would help to dilute and disperse
such contamination.
Domestic solid waste disposal services are currendy in the process of being privatised. Each town
has a designated waste disposal site, however, tipping at these sites is largely uncontrolled.
Furthermore, fly tipping, though illegal, is widespread, and results in a lot of solid waste
accumulating in the drains, particularly in Dangriga.
The environrmental conditions are favourable for disease vectors, notably the Anopheks mosquito
which carries malaria and the Aedes Wfiiwhich carries dengue fever. The number of cases of
malaria have fallen in the last few years to about 4000 pa following a peak of over 10,000 pa in
the mid 1999s. The number of dengue cases is very low. Nonetheless Vector Control Units
(VCU) operate in each District to reduce the incidence of these diseases by Ultra Low Volume
(IJLV) spraying and house-to-house inspections. There are also low numbers of cases of other
types of water-borne diseases such as cholera, dysentery and hepatitis.
Environmental Legislation Framework
The political systemn in Belize is based on a bi-cameral system with elected Area Representatives
sitting in the House of Representatives and members appointed by the Governor-General sitting
in the House of Senate. Following the latest govenment reshuffle in October 1999, responsibility
for public works projects lies with the Ministry of Works, Transport, Citrus and Banana
Industries. Environmental issues, including the implementation of EIA regulations and pollution
control, is the responsibility of the Department of Environment (DoE) in the, Ministry of
Natural Resources, the Environent and Industry, while issues concerning archaeological
DocNoO Re:O Ds a 1t999 i9
A.\EIA4oc



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I



heritage are the responsibility of the Department of Archaeology (DoA) in the Ministry of
Tourism and Youth.
Local governnment is based on a system of Town Boards. The Town Board comprises seven
councillors elected by the residents and a Mayor elected by the councillors. The Town Board also
employs permanent staff in administration and works departments. The Town Boards have
responsibilities for raising local taxes and providing services, induding the nmaintenance of drains
within the town.
There is no strategic national planning in Belize and only patchy control of land development
within the country. The subdivision of private and public land is controlled by the Land
Utilisation Authority through a perrnitting system. Special Development Areas have been
designated to guide preferred development in rural areas. Town planning schemes have been
introduced for only four towns, Belize City, San Pedro (Ambergris Caye), Corozal and Dangriga
under the Housing and Town Planning Act. In these four towns the Town Boards are
responsible for granting building permission in line with permitted development in zoned areas.
In other towns there seerns to be little control on land development
With the introduction of the Environmental Protection Act 1992 as amended, a number of
enabling legislation has been introduced in recent years. The EIA Regulations came into force in
1995, the Pollution Regulations governing discharges to the environment came into force in
1996, and the Mines and Minerals (General) Regulations came into force in 1994. There is also
legislation to protect archaeological sites and aniquities, wildlife, and forestry. Belize is a
signatory to a number of international environmental conventions. The most relevant of these, in
the context of this project, is the Convention on the International Trade in Endangered Species
of Wild Fauna and Flora (C1TES).
Programme of Projects
The drainage sub-projects identified in the 1996 BUIP were reviewed in the the light of
discussions with the Town Boards on local flooding problems and field visits. All the drainage
sub-projects have been designed to evacuate storm runoff generated by a 30 minute rainfall with
a 1:10 year return period. This design criterium was selected to provide a reasonable level of
security at an acceptable cost It would prevent flooding during small to moderate sized events,
but not for extreme events such as hurricanes.
Most of the proposals involve the improvement of existing main drains through enlargement and
replacement of undersized culverts. In some locations, new drains have been proposed. The
types of drains proposed consist of unlined drains vvith 1:2 side slopes and lined drains
constructed in blockwork or cast in concrete. The larger lined drains will be braced with struts,
and where space is limited, for example in streets, the lined drains will be covered, thereby also
providing walkways for pedestrians as an enhancement
In several towns it will be necessary to construct new outfalls to the rivers or dredge existing
outfalls to the sea In Dangriga, it wil also be necessary to replace several wooden bridges, and
Doc NoO  R.O Da= Mky 199"                 W
AAEIA.O 



I                                                                                                                                 I             I



build penstocks on canals discharging into North Stann Creek to prevent floodwaters from the
Creek backing up the canals.
The proposed sub-projects have been prioritised on the basis of need, cost and economic criteria,
and grouped into three construction phases. Phase I construction should start in late spring 2000.
At this stage it is not known when Phases II and III will commence. The proposed schemes are
well within the capability of national construction companies, and the MoW proposes to let
contracts to Belizean contractors, and appoint a Supervising Engineer to oversee the
construction of the works.
Construction activities will result in demand for local materials such as blockwork, sand,
aggregate, and timber. Sand and aggregate will be obtained from licensed sites. It will also be
necessary to import materials such as cement and reinforcement The excavation of drains will
also release large volumes of spoil. Some of this will be unsuitable for reuse for example due to
the presence of roots, solid waste, and potential wastewater contamination, and will have to be
disposed of to Municipal waste disposal sites. However, dean spoil will be available for
controlled reuse in land raising.
The delivery of materials and disposal of wastes will generate construction traffic to and from the
construction sites. Other construction traffic will include plant used on site for exacavation,
rolling etc, and light vehicles to transport workers to and from the site.
Once the drains have been renovated, responsibility for maintenance will lie with the Town
Boards.
Approach to EIA
The approach to the EIA has been based on the requirements of the Belizean EIA Regulations
1995 and World Bank guidelines. The potential environmental impacts were identified from a
scoping study looking at the environmental characteristics of the study towns and the nature of
the engineering works. The key environmental concerns were identified and studied in detail. The
evaluation of the impacts has been based on a qualitative assessment, using the criteria of
direction of impact (adverse/beneficial); mnagnitude (high, mediurm, low); direct/indirect; duration
(temporary or pernanent); avoidability-, and reversibility.
Corozal
Corozal is located in the north of Belize on the western shore of Cheturnal Bay. The area has
been settled since prehistoric times, but only a small area of the Maya settlement now known as
Santa Rita remains. The rest of the ancient city has been built over as modern day Corozal
expanded. In 1955 Corozal was largely destroyed by HurricaneJanet and has been rebuilt The
town now has a population of about 8,085.
The old part of Corozal is located on low lying land along the shoreline, and has expanded inland
to higher ground along Santa Rita Road and between College Road and San Andres Road. The
town is drained by two magoons. Both rise in a swampy depression between Skeleton Town and
White Cocal: one flows to the north east of town and the other to the south west. The rnagoons
are generally in good condition with sufficiently steep gradients to promote a good flow. Therc
DocNoO KeR-O DateMir 19
A\EIAAm



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I



are also a number of smaller drains. Corozal is fronted bv a rocky coastline where erosion and
morphological changes are associated with high magnitude events such as hurricanes.
The Phase I Works involve improvements to the two magoon drains and their tributaries and
dredging of their outfalls. Phase II involves the installation of new road drains along College
Road. Phase III involves new road drains along San Andres Road and Santa Rita Road, and
improvements to 3rd Street North Drain.
The drainage proposals will impact upon the archaeological record in Corozal, as excavations
below 0.3 m frequently unearth the remains of Maya structures and artefacts. The works will
cause disturbance to residents, particularly with regards the magoon drains which flow through
densely populated areas.
There is good access to Corozal via the Northern Highway. Construction traffic would also have
good access to the construciton sites for the road drains, but there is restricted access to the
magoon drains. Construction traffic would also have to travel through town to get to the NE
magoon and 3rd Street North Drain.
All the works will provide benefits to local residents and the local economy. No significant
impacts are expected on soil erosion, coastal configuration or beach stability, hydrology and
drainage, terrestrial and aquatic flora and fauna, and disease vectors and their habitats. The
proposals will not affect flooding in Skeleton Town where urbanisation is expanding into the
natural swamp.
Orange Walk
Orange Walk is located some 70 km north west of Belize City on the Northern Highway, the
main arterial link with Corozal District and Mexico. The town is situated on gently undulating
terrain on the west bank of the New River. The area has been settled since pre-historic times, and
Orange Walk itself is possibly the location of the Colonial settlement Holpatin. Today the
population of Orange Walk is about 15,000.
Orange Walk has expanded rapidly in recent years, particularly along the Northern Highway and
to the north west and west. Expansion is impeded to the south west due to an area of low lying
swamp and to the east due to the New River. There is little formal strategic drainage in Orange
Walk Dunn Street Drain flows into the swamp mentioned above and there are some road drains.
The Phase I Works involve improvements to the Dunn Street Drain and the replacement of an
undersized culvert on the San Lorenzo Road. During Phase II, a new short length of road drain
would be built on Tangerine Street and Craboo Street, discharing into the swamp on the New
River floodplain. In Phase III, consideration could be given to improving a local flooding
problem in Ziricote Street, although this ray be better addressed as a local scheme.
Overall the scale of works proposed in Orange Walk is small, and construction works are likely to
have low, temporary impacts on residents. Improvements to the Dunn Street Drain would not
affect the water quality and ecology of the inner swarnp. Surveys of the swamp show that this is
OC NoO erO O Da May 1999
A\EIAO                                  V



I



an internally draining depression with no natural outlet It essentially acts as a balancing pond,
retaining floodwaters following rainfall. The current desire of local inhabitants to infill the swamp
for housing would result in greater flooding risk as it is not economically feasible to evacuate
floodwaters. Further development around the swamp should be discouraged.
Tangerine Street Drain and Ziticote Street Drain are small scale schemes which will have little
impact on residents or the natural enfvironment during construction. The latter scheme has been
compromised by recent land raising on one of the plots affected, and the scheme may be
abandoned, or modified as a local improvement scheme.
There is some potential for unearthing archaeological antiquities, given the known prehistoric
and historic connections in the area, and the discovery of Maya ceramics to the west of the Inner
Swamp area.
The proposed sub-proeicts will provide benefits to residents from the relief of flooding. The
replacement of the San Lorenzo culvert may improve land conditions to the north west of town,
and, indirectly land values and land development potential in the area. The proposals are not
expected to have any significant effects on soil erosion, river morphology, the quality of surface
waters, terrestrial or aquatic flora and fauna, visual impact, disease vectors or their habitats.
San Ignacio/Santa Elena
The twin towns of San Ignacio and Santa Elena are located on the Western Highway, near the
border with Guatemala. The twin towns lie on either side of the Macal River, and are joined by
the Hawksworth bridge. There is evidence of settlement in the area since prehistoric times, with
the Cahal Pech Maya site located on the southern outskirts of San Ignacio. In recent years San
Ignacio has expanded southwards, up the hillslopes towards Cahal Pech, and westwards along
Bullet Tree Road. Santa Elena is expanding northwards between the Macal River and the
Westemr Highway. The current population of the two towns is about 11,570.
There is no strategic drainage system in the twin towns, although there are a number of main
drains and streets drains. In San Ignacio, flooding occurs in the new suburbs to the north of
Bullet Tree Road where storm runoff collects in the valley due to the lack of continuity in
drainage provision. Flooding also occurs along Savannah Street between the cemetery and citrus
groves at the northern end of San Ignacio and along Salazar Street in Santa Elena.
It is proposed to improve the John Martinez Drain and outlet during Phase I, followed by
improvements to Salazar Street Drain and George Price Drain and outfall in Phase II. The
Savannah Street Drain could be improved under Phase III, however the local MoW office is
already undertaking further improvement works which may resolve the flooding problem here.
The main potential adverse impacts in San Ignacio and Santa Elena are related to construction
nuisances for residents, pedestrians and road users. The John Martinez and Salazar Street sub-
projects are located in residential areas, the Savannah Street Drain lies close to a school, and the
Salazar Street Drain passes a football ground which is well attended. Construction traffic should
Doc NoO RerO rk Dugtb99e                    ..
AAEAO                                      Vll



I                                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



have good access to the construction sites, although the traffic would have to be routed around
San Ignacio to arrive at the proposed sites. There is potential to unearth Maya antiquities in the
renovation of John Martinez Drain and Savannah Street Drain where cerarnic fragrnents have
been found. Construction of new outfalls for the Salazar Street and Savannah Street Drains will
introduce new, hard features into the natural environment of the Macal River. The outfall for the
Salazar Street in particular will be a sizeable features, although view of it would be resmcted to
people swimming or canoeing on the river in the immediate vicinity.
The proposals to improve the John Martinez Road Drain would bring relief from flooding to a
number of houses and potentially improve opportunities for land development in an area where
there are a number of vacant lots and abandoned properties. The relief from flooding for
residents near the Salazar Street Drain will be less, and no residents will benefit from the
Savannah Street Drain improvements. The proposed sub-projects will not have significant
impacts on soil erosion, fluvial geomorphology, flora and fauna, disease vectors or their habitats.
Benque Viejo del Carmen
Benque Viejo del Carmen (Benque) is also located on the Western Highway and is the last
settlement in Belize before the border with Guatemala. Benque is situated on the east bank of the
Mopan River. The old part of town lies on a gently sloping terrace, but the town has extended up
some of the surrounding hillsides. The current population of Benque is about 6,200.
The town is drained by two streams, one flows along the northern side of town, while the central
streamn, or Central Main Drain rises to the south, passes under George Price Avenue (also part of
the Westem Highway) and diagonally through Benque, discharging into the Mopan River a little
upstream of the northern stream. The Maya site of Xunantunich lies on one of the hilltops on the
opposite bank of the river and there are smaller Maya sites in the vicinity of Benque.
It is proposed to renovate the Central Main Drain during Phase 1. This will be followed in Phase
II by the provision of new street drains along Iiberty Street and George Street and a new outfall
to the river. This will alleviate flooding on the lower lying land close to the river. In Phase III it is
proposed to extend the street drains along Wyatt Street with a new river outfall.
Improvemernts to the Central Main Drain will irnpact upon the residents living on either side.
The renovation of the culverted section through Mount Carmel School could present a hazard to
children and should be carried out during school holidays. Construction traffic would cause some
disruption to other traffic and it may be necessary to close streets ternporarily during the
replacement of culverts. The construction of the new drains proposed for Phases II and III will
again cause a nuisance to residents and travellers, particularly as these will be constructed along
narrow streets. However the impact on traffic would be minimal, as, given the grid layout of the
town, there are opportunities for rerouting traffic. The new outfalls to be constructed under
Phases II and III will introduce new, hard features onto the shore of the Mopan River. However
this impact would not be significant in the contewt of the urban setting.
The proposals will provide relief from flooding for occupiers of residential and comtnercial
properties along the drains, and benefits to the local econorny. The improvements to the Central
Doc No e RmO Due Ma 1999.
k1a4Vlll



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I                                           I



Main Drain wil remove a health hazard to school children, release land for recreational use, and
unite the two areas of the school grounds. The proposals to cover the lined drains to be built in
Phases II and III wil also provide sidewalks for pedestrians. There would be no sigrificant
impacts on the hydrology and water quality of the Mopan River, flora and fauna, disease vectors
and their habitats.
Dangriga
Dangriga is situated on the coast some 60 km south of Belize City. The town was first settled by
Garifuna immigrants in the early 19th century, and is not associated with any known pre-historic
sites. Today the town extends along the coast for about 2 krn, and 1 km inland. The population
of Dangriga is about 7,390.
Dangriga is located on low-lying deltaic sandy sediments deposited by the Nrnth Stann Creek.
While there is historic evidence of rapid accretion along this coastline from longshore drift, in
recent decades there has been significant erosion of the beaches due to several possible factors
such as erosion by extreme events, sand mining, dredging and the construction of a large pier.
Notwithstanding, longshore drift results in the accretion of sand across the mouths of creeks and
canals.
The flat terrain, high water levels and low tidal range impede storm drainage from the creeks and
canals which drain the town. Drainage is mainly provided by John Creek to the north, North
Stann Creek in the centre and Havannah Creek to the south. There are also a number of canals,
which are partially blocked, or not continuous. Some of the mnain streets have drains, but again
these are not continuous and do not have effective outfaDs.
The swamps around Dangriga provide a variety of wetland habitats. Mangroves, a globaly
threatened habitat, are found extensively to the south of Dangriga towards the Gra Gra Lagoon,
and to a lesser extent to the west of Dangriga in the Melinda Road area and alongJohn Creek.
The proposals to improve drainage in Dangriga is based on the principal of enlargement and
increased inter-connectedness of existng canals and creeks. This will provide greater storage
capacity for storm water and perrnit tide-induced flushing of the canals. Phase I Works wil
involve the renovation of the inner network of canals (ohn Creek Canal, Penn Street Canal,
Havanah Creek Canal, and dredging of the outfalls) and greater inter-connectivity beteeen John
Creek Canal North Stann Creek and Havanah Creek. Phase II wil involved improving Sabal
Steet Canal and excavating a new lower section of Lakeland Canal to the sea. Phase III wil
improve an outer ring of canals (Abogaldes Street Canal, the rest of Lakeland Canal and Melinda
Road Canal) and improve road drainage along St Vmcent Street and Commnerce Street.
The Phase I Works would result in construction nuisance to nearby residents, increased traffic on
the local road network, and the loss of mangroves along the lower 590 m ofjohn Creek. On
comnpletion of the scheme, John Creek Canal, Penn Street Canal and North Stann Creek would
be linked. There would be an initial flushing of potentially contaminated drainage waters into the
deaner North Stann Creek. However, in the longer temi, the flushing action induced by tides
Doc NoO P .O Dow May 1999
A\EdAoc



I
I



should help to reduce the occurence of stagnant water in the canal system. Drainage of the
outfalls could impact further on the erosion of the beaches, particularly if the sediment is
removed from the coastal environment and used in land raising.
The Phase II Works would cause disturbance to residents along SabeW Street Canal, where
housing is relatively dense and access to the canal is restricted. Construction of the Lakeland
Canal would require the clearance of about 1 ha of basin mangrove, which, although not
significant at the national scale, has implications for the conservation and management of the
remaining mangrove.
The Phase III Works would result in further clearance of up to 2 ha of basin mangrove and
encroachment into forest habitat containing Morelet's crocodile which is listed as 'threatened' by
IUCN, but which has a healthy population in Belize and is being increasingly seen as a pest. The
works will also impact upon residential areas, induding the main high school in Dangriga.
The construction of the proposed schemes would bring relief from flooding, and improve the
quality of drainage waters by allowing regular flushing of the drains through tidal action. The
scheme may encourage further development, particularly in sensitive environments such as the
mangroves which are already been encroached upon by the construcion of houses, for example
in the Rivas Estate. The enlargement of canals may marginally increase the habitat for disease
vectors, but given the extensive areas of swamp around Dangriga, this increase is not considered
to be significant The proposals are not expected to impact upon cultural heritage.
Punta Gorda
Punta Gorda is located on the coast some 150 km south of Dangriga. The town was settle by
Carib imrmigrants in Colonial times and grew rapidly in the mrid 19th century. Today the
population of Punta Gorda is about 5010.
Punta Gorda is situated on sloping land falling to a rocky shore fronted by coarse gravel beaches
and muddy foreshore. The town is drained by two magoons: the NE magoon flows through the
centre of town while the SW magoon flows around the west of the town, through swamp forest
to an outfall some 300 m south of the town. The swamp forest habitat is well represented in
protected areas in Belize. However, Black Howler Monkeys, listed as 'vulnerable', by the IUCN,
frequent the forest on the outskirts of town, and a rare plant listed in CITES, Zamiapirfa, was
identified in the forest during an ecological survey conducted for this project
It is proposed to renovate the NE magoon duing Phase I and the SW magoon during Phase II.
Overall the scale of works proposed for Punta Gorda is relatively small, so the construction
impacts on residents and road users are expected to be low. The existing road network can
accommodate construction haulage, although the impacts on the local road network would be
worse during the Phase II Works as construction traffic would have to cross town. Given the
grid network of streets, local traffic can be easily rerouted during temporary road dosures.
Doe No O R-O Dt Ml 1999                  x
&\EIAdm



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I



The Phase II Works would require the straightening and widening of the SW rnagoon to improve
capacity. This would lead to the clearance of about Iha of forest or about 70/o of the 14 ha of
forest in the vicinity. This could lead to the loss of specimens of Zamiapida and disturbance to,
and severance of woodland, for the Black Howler Monkeys. Works in the swamp forest could
lead to soil erosion and compaction, and would be best carried out in the dry season. There
would also be localised deterioration in water quality due to turbidity in the magoon and around
the outfall.
Construction of the scheme would provide economnic benefits to national construction firms and
the local economy. Completion of the schemes would result in a reduction in flooding for
numerous properties located along the magoons. No significant impacts are expected on the
cultural heritage, coastal environment, or disease vectors and their habitats.
Mitigation Plan
A plan for rnitigating the adverse impacts of the proposed sub-projects has been put forward.
This plan focuses on the implementation of 'good housekeeping measures' to reduce or avoid
adverse impacts. These measure will include access and rights of way, dust control, noise,
pollution control, protection of construction sites, landscaping, protection of flora and fauna,
selection of quarries, traffic management, disposal of wastes, health and safety of workers and
pedestrians (induding school children) and public relations. The design engineer will be
responsible for preparing 'environmental' clauses in the contract documents. The contractors will
be responsible for complying with these clauses, and the Supervising Engineer will be responsible
for ensurirg that the contractors are in compliance.
Institutional Issues
Implementation of the drainage proposals lies with the Ministry of Works. Local offices of the
MoW construction local schemes. However, it is understood that in this case, the MoW intends
to contract the works to national construction companies, and appoint a Supervising Engineer to
oversee the works.
T-he Department of Environment (DoE) is responsible for implementing the EIA Regulations.
This includes approving the Terms of Reference of the EIA, reviewing and approving EIA
reports, and ensuring that the mitigation measures are implemented. It is understook that the
DoE likes to involve its staff in observing the implementation of environmental mitigation and
management plans, but they lack the resources to do so for all projects.
The Department of Archaeology (DoA) is concemed with the potential impacts of schemes on
archaeological sites and antiquities, and the Commissioner of Archaeology has certain powers to
halt construction or direct developers to undertake certain actions to protect ancient monuments
or antiquities. The DoA relies to a large extent on developers reporting archaeological finds to
them, and lack the staff to undertake routine monitoring for construction programmes.
Once the drains have been constructed, the Town Boards are responsible for mnaintenance. Field
observations show that drains are frequently not maintained adequately. While it appears that the
Doc No 0 F- 0 Dc Nr 199 
A:\AIAo,                                  Xi



I                                   I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I



Town Boards employ sufficient labourers for this task, the lack of maintenance may be due to
problems such as lack of training or understanding among the supervisory staff on the
requirements of mnaintenance. The Town Boards are currendy facing problems in raising revenue
from local taxes and accumulating capital. In the longer terms this will affect their ability to pay
for and undertake their duties, including maintenance of drains.
Many of the drainage problems identified in this study have become necessary either because of
inappropriate road layouts when development first occurred, or because individual plot holders
have subsequently damaged the drainage systemr While the proposals put forward under this
study will resolve some of these problems, drainage will continue to be a problem due to
weaknesses in the land use planning and control procedures.
Environmental Management Plan
An environmental management plan (EMP) has been developed to ensure that the drainage sub-
proejcts are constructed in such a way as to mitigate the adverse impacts while taking account of
some of the institutional problems identified above. The implementation of the EMP will be the
responsibility of the Supervising Engineer.
The EMP identifies seven areas of concern related to the implementation of this scheme:
institutional weaknesses, urban and land use planning, construction nuisances, the impacts of
dredging on coastal stability in Dangriga, water quality in Dangriga, ecology and biodiversity, and
cultural heritage. Construction nuisances will be controlled through the adoption of
environmental clauses in the contract documents: an example is provided in the appendices. The
problem of deteriorating water quality in Dangriga is only considered to be a problem during the
initial flushing of the canals as they are linked up to Stann Creek and has not been considered
further at this stage.
The EMP puts forward recommendations for a series of packages to be implemented during
each of the construction phases. These will provide training to staff at the local MoW offices and
Town Boards, further archaeological surveys and monitoring during construction, monitoring the
effects of dredging on beaches in Dangriga, habitat protection in Dangriga and Punta Gorda, and
environmental education in Dangriga. The total cost of the proposed packages is 414,OOOBz$
over the three construction phases, with 160,000 Bz$ for Phase I.
Inter-Agency and Public/NGO Involvement
The engineering and EIA study team have consulted with key government offices in each of the
six towns, namely the Town Boards, Public Health Inspector, Vector Control Unit, and the
Water and Sewerage Authority. Consultations were held with the Friends of Gra Gra in
Dangriga, ESTAP and TIDE in Punta Gorda. A social survey was undertaken in each town, to
identify the magnitude and nature of the flooding problem for occupiers living or working near
the mnain drainage system, and record their concems about construction. Finally, consultations
were held with school representatives where flooding was a proble.L
Do NoO R IO D.WY 999 *-
AAEM4oc                                 Xll



I
I



Further local consultation will be undertaken once the EIA has been prepared. This will involve
placing a copy of the EIA on deposit at each of the Town Boards, and inviting residents to
review and comment on the proposals.
Conclusions and Recommendations
The Belize Urban Instrastructure Project has identified and prioritised a series of drainage sub-
projects to be undertaken in three construction phases in Corozal, Orange Walk, San
Ignacio/Santa Elena, Benque, Dangriga and Punta Gorda. Many of the sub-projects proposed
are improvement schernes to increase the capacity of existing drains.
Implementation of the schemes will provide relief from flooding to occupiers of residential and
commercial properties along the main drains. In some instances the improvements could have
indirect benefits on land values and future housing development Construction would also
provide economic benefits to the construction industry and the six study towns.
Construction of the sub-projects will inevitably cause a nuisance to residents, pedestrians and
other road users. There will be potential environmental impacts on the source of materials and
through the disposal of excess spoil. Excavation of drains is likely to impact upon the
archaeological record in four towns, Corozal, Orange Walk, San Ignacio/Santa Elena and
Benque. While in Dangriga and Punta Gorda, drain improvements will result in the loss of small
areas of critical habitats and possibly affect rare species.
It is recommended that the proposals for the mitigation and environmental plans are adopted.
Furthermore, it is considered that some of the problems identified in the EIA relate to wider
issues than those just concerned with drainage improvements. While the EMP puts forward a
number of modest packages to addres these issues, they need to be taken up at a national level.
Specific issues are land use planning and control institutional strengthening of local government,
and technical assistance in sanitation and solid waste disposal.
DocNoD r. DR   NW999                      ...9
AA:EA4doc



I



Introduction
1.1                 Background to the Project
In 1996, the Government of Belize (GoB) instructed Consultiberica-Halcrow to
conduct a studv on in'rastructure needs in Belize City (the Belize City Infrastructure
Project - BCIP). During this period, the GoB also cornrmissioned the consultants to
undertake a similar study for other towns in Belize (the Belize Urban Infrastructure
Project - BUIP). The six study towns were Corozal, Orange Walk, the twin towns of
San Ignacio and Santa Elena, Benque Viejo del Carmnen (known as Benque), Dangriga,
and Punta Gorda (Figure 1.1).
The study towns are located across the country. Corozal is the most northerly town,
located on the coast near the Mexican border. Orange Walk lies on the Northern
Highway some 70 km north west of Belize City. The twin towns of San lgnacio/Santa
Elena and Benque are located in the west of the country near the Guatemalan border
some 100-115 km from Belize Citv. Dangriga and Punta Gorda are coastal towns lvmg
in the southem part of the country some 60 km and 145 km respectively from Belize
City.
The BUIP identified a variety of problems in the six towns, the most common ones
being
a  lack of drainage
*  coastal erosion
* river bank erosion
* roads and traffic, and, in Punta Gorda, the airstrip
*  lack of social infrastructure
*  solid waste collection and disposal, and
*  water quality and sanitation.
To address these problems, the BUIP put forward recommnendations for:
improvements to the drainage systems
Oo N O wR- O D,} Moy 199    1
F \V\E -t T 



* upgrading roads, including road drainage, pedestrian/cycling facilities, and
junction improvements
•  coastal sea defences
•  river bank protection works
*  new airstrip and associated infrastructure (Punta Gorda only)
•  landscaping proposals in open spaces
*  pavements for schools
• refuse collection
•  traffic management, including parking.
The proposed schemes were designed and presented as an integrated programme of
infrastructure projects.
In August 1999, the Ministry of Works (MoW) instructed Halcrow to revise and
develop the proposed drainage works identified under the BUIP, including detailed
design, preparation of contract drawings and documents, an environmental impact
assessment and economic appraisal study.
1.2                  Outline of the Proposed Scheme
The current BUIP study has identified a series of drainage sub-projects to be
undertaken in each of the six studv towns. Each project is concemed with improving
main drainage systems within the administrative boundary of each town. The main
types of projects are:
renovation of existing main drains - including enlargement, straightening the
channel, and replacement of culverts
*   installation of new, unlined drains, in areas of low density housing
*   installation of lined drains in urban areas, covered where land-take is problematic
*   construction of gated structures for canals draining to Stann Creek in Dangriga to
prevent backwater effects when the river is in flood
*   outfall structures to the receiving waters - either rivers or the sea
*   outfall protection works for coastal outfalls.
A schedule of proposed drainage works is presented for each town in the relevant
sections of this report. The largest number of sub-projects has been identified for
Dangriga, where drainage is particularly problematic. A number of projects have also
DocNo N . : O  D   1995    2



been identified for Corozal. By comparison, the works proposed for Orange WValk, San
Ignacio/Santa Elena, Benque and Punta Gorda are smaller scale.
1.3                 The Environmental Impact Assessment Study
1.3.1               Scope of the ELA
This document is the final EnVironmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report. It sets out
the results of the study on the potential impacts of the proposed scheme on the
environment. The scope and contents of the EIA are based on the requirements of the
Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations, 1995 of Belize and guidelines
presented by the World Bank (1991).
1.3.2               Constrints to the ELA
This draft final EIA is based on available data describing the existing conditions in
Belize. Environmental data have been sought from government and non-govemment
organisations and published sources. However, there are difficulties in obtaining data,
its coverage and the length of record. Where appropriate weaknesses in the data have
been addressed bv using conservative estimates or the consultants' experience.
Ecological and archaeology surveys were commissioned to provide additional data on
the studv areas.
1.3.3               Struczurt of the ElA Reporn
Following this Introduction, the EIA report has been structured into a further
15 Sections which are outlined below
*   Section 2 - outlines an appreciation of the study area
*   Section 3 - describes the administrative and legal framework in Belize with
particular reference to the environment
*   Section 4 - explains the development of the proposed schemes in each town, and
the generic schemes
*   Section 5 - summarises the EIA methodology adopted and the potential impacts
based on generic descnrptions of construction and maintenance activities
*   Sections 6 - 11 - take each town in tum and describe the existing environmental
conditions, the proposed schemes and potential impacts
*   Section 12 - outlitnes the mitigation plan
*   Section 13 - describes institution issues which may affect project implementation
Do N.O Rcr 0 Dat Ma.y 1959  3
F \We\F-W A



*    Section 14 - outlines the proposals for an environmental management plan to
ensure that the rmitigation proposals are undertaken adequately
*    Section 15 - describes the consultation that has taken place with inter-government
agencies, the public and NGOs
*    Section 16 - presents the conclusions and recommnendations to the studv.
A copy of the terms of reference is attached as Appendix A. Supplementarv reports
on ecolog, archaeology, institutional issues, construction, and contract documents are
presented in Appendices B to F.
Further details on the engineering design and economic assessment of the schemes are
presented in separate reports.
DocN.O  R'  OD.. M.y 1999    4
F \W,e\Enurnel .se0m\ siw\eo\ir_c.o



2                   Appreciation of the Study Area
2.1                 Location
Belize is located in Central America along the westem shore of the Caribbean Sea,
bordered bv Mexico to the north and Guatemala to the west and south (Figure 1.1).
The topography of the south half of the country is dominated bv the Miava Mountains
which rise to over 800m. The remainder of the country consists of low lving plains,
generallv below 200m and characterised bv a subdued relief. In many coastal areas, the
plains lie barely above sea level, with numerous lagoons and creeks.
2.2                 Climate
The climate of Belize is subtropical, with high annual rainfall, pronounced wet and drv
seasons, high average daily temperatures, and high relative humidity. The mean annual
rainfaL increases across the countrv from some 150 cms in Corozal to 450 cms to the
south in Punta Gorda. The mean annual rainfall is seasonally distributed, with a
pronounced wet season between July and November, followed by the dry season
The prevailing winds are form the north east and east, rarelv exceeding speeds of 10-15
knots. The strongest winds tend to occur from April through to August, and the
weakest winds occur between September and December. There are significant diumal
differences, with stronger winds occurring during daylight hours due to thermal effects.
Belize is affected by extreme events associated with tropical stomis and hurricanes
originating in the Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea. The main season for hurricanes is
August to October with a peak in September (about 50% of occurrences in the period
1871-1991). Data on hurricanes suggest they have an average return period of about
7.5 years, however in reality there is much variability with two hurricanes occurring in
the same year and then not for 15 years. Hurricanes affect a relativelv narrowx width of
storm track of about 100 km or less. Preliminary estimates of return periods for
hurricane intensity at Belize City indicate a wind speeds of 110 mph for a 30 year
recurrence interval and 150 mph for a 100 year recurrence interval.
Tropical storms and hurricanes bring high intensity rainfall and strong winds which can
cause severe flooding and damage to property, infrastructure, trees and crops.
DocNoO  ,V C D-., My 1999   5
F VV\E---L;ommi \oeChwE>otF_o.o



Hurricane Janet (1955) destroved much of Corozal. Hurricane Hattie (1961) caused
extensive flooding and damage in Belize City, as a consequence of which the national
political and administrative seat for Belize was moved inland to a nev- town Belmopan,
constructed for that purpose. The country largely escaped the worst effects of
Hurricane Mitch (1998), which caused a 24 hour rainfall maximum with an estimated
returm period of about 1:7 years. However there was extensive flooding across the
country, and for several davs, Belize City was flooded twice daily during high tide.
2.3                 Hydrology
Numerous rivers nise in the Maya Mountains and drain to the coast. The largest of
these is the Macal niver (also known as the Eastem Branch of the Belize River) which
rises in the Mava Mountains and flows north and northeastwards before meeting the
Mopin River (Western Branch of the Belize River) which rises Ln Guatemala. The
Belize River then flows northeastwards to the sea discharging at Belize City. The
Mopan River is notably slower to rise following storm events than the Macal River,
and is characterised by lower hydrograph peaks. The maximum flow recorded in the 20
year record on the Mopan River at Benque is about 450 cumecs, compared with a
maximnum flow of the Macal River at Cristo Rev near San Ignacio of almost 4500
cumecs.
By contrast, northern Belize is drained bv the Neew River and Rio Hondo whose
drainage basins are characterised by wide shallow depressions in the west and centre of
the country. The New River flows northwards past Orange W;alk to discharge into
Chetumal Bay near Corozal. The hydrograph of the New River at Orange Walk is
characterised by low flows in the order of 20 cumecs during the dry season, rising
gradually through the wet season to about 150 cumecs.
On the coastal plains, the low slopes, subdued terrain and high rainfall result in large
areas of poorly drained terrain with swamps, lakes and lagoons.
2.4                 Land Use
The northern half of Belize is characterised by flat plains and palm savannahs, lagoons,
coastal swamps and some inland flat areas and hills supporting semi-deciduous,
broadleaf rainforest. The southern half of the country includes a narrow (about 15 krn
wide), low elevation coastal strip vegetated by marshes, savannahs, and some
rainforest, with evergreen forest and pine savannah associated with the Maya
0 R      I, :    1.o F  1   \9' 6 6 *



Mountains. Large areas of forests have been designated as Nanonal Parks and
protected areas.
Much of the natural vegetation in lowland Belize has been altered by human activities,
in particular through agricultre, including widespread slash and bur under tne
traditional 'milpa' form  of agriculture, and land clearance for urban development.
2.5                   The Coastline and Marine Processes
The configuration of the Belize coastline varies from the semi-enclosed Chetumal Bay
to the north to relatively open coastline to the south. Offshore there are over 1060
islands or caves of varving sizes, mostly consisting of coral reefs or flats of sand or
mud, lying within a barrier reef which extends the length of the country. This is the
world's second largest barrier reef, and the largest in the Westem Hemisphere. Inshore
of the barrier reef, the sea is generally shallow, particularly in Chetunal Bay and other
sheltered areas. The barrier reef and shallow waters help to protect the coast from the
force of storm waves.
The tides are semi-diumal with different amplitudes between the two mean high tides
and two mean low tides. The tidal range is low, with water levels normally varying by
less than 40 cms between the mean upper high tide and mean lower low tide. Water
levels changes are also generated bv winds, which can be ven, significant in the case of
hurricanes, creating a storm surge. Under normal conditions, wave heights are very
mild, usually under 0.5 m at Belize Citv. During hurricanes, wave heights may reach 5-
10 m in the open sea, but within the barrier reef are reduced to 4-6 m before breaking.
Sediment transport at the coastline tends to be dominated bv wave action which, in
Belize, is normally mild but persistent. Tidal currents near the shore are insignificant
except near river mouths. However, a persistent southerly current exists inside the
barrier reef with a velocity of about 0.5 m/s. This current, combined with dominant
winds from the north east and east, results in a general net trend for sediment
transport from north to south. Although under certain conditions sediment transport
can occur northwards, which is important at Dangriga.
The main sediment source is the rivers, particularly when they are in flood. Longshore
drift carries muds and silts discharged from rivers along the coast, in some areas
forming deposition features such as spits and bars across smaller rivers and canals.
D- No O F.R C r.- My 1999    7
F \         Am,.           \         doc



2.6                   Marine Ecology
The coastal waters of Belize support diverse ecosvstems and species manv of which are
economicallv and ecologically important, but suffer from degradation, pollution and
over-exploitation. There are five main habitats in the coastal zone, coral reefs, seagrass,
estuaries and wedands, mangroves, and littoral forest (Coastal Zone Management
Programme, 1995).
The barrier reef lies some 25-35 km offshore, extending some 220 km along the
coastline. Other coral reefs lie closer inshore, notably between Dangriga and Placencia,
where they are 6-12 km off the coast, and there are three atolls seaward of the barrier
reef The coral reefs are in a relatively good condition, but some adverse impacts have
been identified. The Coastal Zone Management Programme has identified several
major threats including nutrient enrichment from agriculture, industry and wastewater
effluents.
Seagrass areas lie inshore, and in the shallower waters among the coral reefs. Seagrass
habitats are important feeding areas for commercial species as well as threatened
species such as the West Indian Manatee (Tnchechus manatui). This habitat is generally in
good condition, but suffers locally from activities such as dredging, siltation, and
nutrient enrichment.
Estuaries and wetlands support diverse species, including manatees. These habitats are
primarily urider threat from development pressure. Mangrove habitats are found along
the coast, inland along rivers and lagoons, and to a lesser extent on the caves. This
habitat also supports diverse species, and provides protection from coastal erosion.
There are an estimated 296 square miles of mangrove in Belize, with 20% of mainland
mangrove lying in protected areas. Nonetheless mangroves are under threat,
particularly from land development. Finally the littoral forest is found on higher land
along the coast. This is probably the most threatened habitat in Belize, with less than
2000 ha remaining, due to land development pressures.
Coastal environments are also important for tourism, which, together with fisheries,
provide the main foreign exchange income for Belize. There is an extensive existing
and proposed management svstem for the coastal and marine environments of Belize.
Included in these is a system of marine and coastal protected areas (Figure 2.1).
D- So C R-: C D-, M. 19  8
F \eEtcsxu ssml \r*l bF\o r  u_o.o



Additional details of the broader coastal and marine management framework are
described in the state of the coastal zone report (CZMP, 1995).
2.7                 Human Settlement
Much of Belize has been under more or less continuous setdement for at least 2000
vears. Mava populations were established from 1000 BC, and even after the so-called
Maya Collapse (800/900 AD), populations can be detected weL into the histoncal,
colonial period (post 1550).
Many of today's towns and villages mav have developed from Maya and Colonial
settlements. One of the earliest known Mava sites is found at Cuello, some 3 km west
of Orange Walk, which was occupied in the Formative Period (1000 BC to 250 AD).
By contrast, Corozal has been built largely over the Santa Rita archaeological site which
was occupied from the Formative Period and into the early Colonial period (16 th
century). The study towns San Ignacio and Benque are also built close to known Maya
sites.
The present day population of Belize is about 230,000 (1997 estimate), of which a
slightly higher proportion (115,975) live in urban areas. The six towns in the studv are
relatively small, ranging from Punta Gorda with an estimated number of inhabitants of
3,680 in 1998 to Orange Walk with an estimated population of 15,055 in 1998.
Population growth in Belize has been relatively steady over the last twenty years, and is
expected to continue to increase at a similar rate of about 2.75% pa in the near future.
All the towns in the study are expenencing urban expansion for various reasons,
including natural increase, migration from rural to urban areas, and immigration from
Guatemala and Mexico.
2.8                  Urban Drainage
The study towns are characterised by a lack of a coherent drainage system. This is in
large part due to the weaknesses in urban planning (see Section 3). The lack of land
zonation and building control results in construction in unsuitable locations such as
natural depressions, swamps and floodplains. Furthermore, land subdivision and
housing construction takes place without adequate provision for services and facilities.
For example, land is often subdivided on a grid system without regard to local
topographv and drainage, developers do not always provide road drainage, and roads
D.,N.O F- O D0e U 199S   9
F:  I¢\:  neasAssmnt\loez\Ew   Rpr  i_o.o



and local service roads are often raised to protect them from flooding, leaving housing
plots in shallow depressions where water accumulates.
Where drainage is provided, flooding may still occur due to the undersizing of drains
and culverts. Furthermore, self-help arrangements undertaken by plot holders to
reduce flooding on their land exacerbate local flooding problems. It is common
practice for landowners to raise their land before development by adding sediment,
which is relatively expensive, and even domestic waste. This practice may aggravate
flooding and drainage on adjacent plots. Householders take other forrns of action to
relieve local floodingz, often creating problerns for neighbours. For example, blocking
or infilling existing drains on their propertv, building their houses over drains w ith or
without adequately sized culverts, and building walls around their property to keep
floodwaters out.
The most comprehensive provision for main urban drainage is to be found in
Dangriga where stormwater drainage is facilitated by a number of canals. Several of the
towns possess one or two urban drains, often called magoons, which flow through
them. Some of the magoons may once have been excavated along natural drainage
lines, for example in Corozal, Benque, and Punta Gorda. Neither Orange Walk nor
San Ignacio and Santa Elena have what could be called a strategic urban drainage
svstem. Some of the main roads in the study towns have street drains, but many do
not, causing local flooding during wet weather.
2.9                 Water Supply
In each of the six towns, drinking water is supplied, treated and distributed by the
Water and Sewerage Authority (WASA). The source of drinking water varies between
towns, coming from springs and rivers in Benque and Dangriga, and groundwater
wells in Corozal, Orange Walk, San Ignacio-Santa Elena and Punta Gorda. It is also
common practice for householders to collect and drink rainwater. The WASA office in
Corozal commented that usage of piped drinking water increases significantl during
the dry season when there is less reliance on rainwater. In Dangriga, reports were also
received of people taking water from Stann Creek, although there were conflicting
comments on whether this water was used for drinking and cooking or other purposes
The water supplv for Dangriga is abstracted from Stann Creek some 3 km upstrearn of
the town and undergoes fill chernical treatment comprising flocculation with alum,
Do N.O  R- C D,: Me19  109



sedimnentation and disinfection with chlorine. In the other towns, the crude water is
chlorinated prior to distribution. Chlorine dosing at the plants are relatively high, often
at 1.5 mg/I, in order to achieve residual chlorine levels of at least 0.5 mg/l at the
furthest point in the distribution system.
All the study towns enjoy a piped water supply system. Little concrete information was
obtained from the WASA offices in each town on the household connection rate for
householders. Estimates provided from the local WASA offices varied from only 250/0
in Corozal to 90% in Orange Walk and Punta Gorda.
WASA collect and analyse water samples taken from the crude water, treated water,
and water in the distribution system for each town on a monthly basis. The samples are
taken to the central WASA laboratory near Ladyville, Belize City, and are tested for a
suite of parameters including chlorides, salinity, conductivity, nitrates and total
dissolved solids as weL as bacteriological indicators. The Public Health Bureau (PHB)
also carries out water sampling and bacteriological analysis of drinking water sources m
rural areas.
The WASA 1998 Annual Water Quality Report summaries the water quality analyses
for the crude and treated water undertaken in the year. The physical and chemical
quality of the raw and treated water is considered to be good and within WHO
guidelines. However the bacteriological quality is less satisfactory, with samples of
treated water taken from the distribution system containing faecal coliforms. The
presence of faecal coliforrns in the drinking water was frequently attributed to poor
chlorination rather than cross contamination of the distribution system where pipes
cross drains.
2.10                 Sanitatdon and WastewaterDisposal
Pipe wastewater collection systems and wastewater treatment plants have only been
built in Belize City and Belmopan.
In the study towns, most premises are served by septic tanks with a soakaway or pit
latrines. In Corozal, which lies in a limestone area, many of the septic tanks are not
constructed with bottoms and act as soakaways. Pit latrines discharge sewage directly
to the ground. The PHB commented that, given the environmental conditions, the use
of pit latrines causes environmental health problems in Punta Gorda. Here the shallow,
Do: N. C F- O Da. My 1999 199
F \i\ltLrSl   ^ltP0%\h W\    otFL_o.o



low permeability soils and high ground make it is difficult to dig a deep pit, the side
walls cave in, the pit fills quickly, and overflows during heavy rain. Maya indians
customarily defecate on the land rather than in latrines, which can cause problems
where Maya move into the outskirts of towns.
It is common practice throughout Belize to discharge grey water (rainwater and sullage
from households) into the urban drains. Commercial and industrial prerises also
routinely discharge wastewater to the drains. This situation is partly due to the lack of
enforcement of the legislation prohibiting such discharge (Chapter 31 of the Laws of
Belize) by the PHB. The location of soakawa,vs for septic tanks and pit latrines within
the household plot are supposed to be govemed through Chapter 31. However,
soakaways and pit latrines are often located too close to drains, making contamination
through infiltration possible.
No data have been found on groundwater quality, but it is widely assumed that
groundwater in urban areas is contaminated by discharges from soakaways and pit
latrines. The PHB particularly considered this to be the case in Punta Gorda, and also
in Corozal, where there are concems over contamination of nearshore waters from
seepage from polluted groundwaters. The contamination of groundwaters can also lead
to reduced water quality in the urban drains due to infiltration.
No data were found on the water quality of the urban drains. Again it is widely
believed that these are contaminated by direct discharges or indirecdy through
groundwater infiltration. The concentration of pollutants in the drains may be diluted
during the rainy season due to rainfall and natural springs. Where the drains are free-
flowing, flushing action will serve to evacuate contaminated drainage water quickly.
The servicing of septic tanks through the study towns is haphazard and uncontrolled.
The PHB in Belize CiGt has a single vehicle to service the whole country. They tend to
service the City itself, and key installations such as hospitals in other towns. A pnrvate
individual in San Ignacio also has a single vehicle, and is known to collect septage as far
as Punta Gorda, and others have made applications to the Health Ministry to enter the
business. The septage is normally disposed of at a dedicated site at or close to the
municipal solid waste disposal site. The waste infiltrates into the ground and dries out
in the sun. However, septage is also known to be disposed of at non-designated sites.
Do- No  - O D, Me 1995   12



2.11                 Solid Waste Disposal
Solid waste disposal services are in the process of being privatised, with the collecuon
of domestic waste being undertaken by contractors, and the collection of other wastes
remaining with the Town Boards (see Appendix D).
Each town has a designated site for the disposal of solid waste. However these sites are
not designed as sanitarv landfills and disposal operations at the dumps are
uncontrolled. Fly tipping is illegal, but frequendvl practised. This is a particulariy acute
problem in Dangriga, where solid waste (cars and parts thereof, cookers, tins, plastics,
etc) is dumped on houseplots, in drains and along roads. The municipal dump for
Dangriga lies approximatelv 10 km out of the town, on the road to Punta Gorda,
which is probably too far. Fly-tipping within urban areas is less evident in the other
towns, but still occurs, especiallv in more rural areas and on the approaches to the
town dumps for example in Orange Walk.
2.12                 Water-Related Diseases
The presence of large areas of swamps dose to towns and standing water around
household plots provides suitable habitats for disease vectors, particularly various
species of mosquito which carry malaria such as Anropheks .r, and Aedes egypt/ which
transmits dengue. Furthermore the poor sanitation conditions and pollution of ground
and surface waters also potentially contribute to other types of water-bome diseases.
Table 2.1 summarises cases of some comrmunicable and notifiable diseases in Belize.
The number of cases of malaria was relatively stable in the 1980s, but increased three-
fold peaking in 1994 and then falling from the mid 1990s. In recent years, the large
majority of cases of malaria are Plarsmodium zivax, with 3-5% of the total number of
cases being Plasmo&m faciarmm. Insufficient data are available to examine trends in
dengue fever, although the number of cases is low. Manv of the reported cases of
malaria and dengue are found in rural areas rather than in towns, where the number of
cases are low as a result of preventative measures such as vector control.
The number of cases of diseases associated with poor sanitation and deficiencies in
drinking water (such as dysentery, hepatitis and cholera) are relatively low, although the
number of cholera cases did rise in 1992 and 1993.
D., N. D R-o  El- Ma 1999   13
F \               \



Table 2.1 Reported Cases of Communicable and Notifiable Diseases in Belize
Disease             1987        1988       1989       1990        1991       1992        1993       1994        1995       1996        1997
Gstroenterisn               3103        1899       1299       1329        1110        963       N,'A         456         795        1?39       1092
Maani;                      3353       2725        3209       3052        3036       5175        8671      10411        9413       6605        4014
Dvsenterv                      37         26           6          5          0           0          0           O          0          32         54
Hepatitis                      94        175           0         77         36           0         25          64         Z2          13         29
( Cholera                       0          Q          0           0          0        159         135           6         18          26          2
Dengue                      N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A         N,/A       N/A        N/A         N/A          107           0         30
Sourcc: Centrl Stausticad Office 1998
Doc N O Rv: C Date  , 29          2414
F: ae\nr  nnn   #e  \rlc Ew  Fro  fn:Nsd 



3                   Environmental Legislation Framework
3.1                 Poitical and Admi&istrative Framework
3..                 The PoIiLcal System
The Government of Belize is based on a bicameral svstem with a Govemor-General
representing the Queen as Head of State. There are two Houses, the House of
Representatives with 28 seats and the House of Senate with eight seats. Members of
the House of Representatives (also known as Area Representatives) are elected by the
populace for a five vear term while the members of the House of Senate are apponted
by the Governor-General, five on the advice of the Prime Minister, two on the advice
of the leader of the opposition, and one on the advice of the Belizean Advisory
Council. The leader of the majority party is appointed as Prime Minister by the
Govemor-General. The Prime Minister advises the Govemor-General on the
appointnent of Ministers who may be drawn from either House.
Following the latest Ministry reshuffle, announced in the Belize Gazette Extraordinary
No. 45 of 7th October 1999, there are presently 17 Ministries, including the Ministry
of Works, Transport, Citrus and Banana Industries, the Ministry of Natural Resources,
the Environment and Industry, and the Ministry of Tourism and Youth.
The Ministry of Works (MoW) is responsible for the construction and maintenance of
bridges and roads, and land reclamation. It also has budget for drainage-related works
in Belize City and other rnain towns, and bridges. In the latest government reshuffle, it
has also taken on responsibilities for the Citrus and Banana Industries.
The Department of the Environment (DoE) is a relatively new government
departnent, created under the 1992 Environmental Protection Act. It currently forms
part of the Ministry of Natural Resources, the Environment and Industry. Under the
EPA, the DoE has a wide range of functions, covering the prevention and control of
environmental pollution, conservation and management of natural resources, and
environmental impact assessment.
DocNo.O F 0 D., MNy 1999   15



The Department of Archaeology has responsibilities regarding the conservation and
protection of archaeological sites and artefacts in Belize. It forms part of the Ministry
of Tourism and Youth.
3.12                The Administra4eve 5ysjm
The administrative centre and capital of Belize is located at Belmopan, 83 km west of
Belize City, although a small number of ministry offices remain in Belize Citv.
Belize is divided into six districts, from north to south, Corozal, Orange Walk, Belize,
Cayo, Stann Creek and Toledo. The districts are used as a demarcation for most of the
government's activities. However, the districts are not autonomous and cannot dictate
policy, laws and other items that may affect the entire country.
Local government is based on Town Boards consisting of seven elected counciliors
and a mavor elected by them. This system is likely to change in the near future so that
the mavor is also elected by the community. The Town Boards employ non-elected
staff such as the Town Cerk, Foreman and labourers.
The Town Boards receive funds from central government and have powers to raise
funds locallv through a land tax. They are responsible for administering their own
budgets and undertake activities such as the repair of roads and drains within the town
boundary. Waste disposal activities are in the process of being privatised. Given the
reliance on central government funds, the Town Boards are not autonomous and are
affected by political interference. A review of the institutional capability of the Town
Boards in the six study towns for the BUIP is presented in Appendix D.
3.2                 The Planring System and Related Legislation
There is a lack of national strategic planning in Belize, and only patchy control of land
development within the country.
To date no national plan for physical development in Belize has been prepared. At
present, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is funding a regional planning
study for southem Belize - the Environmental Social Technical Assistance Project
(ESTAP) - which is linked to the Govemrnment's plans for opening up southem Belize
by improving the Southem Highway. ESTAP is expected to report its findings this
Do-N.O R- O D.. Me 199V   16



autumn (1999). It is understood from meetings with the Ministry of Economic Affairs
in April 1999, that the GoB would like to undertake a similar studv for northem Belize.
The subdivision of land, both urban and rural, is govemed by the Land ULtilisation Act
1981, as amended in 1990. Under this legislation, the applicant has to make two
separate applications to the Land Subdivision and Utilisation Authority (LUA) firsdtl
for provisional approval and then for final approval. The submission for provisional
approval must provide information about the applicant, the development and the site,
(including information pertaining to drainage) and be accompanied by a map. To
obtain the final approval the applicant must submit more detailed information
including a survey of the plot and information on infrastructure provision. The LUA
usually circulates the application to the DoE, WASA, and Land and Surveys for
comment prior to approval. For larger projects, the DoE may require a Compliance
Plan or an EIA study. The land subdivision can not be registered, and the tdes to the
lots awarded, until the LUA has approved the subdivision.
Under Part II of the Land Utilisation Act, the Minister has powers inter afia to
demarcate Special Development Areas (SDA) which are aimed at directing
development in rural areas. A Development Plan is prepared for each SDA which sets
out recommended zones and densities of permitted development. Anyone wishing to
develop land within an SDA should obtain permission from the LUA.
The Department of Physical Planning does not have sufficient powers under the
present Land Utilisation Act to enforce the recommended development densities and
the penalties for infringements of the Act are too small to act as a deterrent.
Consequently the Development Plans can only act as a guide to preferred development
rather than a control on development. There are also overlaps between the Land
Utilisation Act and the Housing and Town Pianning Act 1957 (see below). The Land
Utilisation Act is current1y under revision to address these issues.
Corozal District North, Corozal District East, Cayo District West, Orange Walk
District East have been declared as SDAs. The two SDAs in Corozal do not include
Corozal Town whereas the Cayo District West does include the twin towns of San
Ignacio and Santa Elena. The Orange Walk District East Development Plan is in
preparation.
D-cNoC FR C D- MA 1999   17
F \5/Xn::rms Ansmn\Yyo\bpRpr\m_o.O



Planning schemes, including regional schemes, town planning schemes, re-
development schemes and housing schemes, can be prepared under Part 2 of the
Housing and Town Planning Act 1957. While no specific areas were declared for
planning schemes within the Act, several Orders have since been promulgated under
the Act to prepare town planning schemes for Belize City, Corozal, Dangriga and San
Pedro.
Corozal was destroyed during Hurricane Janet in 1955 and Dangriga suffered under
Hurricane Hattie 1961. Both towns had to be substantially redeveloped. The Corozal
and Dangriga Town Planning Scheme Notices were approved and published under
Chapter 148 of Housing and Town Planning of the Laws of Belize in 1964. The
Notices set out permnitted land uses within the area of jurisdiction of the Plan. The type
and extent of these land uses are described in the Notice and illustrated on plans.
Within the plan area, developers have to obtain building permission from the Town
Boards prior to constructing a new building or extension to an existing one. The
application has to comply with the building regulations set out in the Fifth Schedule of
the Notice which describes the information to be submitted to the Town Board and
building requirements such as the lavout, boundaries, sanitation, and the provision for
drainage on the plot. The Sixth Schedule contains the application form.
It is not known to what extent urban development in Corozal and Dangriga comply
with the zoning and procedures prescribed in the Planning Scheme Notices. The
Notices themselves have not been updated, and, given the growth of these towns over
the last 30 years, the zoning plans are very likelv to be out of date. It is understood
that, outside of those towns for which a town planning scheme has been approved,
there is no requirement for landowners to obtain building permission for new
properties or extensions, other than the requirements goveming land subdivision
described above.
Where projects involve the compulsory purchase of private land, there are prescribed
requirements for evaluating property and calculating financial compensation to land
owners. The concept of reasonable compensation for compulsory purchase is
incorporated into the Constitution.
In addition to the planning regulations described above, certain projects may need to
obtain licences or permits to comply with environmental legislation as outlined below.
DNoC R,v C D", Me. 1999   18
F \W,\Er,o,,ma A



3.3                  Environmental Legislation
3.3j. 1             EnzironmentalProteczion Ac 1992
The Environmental Protection Act (No. 22 of 1992) as amended (1998) is the main
legal instrulment to protect the environment and control pollution. The Act establishes
a Departmnent of the Environment and grants it broad regulatory and enforcement
authoritv for the prevention and control of environmental pollution, conservation and
management of natural resources, and control of environmental impact assessment
procedures. The Act also covers other issues principally the prevention and control of
environmental pollution, dumping at sea, and environmental impact assessment.
3.3.2               ;EnzironmentalI,pact Assessment
The Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations were brought into effect in 1995
under Statutorv Instrument (SI) No. 107 of 1995. The main elements of the
Regulations are sunmmarised below.
The EIA Regulations identifv those projects for which an EIA is obligatory (Schedule I
projects) and those for which an EIA is discretionary (Schedule II projects). Schedule I
projects include major waterworks such as dams, impoundments, alteration of river
banks and shoreline, alteration of groundwater, diversion of water courses, and
modification of stream flows. Schedule II projects include large scale housing
developments, urban development, and canalisation or flood relief works. Guidelines
for evaluating whether projects fall into Schedule II include
*   all applications for building in coastal areas
*   all applications for building near or in ecologically sensitive areas (swamps,
marshes, mangrove area etc)
*   applications with proposed sites located in the primarv flood plain of a major
river or stream.
Anyone wishing to develop a project, including private individuals, and private and
public agencies and institutions (except those which are exempted under these
Regulations), has to obtain a ruling from the DoE as to whether an EIA is required.
The developer can obtain an environmental checklist from the DoE to assist them in
preparing their application. The DoE will make a decision based on the information
presented as to whether an ELA is required and is to notify the developer of their
decision within 30 davs of receipt of the information.
DOCNOO .,V C ,, ,y 1995    19
F W\VtO t SSmPSI\5=FJOSFmNO O



Where the DoE decides that a project specified under Schedule II does not require an
EIA, the developer can proceed with the undertaking, subject to any other Act or
Regulation or guidelines or conditions laid down bv the DoE.
If the DoE determnines that an EIA is required .under the Regulations, it will order one
to be carried out. The Developer is responsible for drafting the Terms of Reference
(ToR) for the EIA, which have to be approved by the DoE, undertaking the EIA
study, and submitting a report on the results to the DoE.
The Regulations require public consultation during the EIA process, particularlv with
those within or immediatelv adjacent to the geographical area of the development. The
aims of the consultation process are to provide information to those who will be
affected and to record the concems of the local community regarding the
environmental impact of the proposed undertaking. The DoE may invite written
comments from interested persons concerning the EIA and may forward wntten
comments to the developer who must respond to any pertinent questions. The
procedure for public consultation is determined by the DoE.
There are requirements for notifying the public about the ETA through publishing a
notice in the newspaper. This notice has to state the name of the applicant, the project,
the existence of the EIA report, opportunities for viewing the report and procedures
for filing comments or objections. A copy of the newspaper containing the notice has
to be submitted together with the EIA report to the DoE.
The contents of the EIA report is prescribed in the Regulations. The EIA report has to
be sent to the DoE for approval. The DoE has to determrine whether the report
complies with the ToR, determine whether any further work is required, and whether
any significant harmful effects are indicated by the studies. The EIA report is then
reviewed by the National Environmental Appraisal Comrmrittee (NEAC) which advises
the DoE of the adequacy or otherwise of the EIA and the need for a public hearing.
NEAC is made up of nominees from all the main government mninistries
(Environment, Commissioner of Lands, Housing and Planning, Forestry, Fisheries,
Hydrology, Archaeology, Geology and Petroleum, and Agriculture) and two non-
govemment representatives appointed by the Minister on the recomrmendation of the
DoE.
D., No C R-v  Date Me 1999   20
F 1ae\Wu oenimntPoecIF,-IRpot\FWiNw d 



The DoE has to advise the developer of its decision on the development within 60
days after receipt of the completed EIA. If the EIA is found to be deficient, the
developer mav be required to supply further information and cannot proceed with the
development during this period. Where the DoE decides that a proposal shall not
proceed, the developer mav appeal within 30 davs to the M4inister against the decision
of the Departrnent.
Anyone who supplies false data or contravenes the provisions of the Regulations
commits an offence and is liable to a penalty consisting of a fine or imprisonment.
3.3.3                 WiiJIife Protection Act 1981
The Wildlife Protection Act controls hunting (meaning killing, taking or molesting of
wildlife, or attempting to do so, by any method), research and trade in wildlife. It
specificallv protects the hunting of species listed in the Schedule, including the West
Indian Manatee (Trihechus manatus), Salt-water crocodile (CrocodyLus amtus) and
Morelet's crocodile (Crocody1us norvletz), all species of sea turtles, Black Howler Monkey
(Alouatta zillosa) and all birds with six exceptions. The Act also controls the hunting of
other species of wildlife. Dealer's in wildlife have to be in possession of a valid dealer's
licence issued under Section 13 of the Act.
3.3.4                 Forests (Protection of Mangroves) Regulations
The Forests (Protection of Mangroves) Regulations, 1989, Chapter 179 of the Laws of
Belize, and its amendment (1992), controls the clearance mangroves through the
issuance of a permit. The permitting system applies to both privatelv owned and public
lands. Applicants have to complete a form and submit it to the Forestry Department.
The Department has to inform the applicant of the need for additional information,
omission or errors in the application, and whether the application requires a permit or
is exempt. Where the applicant wishes to alter an area of mangroves in excess of one
acre, the Forestrv Department has to place a notice in the local newspaper to that
effect.
In deciding whether to grant a permit, the Department has to take account of:
* the effects of alteration of the mangrove on water quality
Doc No 0   C Dv,e Mos 1,95?    21
F \5;lrumt t\Re5rbl\0t1_D  o



* whether the alteration of the mangrove is contrary to the public interest, or, where
the application would significantly degrade or change the environment, whether
the action would be beneficial in the larger and long term interest of the people of
Belize-
*  the economic and environmental impacts of the project
* where the application will have significant environrmental effects, any mnitigation
measures proposed by, or accepted by, the applicant
* the impact of projects which already exist or are under construction for which
permits are already being sought
e existing or proposed national, regional and local land-use plans.
The Department may grant permits with specific conditions or variances from the
provisions of the Regulation. Permits will not be granted under certain circumstances
such as alteration of mangroves by chemnicals, mangroves which are designated by the
Departnent as nesting sites for a colony or conspicuous concentration of birds, and
mangroves in protected areas.
Permits are not required for the alteration of mangroves for communications or other
utility companies, by a licensed land surveyor in the performance of his duties, or for
selective trimming of mangroves by the landowner for a property lot. There are
specific requirements for the removal of plant mnaterial cut from selective trimmings
and a prohibition on the use of pruning paint.
The fine for not complying wvith the legislation is BzI000 (USS500).
3.3.5                Other Forcsty Related Lcgislation
There are a number of legal instruments related to forestry. Of particular importance,
with regards this project, is the requirement to obtain a licence where trees are cut and
sold cornmercially and to pay royalties to the Govemrnent on timber. Royalties may be
waived where the timber is reused by Govemment.
Doc No 0 R: 0 Dtb: NF 1999   22                                                                                   )
F\eEtosam\r1tbpRpnF   o.o



The main legal act is the Forestry Act (Chapter 176) which, amongst other things,
provides for the setting and payment of royalties on commercial timber. The Forest
Rules cover the provisions for forest licenses. These set out five types of forest licence
including:
*  a forest Lcence for commercial scale exploitation of forests except chicle or crown
gum
*  aforestpermit for working forest products in a timber salvage area where the rovalty
value does not exceed 100OBz.
*   ape.ypermit for working forest products where the royalty value does not exceed
5OBz - this is intended for small scale, plot clearance
The Forests (Protection of Trees) Regulations (SI 49 of 1992) prohibits the felling of
certain species for lumber without a licence.
3.32.6              4Ancient Monuments and AntiqAues Ordinance
The Ancient Monuments and Antiquities Ordinance (Ch 259) govems the protection
of structures more than 100 years old and artefacts over 150 years old. Under this
Ordinance, ancient monuments and artefacts are vested in the Crown, with possession
of sites and artefacts held under licence granted by the Minister. Anyone finding an
ancient monument or artefact has to report the find to the Minister within 14 days.
The Minister can decide to acquire possession of the ancient monument or antiquity in
the national interest and compensate the finder. Under certain circumstances the
Minister can declare land containing or adjacent to ancient monuments as an
Archaeological Reserve and specify the rules goveming their management.
The Minister may grant permits
*    to suitable persons or groups of persons wishing to search for, explore or
excavate ancient monuments or antiquities, subject to any conditions specified in
the permit (Article 16a), and
*    to any occupier to demolish an ancient monument situated on the occupier's land
for agricultural or industrial reasons, subject to any conditions in the permit
(Article 16b).
DDc No C F O D-   c M.y 199C   23
F \W,\B-.--; n    \



Anvone acting under license granted in accordance with Art. 16a who discovers an
ancient monument or antiquity, has to report the find to the Minister. Similarly, anyone
exercising their rights under Art. 16a who removes any ancient monument or antiquity
has to report the details to the Minister within 15 days. Subject to the provisions in the
Ordinance, it is illegal for anvone to damage, destroy, or disturb ancient monuments;
remove any antiquitY from the site, or destroy the antiquity.
The Archaeological Commissioner may direct the landowner, contractor or other
person about to engage in activity which may destroy, damage, interfere with or
otherwise be detrimental to an ancient monument or antiquity
-   not to proceed with any operation until the Archaeological Commissioner has
had an archaeological exploration carried out, and
*   to take, or refrain from taking action to protect the ancient monument or
antiquity.
3.3.7               Pollation Regula6ions 1996
The Pollution Regulations (SI No 56 of 1996) are concemed with the control of
pollutants to the air, land and water. Of particular interest to this project, are the
provisions conceming airbome dust and noise abatement.
Under Part IV Section 11 no person shall cause or permit the extracting, crushing,
screening, handling or conveyance of materials or other operations likely to give rise to
airbome dust without taking reasonable precautions, by means of spray bars or wetting
agents, to prevent particulate matter from becomning airbome. Article 12 prohibits in
urban areas the buming of rubbish and other material in such a way as to cause a
nuisance, or burning refuse in a commercial area instead of making provision for
adequate cleaning.
Part XI of the Regulations covers noise abatement.. Under the Regulations it is an
offence to emit 'unreasonable noise'. The Second Schedule to the Act sets limit noise
levels for given durations during the day and at night in different types of buildings.
3.3.8              MAine and Minerals (Genera9 Regulations 1994
The Mines and Minerals (General) Regulations (SI No 24 of 1994) enacts the general
provisions of the Mines and Minerals Act (Cap. 183). Standard mining licences contain
Dc No C R C D.: May 1999   24                                                                                3



provisions for the preservation and protection of the natural environment in the area
of the licence, and to take corrective actions to ensure that the mining activities do not
adversely affect the environment. Licence conditions may include provisions to control
soil erosion, avoid air and water pollution, disposal of wastes and replanting. Quarry
permits contain provisions for the rehabilitation, restoration, or reforestation of anv
part of the quarrv that may have been damaged by prospecting or mining operations.
3.3.9                Pubk: Health
Chapter 31 of the Laws of Belize govems public health. Areas of interest covered
under this Chapter are buildings and privvies, drains and water supply (including
rainwater), infectious diseases, mosquito destruction, sanitation and prevention of
nuisances. Articies relevant to this study are
*   Article 52 - permits Town Boards to construct and maintain drains to remove
surface and floodwater within their jurisdiction
*   Article 53 - permits the medical health office to require householders to make
drains for floodwater under certain circumstances
*   Article 133 - prohibits persons from causing a nuisance on their property
*    Article 135 - defines 'nuisance'. This includes runoff of foul or noxious water
from premises, rubbish and wastewaters which facilitate the breeding of a variety
of organisms which can cause harm to people or domestic animals, and
waterbodies which contain mosquito larvae.
*   Article 137 - permnits a local authority to serve notice on the author of a nuisance,
including discharges of wastewater to urban drains
*    Article 148 - permits the medical office of health to give notice to a owner or
occupier to remove and dispose of elsewhere, any unsuitable material being used
for land raising.
3.4                  International Treaties and Conventions
Belize is a signatory to a number of intemational treaties and conventions, including
the following which might have a bearing on this project
*    Convention concerning the protection of the world cultural and natural heritage
(World Heritage Convention) 1975 - Under this treatv countries can nominate
sites within their territon, for designation as natural and cultural sites of
'outstanding universal value'.
D" No O R-v   ,a My 1995   25



*   Convention on the Intemational Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES), September 1981 - This Convention involves prohibiting trade in
species threatened with extinction and controlling trade in endangered species
and their products.
*   International Plant Protection Convention, Mav 1987 - The objectives of this
Convention are to control plant pests and diseases, and their spread across
national boundaries. This is achieved through regulations on the import and
export of plants and plant matter.
*   Convention on Biological Diversity, June 1992 - This Convention promotes a
range of actions to conserve biological diversitv through the protection of areas,
the protection of species, the control of processes which may harm biological
diversity, and the need for enVironmental impact assessments.
DDC N. O o- O D.A.7 I9   26 



4                  Programme of Projects
4.1                Development of the Programme of Schemes
The progranmme of drainage works was developed during the BUIP study in 1996
which presented a series of unique engineering solutions for each drainage contract.
The design of the drainage works was determined by the following criteria.
*   The topographv and natural drainage pattems which control the pattern of runoff
in the catchment and low lying areas susceptible to flooding-
e   Project requirement to irnprove main drainage. The project is concemed with
improving main drainage within the town boundaries, and not secondarv drainage
or local problems, other major flooding problems outside the administrative
boundaries of the six towns, or flooding due to rivers.
* Design criteria. The main drains were designed to evacuate runoff for 30 mninute
rainfaD with a 1:10 year return period. This excludes extreme events, such as
flooding during hurricanes.
*   Practicality. The engineering designs needed to provide a practical solution in
temas of efficiency, ease of construction and maintenance.
*   Cost. The cost of construction and maintenance needed to be appropriate for the
scale of the problem and the resources of govemrnment.
*   Land use. Schemes were designed to minimise land-take from private property. In
built up areas, where land is constrained by housing or roads, preference was
given to the use of lined drains which are more expensive to construct, but
require less land. In some circumstances where access or land use is highly
constrained, for example along roads, covered drains are preferred, although in
general covered drains were not selected due to cost and maintenance difficulties.
In rural areas, and areas with low density housing, unlined drains are preferred.
Doc No 0 R, 0 Dat My 1999   27
F \We \E- -=!rrt  T s   Ptla \hup\RprtFa_o.o



4.2                 Development ofAltematives
There are two basic scenarios for drainage works, namelyv
*   do nothing - ie undertake no works additional to the existing level of capital
works and routine maintenance, or
*   do something - ie undertake the proposed drainage works.
The 'Do Nothing' scenario would mean that the current flooding problem would
continue as at present.
There is lirnited scope for developing altemative solutions for the 'Do Something'
scenario.
The location of works is determined by the topography, existing drainage system and
location of flood prone areas and to a considerable extent is fixed. Localised flooding
problems were considered to be outside the scope of the project.
The main design option was for lined or unlined drains. The larger lined drains would
have to be braced with struts, and in congested areas would be covered.
There is potentially some flexibility in the phasing of works both between and within
towns. It is currently proposed to construct the proposed sub-projects in three phases.
The selection of subprojects for each phase has been made on the basis of the urgency
of the scheme, the number of properties benefiting and costs. The phasing of works
has implications for:
*   the specific impacts to be expected within each construction phase,
*   the cumulative impacts on residents and road users due to construction
nuisances, temporarv road closures etc within any one construction phase, and
*   the ability of the relevant authorities to supervise the works and ensure
implementation of any proposed environmental mitigation works.
4.3                 Design Cziteria
4.3.1               Storm water Runoff
The aim of provision of stormwater drainage in each of the towns is to create suitable
conditions for stormwater to be drained away as quickly as possible from areas where
Doc No  P: C D: w 199     28 



it might cause damage or inconvenience. Stormwater drainage systems should perform
reliably within the limitations of their design and given a reasonable amount of routine
maintenance. It is not proposed to design against extreme events, such as hurricanes as
the costs involved would be prohibitively expensive.
4.3.2               Deszgn RPanf1a& Intenszy
An assessment of the design rainfall intensity for each of the project towns was
undertaken as part of the BUIP studies carried out in 1996. The methodology and
determination of the various design storm intensities for each of the towns is described
in detail in Halcrow, 1996, Appendix I of Annex B. The assessment was based on a
probability analysis of storms depths and the development of depth-duration-
frequency quantities for each town.
The drainage improvement works have been designed to evacuate effectively the peak
stormn runoff from a ten year return period storm event of 30 minute duration. The ten
year event has been chosen to provide a reasonable level of protection for the town.
The same event was adopted for the design of the recently constructed drainage works
for Belize City.
Table 4.1 shows the 30 minute storm risk for different return periods for the six towns
TIalcrow, 1996).
Table 4.1       30 minute storm risk for the six towns
Duration                Storm Risk (mm) for Return Period (yrs)
30 mins           .2      5      10    .20       5O      100     200
Corozal           22     31      37     44      53       61      70
Orange Walk         22      31     37      44      53      61       70
San Ignacio/Santa Elena    19    27     34      42      55      68       83
Benque            19     27      34     42      55       68      83
Dangriga           30     39     46      51      59       65      70
Punta Gorda         36      44     49      54      60      65       70
Doc NoO R tC Da. M2 1999   29
F \ WUn=orm 8GLP lc iw Rpr  klNo.o



For the project towns, the peak rainfall intensity for a 10 year, 30 minute event are
estimated to be:
*  Corozal and Orange Walk                          75mm/hr
*  San Ignacio, Santa Elena and Benque              70mm/hr
*  Dangriga                                         90mnn/hr
*  Punta Gorda                                      100nmn/hr
4.3.3               Design Runoff lntensities
Runoff coefficients adopted to estimate peal flows in the drainage systems have been
based on earlier studies carried out for the Belize Citv project. Coefficients adopted for
the various surface types of land use covered in the towns are:
-  Intensively developed commercial areas                   0.5
*  Residential areas with gardens                           0.3
*  Sparsely/undeveloped areas within the town               0.2
*  Undeveloped rural areas                                  0.05 to 0.1
4.3.4               Design Method
The drainage improvement works were sized to evacuate the peak design discharge
through the towns. Hvdraulic calculations to estimate flows were based on Manning's
formula. A freeboard allowance of a minirnum of 150 mm has been allowed above the
calculated hvdraulic profile to determine the final design cross section required. Values
of Manning's 'n' adopted for the design are:
*  Earth channels                    0.045
*  Concrete lined channels           0.025
For drains that are unaffected by backwater effects, normal depth design criteria were
adopted. For those drains that are effected by downstream controls, such as tidal
variations, backwater analysis was undertaken to determine the design hydraulic profile.
4.4                  Generic Outline of the Proposed Schemes
4.4.1               Drcans and Canals
Typical cross sections for lined drains are shown in Figures 4.1 and 4.2 and unlined
drains are shown in Figure 4.3.
Doc-oC Fr O Don Mr 1999   30



The lined drains will, for the most part, consist of a reinforced concrete floor with
block cemented wals. Weep holes, backfilled with coarse material, will be located at
intervals along the drain to allow groundwater to seep into the drain. 'herever
possible the dramn gradient will be sufficient to permit flow and minimise
sedimentation. The larger, open lIned drains, will be braced with reinforced concrete
struts at intervals. One dramn, Havana Creek in Dangriga, wil be cast in reinforced
concrete, as it is too large to build using blockwork. Where drains are to be covered,
the cover wil be made of a series of reinforced concrete slabs to permit ready access
for cleaning.
The unlined drains will be excavated to form a trapezoidal cross section with 1:2 side
slopes.
4.4.2                 ControlStructlrrs
In Dangriga, several of the existing canals will be linked to Stann Creek to facilitate
tidal flushing (see Section 10). To protect the area drained by the canals from flooding
during high water in Stann Creek, the canal mouths will be fitted with a manual
penstock which can be closed in the event of a flood in Stann Creek, to prevent
flooding along the canals.
4.4.3                 Ouf'als
Several new outfalls will be constructed under this project, the design of which is
specific to position. Figure 4.4 shows examples of an outfal design in San Ignacio. The
outfalls are generally constructed from blockwork and gabions. A number of outfall
locations will also be improved through local dredging.
4.4.4                 CompIemenzay Works
A number of activities will be undertaken in order to assist the authorities in the
further development and local development of the drainage networks in the town. It is
proposed that a sum of money be allocated during the construction phase for
undertaking local improvements/replacement works to the drainage systems such as
culvert renewals or local system development.
D-N.oC RrT O D,t M.7 i995    31



4.5                  Construction
4.5.1               Project Phasing and Constnrcaon Programme
The drainage subprolects identified under this studv have been prioritised and grouped
into three construction phases. The phasing of individual sub-projects are identified
and illustrated ir. Sections 6 - il on a town bv town basis.
A preliminary construction programme is presented in Figure 4.5. At present, it is
expected that invitations to tender for the contracts will be issued in early March, with
a view to comrnence construction of Phase I at the beginning ofJune.
The programme also illustrates a first approximation of the phasing of works within
each town. The actual phasing will depend on how the contracts are awarded, and on
the preferred operating programmne of the contractor(s).
Certain works need to be limnited to the dry season, due to the difficulties of working
on soil when it is very wet or waterlogged. This particularly applies to land clearance
and canal excavations. Other works could be constructed or finished off during the
wet season.
4.5.2                Przn1czpk Construc.tton Actuitzes
(a)    Drains and Canals
The principal activities associated with the construction of drains and canals comprise
the following
*   vegetation removal and land clearance
*   excavation of new and existing drains
*   temporary diversion of water in drains
*   construction of base, sides and top of drain as appropriate (depends on whether
drain is unlined, lined, covered etc)
*   backfilling behind the drain walls
*   completion works.
Channel excavation will be carried out using plant such as backactors. Approximately
30 to 50 m length of channel will be dug at any one time and so it is estimated that
D. N. Q R- G Da..: My 1999   32



local disturbance should be lumIted to 2-3 weeks at anv one location. Concrete is likely
to be brought onto site in concrete rnixers.
Any water in existing channels will have to be diverted. This could be done by
sectioning off half the channel once it have been excavated, and working in the dry
section. Alternatively the flow could be pumped through tubes around the section
under construction. In either way, the drainage water would be confined, and would
not be al]owed to drain onto surrounding land.
For the blockwork drains, it is likelv that the concrete base will be laid first, followed
by the construction of the blockwork walls. Each iength would be constructed in two
halves, to allow diversion of flow as described above. One of the drains proposed in
Dangriga will have to be cast in concrete, as it is too large to be constructed using
blockwork. In this case, the base and walls could be cast in situ, or be precast and lifted
into position.
The lower section of Lakeland Canal in Dangriga will incorporate embankrnents on
either side to prevent flooding. Here a large working; width, up to 30 m, will have to be
cleared through mangroves. Sediment excavated from the channel would probably be
too wet to reuse inmnediately in the formation of the embankments. However, within
the project area, there is potential for reusing material excavated elsewhere in the
project for the construction of the embankments.
The construction materials required will include excavated material, concrete,
blockwork and reinforcement material. Estimates of quantities required are provided in
Appendix E.
(b)    Control Structures
The penstocks will be bolted or fixed onto the mouths of the drains discharging into
Stann Creek in Dangriga. These 'gates' will be lifted into place using heavy lifting
equipment such as a crane. There is unlikely to be any waste material produced as a
result of this activitv.
Doc N.CR,, O D.r Me 1999   33
F \We\B:n-r=rs- mer\poer rbp\Rpr\Fr,No.o



(c)    Outfalls
The outfalls works will involve similar construction activities and materials as the drain
and channel works described above. In addition, gabions will be used to create the
outfall structures. It is likely that empty wire baskets and crushed stone will be
transported to site on lorries and the gabions will then be filed on site.
(d)    Complementarv Works
Anv complimentary works are likely to comprise of a combination of the activities and
materials described in section (a) to (c) above.
4.;.3              Matenals, Reuse and Wastes
It will be necessary to bring construction materials to the site. The quantitv of materials
required has been estimated and is presented in Appendix E.
The contractor will have discretion in sourcing materials. Sand and aggregate for
mixing concrete, fill, and crushed rock for filling the gabions will be sourced within
Belize. Crushed rock and aggregate may be obtained from a number of quarries, for
example, the San Antonio quarry (Corozal and Orange Walk) or Rockviale quarry (San
Ignacio, Santa Elena, and Benque). Screened, graded river gravels can also be used and
sourced from several licensed quarries for example Mile 38 on the Westem Highway.
The contractor could decide to open a borrow pit to win material, but they would have
to obtain a licence from the Minerals Department (Ministry of Environment).
Other materials will have to be imported. For example, cement is imported from
Mexico and Honduras. Reinforcement may be sourced from Mexico while gabion
baskets may be imported from the United Stares or Guatemala. Precast concrete
elements may need to be imported from elsewhere in Central America (there are no
known precasting yards producing such elements in Belize). Altematively the
contractor may elect to set up precasting facilities, as well as a concrete batching plant,
on site.
In some locations, particularly in Dangriga and Punta Gorda, it will be necessary to
clear woodland, including mangroves. The contractor will have to obtain a licence to
clear mangroves, as well as a permit if it is intended to use the timber commercially
D., No C F-t C D.X: Mey 19919  34                                                                           ;



(see Section 3). The Department of Forestry may stipulate conditions about the
clearance of forested areas on the licences and permits. Anv unused timber, or brush,
should be disposed of to the Municipal Waste disposal site, and not be bumt on, or
near to the construction sites.
During excavation of the drains, both uncontaminated and contaminated spoil will
become available. The uncontaminated spoil is likely to warrant some local demand for
plot raising and local landfilling. W'herever possible, this material should be reused in a
controlled manner, so that it does not affect the drainage or environrmental quality of
the receiving site. It should be possible to stipulate, for example, that the spoil can onl
be disposed of on school grounds, plaving fields, and existing recreational amenity
space.
It is likely that spoil removed from drains in areas where sanitarv arrangements are
dubious is contarinated by wastewater and contamns bacteria and other pathogens
which are hazardous to health. It is highly recomnmended that this contaminated
material be disposed of in a controlled manner at the local waste disposal sites. This
procedure may require some special arrangements to ensure that any special disposal
requirements are implemented. In Dangriga, in particular, many of the drains contain
solid waste. It would not be practicable to separate the solid waste and spoil, so all the
material should be disposed of to the Municipal waste disposal site.
v .5.4               Con.rtniction Traffic
Construction traffic will consist of:
*   plant used and parked on site during construction eg excavators, rollers, scrapers,
a small crane for lifting, and dump trucks
*   heavy goods vehicles (IGVs) delivering and removing materials eg blocks,
cement, and spoil
*   low loaders bringing plant on and off site
*   light vehicles for transporting the workforce on and off site.
Most vehicles movements on public roads will be associated with the delivery of
materials and removal of excess spoil from the new drains and canals. Estimates of
vehicle movements are provided in Appendix E, and the impact of construction traffic
on other road traffic and residents is discussed in Sections 6 - 11.
Do No C RO D- M-F 1999   35
F \EV XEomltt #se.! ls dbw lpt\F;Nv.o



The delivery and removal of construction plant would probably occur within a short
period, sav two to three weeks, at the beginning and end of the construction period.
Transport for personnel may consist of a relatively small number of movements of
light vehicles and buses at the beginning and end of the dav.
Construction Workforce
The type of construction works proposed are considered to be within the capabilites
of Belize contracting firms.
Issues conceming the employment and accommodation of the workforce are at the
discretion of the contractor. The workforce will consist of skilled and unskilled
labourers. The average split in Belizean construction companies is 20:80 skilled versus
unskilled. While the skilled labour may be drawn from other towns, notably Belize
City, some of the unskilled labourers may be employed within each of the studv towns.
The size of the workforce will vary during the construction programme, depending on
the amount of on-going activity.
There may be a need to provide one or more site compounds in each town during the
period of construction, especiallv where more than one contractor has won contracts,
or where there are a large number of contracts being undertaken simultaneously. The
site would have to be supplied with offices, services (power, water, sanitation),
restaurant, and storage for plant and materials. It may be necessary to provide some
overnight accommodation for workers on some of the larger projects. However, it is
not uncommon for construction workers to live at some distance from the site and use
either public transport or transportation provided by the construction company.
$. j.6               Superzision of Constructzon
It is understood that the MoW wishes to award the contracts to Belizean construction
companies. In order to do this successfully, individual contracts will have to be linmited
in size, sav between 0.8-1.2MBz4. At present it is not known how the contracts will be
packaged. However it is possible that two or more contractors will be working in
Corozal or Dangriga, where there are the largest number of schemes, vwith perhaps
only one contractor working in one of the smaller towns.
DocNo. R O D.. Ma 1995   36
F W\ :totr.AmXlee\hu\D:tFz^Nr o



The MoW intends to appoint a Supervising Engineer, to be responsible for ensuring
that the contractors build the schemes to the design specifications and in accordance
with the terms of the contract agreements. Again at this stage it is not possible to
comnment in detail on the staffing arrangements of the Supervising Engineer, but it is
likely that the team will consist of a Project Manager, and several full time staff
responsible for overseeing the works in one or more towns.
4.6                  Operation and Maintenance
The main post-construction activities should consist of:
*   checking the newly formed lined drains for subsidence and structural weaknesses
during and immediately following construction
*   cutting vegetation along the unlined canals at least twice a year (once before the
rainv season)
*   inspection and clearance of drains and culverts at least twice a vear (once before
the rainy season)
*   dredging of outfalls to keep channels clear to be undertaken approximately once
every five years or as necessaryv
*   inspection of gated structures on a monthly basis
The Supervising Engineer will be responsible for checking drains as they are built.
Once constructed, the Town Boards will be responsible for maintaining the drains.
Do-N.oO R, C D.. Mayi7    37



'*1 II



5                   Approach to the EIA
5.1                 Overview
The approach taken to evaluate the environmental impacts of the proposed drainage
sub-projects in each of the study towns has been based on the following steps:
*   assessment of the existing environmental conditions in the towns, with particular
references to 'sensitive' sites within the catchments of the drainage proposals
*   review of the drainage proposals for each town
-   identification and evaluation of the potential impacts of the drainage proposals
*   elaboration of a mitigation plan to address the adverse impacts
-   identification of institutional weaknesses affecting implementation of the
mitigation plan, and
*   preparation of an environmental management plan to ensure that the proposals
are implemented adequately.
The following sections (6-11) present the results of the EIA for each town. The
sections are subdivided to provide a description of the existing conditions, a summary
of the engineering proposals, and an evaluation of the impacts. Section 12 describes
the proposed rnitigation plan which considers generic measures to be adopted as well
as specific issues to be developed for each town. Section 13 discusses the institutional
issues which may affect the success of the scheme and Section 14 presen'ts the
environmental management plan.
5.2                  Potential Environmental Impacts due to Drainage Works
Construction and maintenance activities can impact upon the physical, biological and
human environmental in a variety of ways. These are summarised in Tables 5.1 and 5.2.
It is evident that given natural factors such as the clirnate and terrain, together with
anthropogenic factors, such as population settlement in low-lying areas and inadequate
orovision for urban expansion, flooding is a common problem for people in the study
towns. Given the nature of the environmental conditions in Belize and the proposals
for drainage improvements, a number of key issues need to be addressed in the EIA, in
particular:
DocNo O R-  Date My 1999   38
F \W, \Eneo,,,,,ci "Se:thlXh J  eoc -s_o.o



*   Disturbance to residents due to land-take, restricted access, dust, noise etc
*   Disturbance to existing road traffic due to temporary or partial road closures, and
haulage traffic
*   The cumulative impacts on people and traffic resulting from prograrnrming
several works contemporaneously
*   Health and safety issues for the workforce associated with contact with polluted
drainage waters and disposal of contarminated sediments
*   Reuse of uncontaminated sediments, for example for land raising
*   Discovery of, and damage to, archaeological artefacts or structures during
excavation works
*   Loss of, or damage to, instrearn and surrounding flora and fauna and stream
morphology due to channel enlargement and straightening
*    Changes in water quality around outfalls due to increased conveyance of urban
drains and indirect impacts on aquatic habitats and species.
5.3                  Evaluaton of the Environmental Impacts
The potential environmental impacts which may occur dunng and following
construction of the drainage proposals have been identified and evaluated using the
following qualitative attributes:
* type: beneficial or adverse (+ or -)
*  magnitude: not applicable (NA), not significant (NS), low (L), moderate (M) or
highb
* direct or indirect
*   duration: temporary (I) or permanent (P)
*  avoidable or unavoidable
*   reversible or irreversible.
The results are summarised in Environmental Impact Matrices and are described in the
accompanying text.
Doc. No 0 RF O 1-: M y 1999   39
F \W,\B,E,,,on,,,.,,  A   n,,,\P ,lec\i~b,.\R*po,i\Fj,,al_N,v doe



Table 5.1 Potential impacts of construction activities on the environment
~~~~~~~~~I_                                                                           I  
E~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~ZI                            > z            >.                     
E                    J                    ce 'ei Wv, O ;i;C
[    Clance|o-                           =  C |-  -
0    Cy      ~        
0                           C    C,C
Land Clearance  -~ ~ ~ ~~~~U 
Excavation of drains/canals    -     -     --   -+ -_  _                                    _ 
_  _                                                ____
Cementing activitv           -                                     - _-  - 
Preparation of Gabions                                                +                                 .
Installation of gated structures   _                               -  +        _
Storage of material
Machiner; activitv                                                     +       _  
Construction traffic                        - |   -  -
Site compounds                _          _
Workforce presence
Dredging at outfalls          _                  _        _            +       _       _ _      _ 
D- oN  F R- O D-t MA 1999   40
F \WSt\ En-.--wcAusse:P        *bp\tot\Fn_   t.o



On0
I 
i 
g _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~Air Quality                                                Air Quality t
T                           _               I .~~~~~~~~~~~and 'I ake            Landl 
0  n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D                               +  _  _ _  _ ~~~~~+Land Decvlopmciit lPotential     ______________
Zl__                                                       Soil Lrosionl                      Soils and Geolog 
ty  y        0
a  +  _  _  _ _  Water Quality                      Drainagel
+  _H  _[ood Risk                                                            t
_  _  _     _  'Terrestrial Ecology             Ecology3
LMarine and Coastal Environfneto
+ _  ,,,0
±           Dis~~~WteQuralceto ReDens1rainag Enirnmn
+               Visual Impact
0
_+  +  +  +  Employment and Local Economy 
_  _  ,  ,  ,  Noise 
+  _     __Urban Floodinig                          Flooding
+  _H   ;ood Damage___________
H Dealtur &  Safety ReConstruction  Environmental
_  _  _  _ _Workforce                           Health
EmmIetealth and Saetd - Resinenyts
+  ____Disease Vector I labitats
WArchaology                            Archaeology



6                    Corozal
6.1                  Existng Conditons
6.1.7                Location and Seinzg
Corozal is the most northerly of the six towns, located in the district with the same
name, on the western shores of Chetumal Bay (Figure 5.1). It is situated off the
Northern HIghway, close to the border with Mexico. The town is surrounded by
agricultural fields, mostly of sugar cane, although some fragments of natural vegetation
remain. The population of Corozal is about 8,085 (1998).
6.7.2                Coa-tal and Manne Endrnnmen
Chetumal Bay, is a semi-enclosed bay partiallv separated from the Caribbean Sea by the
southward extension of the Yucatan peninsula and Ambergris Cav (Figure 1.1). The
Bar is relatively shallow and there is likelv to be lim*ited flushing of waters with the
Caribbean Sea. While tidal variations in the bay are small, water levels are sensitive to
waves induced by north easterlv and easterly winds. The wind induced waves also
reduce the amenity value of anchorage and sailing off Corozal.
The bar is thought to be contaminated with pollutants from settlements in Mexico,
and to a lesser extent from wastewater seepage from Corozal itself, although there are
no water quality data to verify this situation (pers. comm. Coastal Zone Management
Authority). Algal growth occurs along some sections of the shoreline which may be
linked to nutrient enrichment from wastewater seepage.
The sea front along Corozal is characterised by a series of headlands and bays eroded
from the limestone cap rock layer. Coastal protection works have been built along
several sections of the sea front to reduce erosion and flooding. These features present
a hard edge to the seafront, with little in the way of beaches.
Coastal erosion processes appear to be relatively slow, given the hard substrate at the
water's edge and low energy environment. Historical photographs suggest that coastal
erosion tends to occur episodically in response to large magnitude events such as
Hurricane Janet.
DocNo C Rev 0 D,. Mo 1995   42
F VW. \:r o,o,,e v        ,\ po,,\F_No. doe



It is understood that there are no areas of coral or seagrass beds in Chetumal Bay
where the water is relatively turbid. The fisheries are also thought to be poor, and local
fisherman are believed to fish further south off the Belizean coast (pers. comm.
CZmA).
6.1.3               Topography and Geology
The old part of Corozal between the sea front and 7th Avenue is flat and low Iying
(Figure 7.2). The town has extended along Santa Rita Road to the north west nrsing to
higher ground at Santa Rita. A shallow, west-east trending ridge is also located
between College Road and San Andres Road on the west side of town in the William
Hall area. To the north of the town a low lying depression lies between Skeleton
Town, the White Cocal residential area and the Recalde Stadium.
The towr, is located in an area of karst limestone which controls surface and
subsurface drainage.
6.1.4               Drainage
T'he town is drained by two magoon drains which originate in the low lying depression
in the Skeleton Town-White Cocal area. The depression receives runoff from the
surrounding land and is naturally swampy.
T-he South West Magoon Drain flows from Skeleton Town in a southerly direction to a
sea outfall located at the south westem end of the town near the abattoir. The final 750
to 800 m length of this drain is spring fed and has a good flow of clean water even
during the drier months of the year. A tributary drain flows south west along the north
westem edge of the town, joining the main drain near 8th Avenue.
The North East Magoon Drain flows in an easterly direction to a sea outfall at the
north-eastern end of the town some 150 m to the north of the govemment Rest
House. This drain crosses the karstic limestone which outcrops in the area, and is
unusual in having near vertical eroded banks with the flow disappearing into sink holes
along the stream bed.
The central and older parts of the town are drained by several small drains that flow in
a south easterly direction to individual sea outfalls.
Doc-NoO R.-  D-, May 1999   43
FA\W.\E-.-WnlAnn\Y!tbupRpr\Fn_c.D



During September 1999, a limited number of water samples were taken from strategic
points in the drainage channels in order to make preliminary assessments of the water
quality in the drains. The results are given in Table 6.1 below.
Table 6.1       Physico-chemical water quality results - Corozal
Parameter                      }         Sampling Locations
pI                                   7.0 |     7.2)     70       7.
Temperature (oC)                    29.5      30.3     28.7     29.1
Conducti'irv (m)               |              -           0       -6
Conductvitv (mS/ccm)                2.65      2.71     2.65     2.22
|Amnmonia (mg/l)                1      X                            - .
1.      North East Magoon Drain - taken from 4th Avenue culvert
2.       North East Magoon Drain - adjacent to 1st Avenue by sea outfall
3.       South West Magoon Drain - adjacent to San Andres Road
4.       South West Magoon Drain - adjacent to sea outfall
- Unable to measure due to precipitation of salts due to salinity
The PHB also collected water samples from four locations on the magoon drains and
analysed them for faecal coliforms. The results are given in Table 6.2 below.
Table 6.2       Bacteriological quality of drainage water - Corozal
Location  Description of Site                       Faecal
No.                                                 coliforms/lOOml
1         North East Mlagoon Drain. 3rd Street                   800
North. Bv Crisis restaurant near outfall.
2          North East Magoon Dram. 8th Street                    400
North. By Eulogio Pott
3          South West Magoon Drain. Santa Rita Road.             100
By Chacon restaurant
4          South West Magoon Drain. 7th Avenue.                  600
South end near outfall.
Doc N.O RF: C D.. M.y 1999   44
F \A            t   - h\,N  tF \N--



The water in the drains was found to be saline and contain appreciable concentrations
of faecal coliforms suggesting contamination by wastewater. As a guide to
bacteriological standards to protect human health, the European Commission Bathing
Water Directve (76/160/EEC) sets a mandatory standard of 2000 faecal
coiforms/100 rml, and a guide value of 100 faecal coliforms/ 100 ml.
6.1.5               Temstnal Evology
Within Corozal itself there is little natural ecology due to the built up nature of the
town. Much of the surrounding area has been cleared for agricultural production,
notably for sugar cane, and closer to town for urban development.
Where areas of natural vegetation exist, for example in Skeleton Town, the habitat is
seasonal swamp forest of the Northem Belize: Bullet Tree-logwood variant. This
habitat is described further in Appendix B. The ecological survey did not identify any
rare habitats or species.
6.1.6               Cultural Hentaqge
The archaeological site at Santa Rita dates back to 2000 BC, making it one of the
earliest settlements in the Maya area. The settlement flourished during the Classic
Period between 300 BC and 300 AD when a large number of stone structures were
built. Occupation of the site continued into the Post-classic and Colonial Period. A
description of the site is given in Appendix C.
The modem town of Corozal was founded upon the archaeological site of Santa Rita
towards the rniddle of the last century. With the founding and subsequent growth of
Corozal, a large part of the archaeological site was destroyed. Stones from the
archaeological sites were reused in new buildings and Corozal gradually spread over the
site of the old Maya ruins.
Today, the relatively small archaeological site of Santa Rita, which is open to the
public, lies to the north west of Corozal. However, it is still possible to observe Maya
mounds of considerable size in various parts of the town. Archaeological excavation
and construction works have also shown that the remains of archaeological structures
and artefacts can be found in many parts of the town.
-- N.-C) F-  0 D..~ Mr                                                                 J 1-
DOc No O R.rv,C Dat.Me 1~995 4



6. .7               Urban EnLironmenz and Expansion
Corozal was hit by Hurricane Janet in 1955 and has since been almost completely
rebuilt. The older parts of the town occupy a frontage of about 2 km along Corozal
Bav and extend inland to 7th Avenue, which is the main road through the town. The
town has expanded along the main road which continues as Santa Rita Road. New
development areas are also located to the north east of the Santa Rita Road in the
Skeleton Town area, despite its unsuitability as a swampy area prone to flooding, and
to the west of the town centre in the William Hall area between College Road and San
Andres Road.
6.1.8               EnzimnmentalHeakh
In 1998 there were 10 reported cases of malaria in Corozal District, however, it is not
known how many of these were cases within the town itself. No cases of dengue fever
were reported. Vector control is undertaken by a unit stationed in Corozal Town. They
undertake ULV spraying periodically using Melathion. The ULV spraying programme
usually takes 2 full days to complete in Corozal, provided there is no interruption by
rain. Inspectors also undertake household inspections to destroy non essential water
containers and treat essential water containers with ABATE to control Aedes egVpti
This prograrnme takes about three and a half months to complete each cycle of visits.
No information was available about the spatial pattem of malaria cases nor vector
breeding sites. However, areas of town such as College Road and Skeleton Town,
which are inundated more frequently than others, are considered by the local PHI to
have a larger problem with mosquitoes.
62                  Proposed Programme of Works
The schedule of works proposed for Corozal are summartised in Table 6.3 and located
on Figure 6.2. Further details of the engineering design are provided in the Engineering
Report.
D-r N. C Rs- O D-t Me 19   46



Table 6.3       Scbedule of Works for Corozal
Culvert Requirements
Description of Work
Phase I
North East Magoon Drain - Renovate existing drain.            8 No. road crossings
Ch 0-187 - Clean out existing unlined trapezoidal open drain
Ch 187-474 - Bed width 2 m
Ch 474-600 - Bed width 3 m
Ch 600-1048 - Bed width 4 m
North East Magoon Drain Extension - Renovate existing drain   1 No. road crossings
Unlined trapezoidal open drain 170 in long
Bed width 2 m ___
South West Magoon Drain - Renovate existing drain             7 No. culvert crossings
Ch 0-988 - Unlined trapezoidal open drain with 3 m bed width
Ch 988-1188 - Lined concrete open drain
Ch1188-1245 - Unlined trapezoidal open drain
Total drain length - 1245 m
South West Magoon Drain Extension - Renovate existing drain   2 No. culvert crossings
Unlined trapezoidal open drain 771m long
Bed width 3 m
Dredge the outfalls
Phase II
College Road Drain - New road drains                           8 No. road crossings
Lined blockwork covered drain along both sides of the road
2* 1089 m long (2178 m in total)
Bed width 0 8 - 1.5 m.
Phase III
San Andres Road Drain - New road drain                         No culvert crossings as
Lined blockwork covered drain 846 m long                       covered blockwork drain.
Bed width 0.8 - 1.5 m                                          continues at road and side
street drains
Santa Rita Road Drain - New road dram                          No culvert crossings as
Ch 0-1600 - Small lined blockwork covered side drain along each side   covered blockwork drain
of the street                                                  continues at road and side
2*1600 m long (3200 m in total)                                street drains
3rd Street North Drain - Renovate existing drain               No culvert crossings as
Lined blockwork covered drain 341m long                        covered blockwork drain
Width 1.0 - 1.5 m                                              continues at road and side
street drains
Do No. O R O D.a> My 1999   47
F\Wo\HEw-uonrl 



6.3                  Environmeptal Impacts of the Proposed Programme
6.3. 1               Otrvne;
The potential environmental impacts associated with the overall programme are
summarised in Table 6.4. This is followed by a discussion of specific issues for the
proposed phasing of works.
The main adverse impact of the proposals in Corozal relates to the potential damage to
or loss of archaeological remains and artefacts. While much of the original Maya
settlement has been destroyed during urbanisation in modern times, excavations below
0.3 m still yield archaeological artefacts and evidence of structures. Consequendy the
excavation of drains is likelv to cut across structural features and unearth artefacts.
Loss of, or damage to, archaeological remains is a high, adverse, permanent and
irreversible impact. The impact can be avoided to some extent through trial excavation
and salvage works, and there is scope for positive benefits through increasing scientific
knowledge about the archaeological record.
There are a number of adverse impacts related to construction nu:sance. Most of the
proposed drainage works are located close to residential properties. The improvement
works are likely to cause various nuisances to residents such as noise, dust, and
restrictions on access. These impacts are temporary, localised, and generally low
magnitude, although there are several locations where the works will be very close to
residential properties, and nuisance impacts could be greater. Works at any one site
may be limited to a few weeks, although the overall construction programme is likely
to extend over 12 months.
The proposals to improve or excavate several road drains would generally have low
and temporary impacts on existing traffic as these roads are wide enough to keep them
open to traffic during construction of the drains. Access to the magoon drains is more
difficult, and may require temporary accesses across private land during construction.
The main access route for delivering material and disposing of wastes will be the
Northem Highway and Santa Rita Road. These roads are of a sufficient standard to
carry HGVs. Residential development extends along both roads. However, the
potential impacts on residents and other road users from construction traffic is
expected to be low to moderate magnitude and temporary.
Doc N. c Rt- C D,-. My 199S   48
F \WV,\F- --X1tIjwsrca\tlc\t>r\    or\_o.o



Overall, the project is expected to require some 4,600m3 of concrete (cement, sand and
aggregate), 98,000 block-work bnrcks, and about 600t of reinforcement. There are a
number of licensed quarries in Northem Belize. The largest is San Antonio quarry,
which could provide aggregate. The haulage route from this quarrv to Corozal could
pass through two or three villages and the northern end of Orange Walk town before
accessing the Northem Highway, depending on the route selected. It is known that
some of the sites currently being quarried in Northern Belize are also Maya sites. Maya
often chose high outcrops for their settlements, and such sites mav also provide good
quarry material. Other materials would be imported, and be transferred to Corozal via
the Northern Highway.
An estimated 20,424 m3 of excavated matenral and 5000m3 of dredged material wiL
need to be disposed of over the whole duration of the proposed schemes. About a
quarter of this material will be excavated from new drains and is likely to be relativelv
uncontaminated. The remainder may contain some solid waste and organic matter, and
may be contaminated with wastewater seepage. Material from new excavations could
be reused for land raising, provided that the process is controlled to ensure that it does
not affect flooding and drainage in neighbouring plots. Spoil from existing drains could
be disposed of to the Municipal waste disposal site, and used, for example, to spread
over putrescible or septage waste.
The construction of the sub-projects will provide moderate benefits to the local
economy through the appointment of Belizean construction companies, and scope for
local employment and provision of services. Construction costs are estimated at
6.7Bz$M for all the sub-projects, with 1.3Bz$M in Phase I. Post-construction
maintenance requirements will be of a similar magnitude to existing activities, and is
unlikely to result in additional economic benefits or impacts on the environment.
The Phase I proposals will lead to a reduction of flooding along the alignment of the
existing magoons which pass through relatively dense residential development The
proposals for Phases II and III will provide relief from flooding along several major
roads in the longer term. The reduction in flooding may have long term beneficial
irnpacts on land values and reduced flooding damage.
Doc No 0 Rv: 0 D..: Mey 9    49



The proposals will not relieve flooding in the area known as Skeleton Town where
residential development is encroaching into the natural swamp. This area is not
suitable for housing and residential development should be discouraged.
The proposed works are unlikely to have any significant impacts on soil erosion,
coastal configuration or beach stability, hvdrologv and drainage, terrestrial and aquatic
flora and fauna, and disease vector habitats or vector control requirements.
6.32                 PhaseI WorLr
Improvements to the magoon drains may have potential impacts upon the
archaeological record, given the extent of the ancient Santa Rita site- Based on previous
archaeological excavations, this is most likely to occur at the southern end of the SW
magoon (see Appendix C, Figure 5'.
Both magoon drains flow, through residential areas. The SW magoon generally flows
across developed blocks, between houses. There is vehicle access to the magoon and
its extension at several locations, but not along them. Construction materials will have
to be unloaded onto smaller vehicles or carried along the banks of the drains to the
construction site. This would result in some nuisance to nearby residents.
The NE Magoon, on the other hand, is more easily accessible as it flows along roads
for most of its length. In the upper half of the magoon drain, these roads are narrow,
often unmetalled, residential roads where the. working width for construction will be
constrained. Access to the lower half, below 4th Avenue is much easier.
Dredging to the outfalls of both magoons would result in localised increased turbidity,
but this is not expected to be significant, either in terms of water quality or marine
ecology.
6.3.3                Phase II Works
The Phase II Works at present consist of the construction of the College Road Drain.
The main adverse impact of the construction of this sub-project is the potential impact
on the archaeological record. College Road crosses an area of known archaeological
remains, identified by archaeologists as squares 10, 11, and 12 (See Appendix C, Figure
5).
oNo O - CO Da- MM 1995   50
F \WJ\Bron       x



The potential nuisance impacts from constructing the College Road Drains should be
low magnitude and temporary. There is good access to College Road from Santa Rita
Road and the coast road for construction traffic. The number of constuction vehicies
delivering materials and carrving away wastes is estimated to be small, about 7 per day
or one an hour. This increase in the volume of road traffic is unlikely to increase
significantly noise or severance for residents along haulage routes. It should be possible
to keep College Road open during works.
College Road runs through a residential area leading to a college at the westem end of
the road. The Works site may present a potential hazard to students walking along the
road and to residents accessing their property. The houses along CoLege Road tend to
be set back from the road which would provide some separation between the
construction site and houses.
The proposals to cover the College Road Drain will improve safety for pedestrians bv
providing a walkway.
63j.4               Phase III Works
The Phase III Works consist of three proposed schemes, each in a different part of
Corozal.
The construction of Santa Rita Road Drain and San Andres Road Drain are most likely
to affect archaeological remains, as both pass through known areas of settlement (See
Appendix C, Figure 5). However, the risk of affecting archaeological remains near the
coast, inc[onstructing the 3rd Street North Drain may be lower.
Construction nuisances are again expected to be low magnitude and temporarv. There
is good access to both the Santa Rita Road and San Andres Road. Access to 3rd Street
North is more comprised, as construction traffic would have to pass through the town,
probablv via the coastal road. The cumulative impact on construction traffic would
result in an estimated 23 HGVs per day, or about 3 vehicles per hour, assuming all
three scheme were built at the same time.
Santa Rita Road is a wide dual two lane road which is sufficiendy wide to
accommodate the construction works and two-way traffic. San Andres Road is a dual,
single lane road. It should be possible to maintain access along the road during
3ccNoC Rc- C Date My1999   51                                                                         r



construction, although there may be a need for traffic control measures 3rd Street
North is located close to the town centre. Again, it should be possible to maintain
access, however if there is a need to close the road, there should be little disruption to
traffic as the road svstem in this part of town is built around a grid system  allowing
multi options for routes.
The proposals to cover the road drains will improve safetr for pedestrians by providing
a walkwav.
The improvements to 3rd Street North Drain will result in a significant change in
outfall conditions. At present, flow disappears underground before reaching the sea.
The introduction of a covered, lined drain wilJ ensure direct marine discharge. There
are no data on the presence of benthic habitats in the Corozal area, nor are there any
existing or proposed marine protected areas closer than 15 kms to the town.
Nonetheless the proposed works are considered not to have a significant impact on the
coastal area at this location.
Table 6.4            Summary of the Evaluation of Potential Environmental
Impacts
,meter        Impact                                                  Evaluation of the Potential Impacts
Type   i Magnitude   Direct -   Duration    Avoidable   lrreeersibie
or-)                Indirect
Quahltv       Elevated levels of dust in the aur dunng           L           D           T           No            No
construction
d             Land-take dunng construction                                    D          p           No            Yes
Improve development potentiai asnd land            L           D          P           NA            NA
values after constructson
sand          Quarrnes                                            L           D          T            No           Yes
Sol! erosion dunng construction                    L           D          T            No           Yes
inage         Alter the planform of natural or scm>-  NA
natural streams dunng construction
Bank erosion during construction of    NA
usnlined channels and outfalis
Change water qualiry due to accidental  NS
lspillages dunng cDnstruction
DocNc C R-v O D-t Ma 199t  52



eter         Impact                                                          Evaluation of the Potential Impacts
Typc      Magnitude    Direct -    Duration        Avoidable    irreversible
(+ or-)                  Indiret
Increase flood nsk in natural drainage     NS
Induce channel change after                NA
constructior_
trial        Loss of in-stream  flora and fauna dunng    NS
construction
Loss of floodplain flora                   NA
Disturbance to wildlife dunng              NS
construction
Indirect effects of poor water qualty     NS
from construction activities
indirect eftects from changes in flow      NS
regume, channel stability or watter quality
c and         Effects on cntical habitats (reefs,         NS
d I           seagrasses, mangroves)
nnment
Change in ner,shore water quality           NS
Dredging impacts on beach stability         NS
Impacts on fishenes                         NS
Disturbance to residents dunng                          L-M            D                        Partly            No
rnment       construction
Disruption to traffic dunng construction     -          L-M            D            T            Partly          No
Visual Impact                                             L            D            P             No             Yes
Employvnent and the local economy                        M             D                          No             Yes
Drainage    Reduce urban flooding                                     L-Ni          D             P
Reduce flood damage to property                         L-M            D            P             Yes            Yes
mnmental      Health and safety of constucton                           L            D             T            Yes             No
h             workforce
Health and safety of residents and                        L            D            7             Yes             No
pedestrians during constructon
Reduce disease vector habitats              NS
ral           Loss of or danage to archaeological                       H             D            P             No             Yes
age           remains dunng excavation
Noc.ioO Re, 0 D.t, SA,,1999   53
F\We\Eevuoeie.i   aeser \Pia,esn\5sbsap\Repeii\Fssa_Ns doc



7                   Orange Walk
7.1                 Existing Conditions
7.l .1              Locaiorn and Setang
Orange Walk is located in northem Belize, in the district bearing the same name. It
lies some 70 km north west of Belize City, on the Northern Highwav, the principal
route from Belize Citv towards Corozal and the border with Mexico. The town is
situated on the westem bank of the New River (Figure 7.1). Orange Walk has a
population of about 15,000 (1998 estimate).
7.1l2               Toppography
The topography in and around Orange Walk is low-lying and subdued at an elevation
of about 10-15 masl. The town is located on slightly higher land at about 15 masl, and
the land falls away eastwards, steeply in places, to the New River and its floodplain
which lies at about 2.0-2.2 masl. The New River is probably located at the western
edge of its floodplain in the study area, and the westem bank of the river is frequently
defined bv low river cliffs.
7.7.3               Drainaqge
T1he New River flows from south to north past Orange Walk, following a single
meandering course of moderate to high sinuosity. During the dry season the river is
confined to its channel with a discharge of about 20 cumecs. During the wet season,
the discharge rises to about 150 cumecs, and the New River overbanks onto its
floodplain for several weeks during the height of the wet season.
There are two notable swamp areas on the westem side of town to the south of the
San Antonio Road (Figure 7.2). The one closest to town is a small depression, with no
natural outlet. The outer swamp area seems to be connected to a small stream which
flows northwards on the west side of Orange Walk, discharging to the New River
downstream of the town. The hvdrology of this stream is not documented, but it is
believed that poor conveyance, resulting from the raising of the San Lorenzo Road
which crosses its path, contributes to flooding in newly developed areas to the north
west and west side of town.
Doc N. C F> C D,,, 199S    54



The older parts of Orange Walk, to the east side of the Northern Highwa , drain
directly to the New River. The area on the west side of the Northern Highway and
south of Cinderella Street drain into the inner swamp. The residential areas to the west
of the Northern Highwat and north of San Andres Street (the Marcus Canul area)
drain to low lying land to the north west of the town.
Some of the main roads in Orange Walk have side drains and the Dunn Street Drain
serves the area between Cinderella Street and the San Antonio Road, discharging into
the inner swamp. Otherwise there is verv little in the wan of a strategic drainage system
in Orange Walk..
During September 1999, a number of water samples were taken from strategic points
in the drainage channels in order to make preliminarv assessments of the water qualitv
in the drains. The water quality results are given in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1        Physico-chemical water quality results - Orange Walk
Parameter                                         Sites                 |
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       1            ~~~~~~~~~2   3
Ph                                        7 7.5         7.7         7.3
Temperature (oC)                         26.9  L      26.9         26.9
Conductivitv (mV)               T        -33           -46          -19
Conductivitv (4S/cm)            |        453            33          785
Salinit. (ppt)                              0            0          0.1
Ammonia (Nmg/l)                           0.4           0.1         0.1
1.       Dunn Street Drain - sample from drain adjacent to San Antonio Road
2.       Dunn Street Drain - taken from Cinderella Street
3.       San Lorenzo Road Culvert
The PHI collected water samples from six locations in Orange Walk and analysed
them for faecal coliforms. The results are given in Table 7.2 below.
DocNoO ,: O 1D.-My 1999   55 
F liEaone AnnFYe\bw\ otF!_o.c



Table 7.2       Bacteriological quality of drainage water - Orange Walk
Location  Description of Site                      Faecal
No.                                                coliforms /lOOml
1         Culvert on Cinderela Street                          460
2         Drain on San Andres Street                            560
3         Pond off San Antonio Road                             310
4         Culvert on Custard Apple St, Louisiana area   Too numerous to
count
5         Creek on Palmar Road                                  500
6         Creek, on San Lorenzo Road                             16
T-he bacteriological data suggest that there is some contamnination of drainage waters by
wastewater within the town. However, the stream on the westem side of Orange Zal;k
has verv little bacteriological contamination where it crosses the San Lorenzo Road via
culvert.
71..4               Temrstria/Ecolo
Within Orange Walk itself there is little natural ecology due to the built up nature of
the town. To the north, west and south, the land has been cleared for agricultural
production, notably for sugar cane, and closer to town for urban development. The
swamps located on the south west side of town support a tall-herb wetland community
containing cattail Typha domingensis and ThaElagenicula. Nearby residents commented
on sightings of crocodile. They also reported that the swamp dries out during the dry
season and is regularly set alight to get nrd of pests.
Substantial areas of swamp forest remain both along the floodplain of the New River
and to the west of the town. The wetter areas along watercourses support the
Northem Belize Bullet Tree-Logwood Variant Swuamp Forest, while dnrer land
supports the Northem Belize Riparian Seasonal Swamp Forest.
To the north west of Orange Walk, along the San Lorenzo Road, there is a large area
of dead and dying trees. Recent improvements to the road resulted in restriction of the
flow in the strearn on the westem side of town, due to the lack of culverts. This has led
D- N. C R-  CDr , 1  56
F \ t \                   po ,\     Nor do,



to the inundation of quite a large area of woodland. The waterlogging of the woodland
could have caused the death of the trees.
Further details of the ecology of these habitats is provided in Appendix B.
7. .5               Cultural Heritage
The land around Orange Walk was densely occupied, more or less continuously, from
about 1000 BC to 800/900 AD. Even after the so-called Maya Collapse, populations
can be detected well into the historical, colonial period (post 1550).
There are a number of Maya sites belonging to the Formative period (1000 BC to 250
AD) in the Orange Walk area, notably Yo Tumben which is located just north of
present day Orange Walk in an area known locallv as Indian Hill. Cuello, one of the
earliest known villages from the Mava lowlands, is located less than 3 km west of
Orange Walk. These sites enjoyed a period of expansion during the Classic period.
During the same period other settlements were established such as San Luis and San
Lorenzo to the west of Orange Walk. Architectural evidence of Post-classic activirv
(post 800/900 AD) is lacking, but is indicated by the presence of artefacts which
originated elsewhere, for example incense bumers made in the style of the northern
Yucatec Postclassic capital of Mavapan.
Orange Walk is suspected to have been the location of the sizeable Colonial Maya
town know as Holpatin which is mentoned bv Spanish chroniclers of the 16th centurv.
Accounts from 1638 suggest it was still occupied into the 17th centurv, but it was
abandoned and largely overgrown by 1641. The exact location of Holpatin is not
known.
By the late 18th century, Anglo populations had staked claims to tracts of land along
the New River, primarily for extracting and exporting logwood to England. Two
wood-cutting claims have been located in the vicinity of Orange Walk. One lies just
north of the BSI factory, while the second is located undemeath modern-dav Orange
Walk. Fort Mundy was constructed in 1874 in a location close to the present day Post
Office building.
Doc N. 0 Rcv:  Da M, 1995   57r
F W   Etc uc  !A"mn  Poc  \rbp R.o  Fn!N.ro



7.1.6              tUrban EntzrVnmenl and Expansion
The old part of Orange W;alk extends from the Northern Highway to the river, and
includes the town square, civic buildings and shops (Figure 7.2). Queen Victoria
Avenue is a notable feature in the centre of town, consisting of a short dualled section
of the Northem Highway with a planted central reserve and clock tower.
The town has expanded north and south along the Northem Highway, to the south
west, and to the west. Expansion to the north has incorporated Otro Benque village,
and to the south the old airport (nou Liberty Street), and the Louisiana and Bums
areas towards the New River. Expansion to the west has occurred within a large area
between the San Lorenzo and San Antonio Roads, including the Marcus Canul and San
Andres areas. Expansion to the south west is restricted by the inner swamp. However,
we understand that the landowner sold off part of the swamp, and it has been
developed for housing by land raising before building.
Tie New River forms a physical barrier to eastward development, although some land
subdivision has occurred recently on the eastem floodplam. This land is not suitable
for urban development as it is a flood risk zone.
7.1.7               EnrironmentaZ Health
In 1998 there were 10 reported cases of malaria and no cases of dengue fever in
Orange Walk. Vector control is undertaken by the Unit stationed in Corozal. They
undertake UL`v spraying with Melathion which takes three days to complete, provided
there is no interruption from rain. Inspectors also undertake household inspections to
destroy non-essential water coritainers and treat essential water containers with
ABATE to control Aedes egpti. This programme takes about four months to complete
each cycle.
No information was available about the spatial pattem of malaria cases nor breeding
sites. The swamp areas around the town are known to be infested with the Culex sp of
mosquito, which causes a nuisance for residents, but is not believed to be a malaria
vector.
7.2                 Proposed Programme of Works
The schedule of works proposed for Orange Walk is summarised in Table 7.3 and
located on Figure 7.2. Further information is provided in the Engineering Report.
Doc N  R- C D.,e M   5 8999   j8
F \e Xn-Lr a:A



Table 7.3       Schedule of Works for Orange Walk
Description of Work                                        Culvert Requirements
Phase I                                                                                        I
Dunn Street Drain - Renovate existing drain  2 No. existing pipe culverts to be demolished and
Lined blockwork drain. Covered for 339 m,    replaced with covered blockwork drain at road junctions
remainder open with struts.                  and side street drains.
Total drain length 689 m.                    Reolace culvert crossing on San Antonio Road.
San Lorenzo Road - Replace road culvert crossing. New box culvert 8m long x 5 m wide
Phase II
Tangerine Street / Craboo Street - New drain.  2 No. culvert crossings.
Unlined trapezoidal open drains.             Note: This drain may have to be changed to a lined
Total drain length 250-m                     drain due to lack of space. Costs were provided for a
trapezoidal open drain.
Phase III
Zericote Street / Royal Palm Avenue Drain.   3 No. culvert crossings.
New lined blockwork open drain.
Total drain length 350m..
TO BE DEFERRED -MAY BE CARRIED
OUT AS A LOCAL SCHEME                                                                          l
7.3                Potential Environmental Impacts
7.3.1              Overuew
The potential environmental inpacts associated with the overall programme are
summarised in Table 7.4 and discussed below. This is followed by a discussion of
specific issues associated with the proposed phasing of works.
Overall, given the small scale of the projects and nature of the environment, the
construction impacts are expected to be lowv magnitude and temporary.
The numbers of people likely to be affected by the works is relatively small. While,
Dunn Street Drain passes through a densely populated urban area, the San Lorenzo
culvert is located in the countryside, Tangerine Street Drain would onlv affect a small
number of residents, and the Ziricote Street Drain will probably not go ahead.
A total volume of 400m3 of concrete (cement, sand and aggregate) and only 30m3 of
fill are required for all the schemes (excluding and material for land raising in Ziricote
No O D, Me 1   59                                                                                   )



Street). The aggregate could be obtained from several sources in Orange WXalk District,
the largest quarry being in San Antonio. The haulage route would probablv pass
through Yo Creek, a small Indian village, and enter Orange Walk via the San Lorenzo
Road. There are a number of smaller quarries in the District which are associated with
Maya sites and should not be quarried. Other materials would probably be imported
and delivered bv road via the Northern Highwav.
The total volume of excavated material has been estimated at 3,560 mi3, most of it from
the excavation of Dunn Street Drain. The material is only likelv to include lmted
quantities of solid waste, as the drain is relatively clear of debris, but would include
organic matter and possible contamination from wastewater disposal. The excavated
should be disposed of to the Municipal waste disposal site.
There will be low to moderate benefits to the local econom-, with an estimated
1.lBz$M of works in Phase I to be built by national contractors. There will also be
some scope for local employment and provision of services.
Following construction positive long term benefits may accrue from improved
development potential and land values, particularly to the north west of town arising
from the replacement of the San Lorenzo culvert. However, it is not clear to what
extent this work wiL improve natural drainage. The other schemes are all small scale,
directly benefitng small numbers of houses.
The proposals are not expected to have any stgnificant effects on soil erosion, river
morphology, quality of surface waters, terrestrial or aquatic flora and fauna, visual
impact, disease vectors or the activities of the vector control units.
7.3.2                Phase I Works
The improvements required to upgrade Dunn Street Drain are relatively minor, and are
only likelv to cause very local, temporary nuisances to residents. The drain passes along
verges adjoining property boundaries so there would be no significant impacts on the
natural environment.
Construction of the drain would require the deliverv of an estimated 26,000 blockwork
bricks, 350m3 of concrete (cement, sand and aggregate), and 30t of reinforcement. It is
estimated this would require some 1000 HGV movements over a 12 month
D-c No 0 R- C Di,. My 1999   60
F \ V; \B,c.cccrc, Aasmn Foet  nw  cot _o.D



construction period, which averages out at about 4 a day. This volume of traffic is
relatively small, particularly when compared with the levels of HGNVs travelling on the
Northem Highway. During the sugar cane season (December to June), up to 1000
lorries laden with sugar cane travel through the centre of Orange Wxalk daily.
Dunn Street Drain discharges into the inner swamp area, which has no natural outlet.
Consideration was given to excavating a drainage channel to the outer swamp area
which is connected to the western stream. However, a topographic survey has shown
that the inner swamp is lower than the outer one, so it is not possible to drain.
Improvements to the Dunn Street Drain would result in a more peak-ed storm
hydrograph, with faster runoff to the swamp area. Interviews with householders near
the swamp area showed that while their houses were not flooded, the household plots
were (Section 15). This situation is likely to continue after renovation of the drain.
Discussions with residents and the Town Board indicate that there is a desire to infill
the swamp, thereby releasing land for development and obliterating the mosquito
nuisance close to town. If this is allowed to proceed, more people will be affected by
flooding, as the area is the natural collection point for an internally draining basin and
essentially acts as a balancing pond.
The proposed drainage scheme is unlikely to affect the qualitv of the drainage water, or
the water quality and ecologv of the swamp. The swamp is at risk from other activities,
particularly encroachment by land development.
Ceramic fragments of Maya origin were found on the higher land between the inner
and outer swamp, but there were no visible indications of Maya settlement (see
Appendix C). However, as it is no longer planned to connect the two swamps, the
scheme will not impact upon areas of known archaeological interest. However, given
the existence of known Maya sites in the general area of Orange Walk, and the
potential location of the Colonial settlement of Holpatin in the town, there is still
potential to unearth archaeological remains during construction.
The replacement of the culvert for the western stream under the San Lorenzo Road
will not affect residents as the site is located well away from housing. There is good
access to the site along San Lorenzo Road (although this road is unmetalled) from the
Zoc No C R- C Date Ma- 1999   61
\ VWe\En -ro= -tc A.csmz:r!\P.=\Ethbp\R--p.,t\F-=_N-. d.,



Northem Highway and from the San Antonio quarry which passes through Yo Creek
village.
There would be some disrupton to road traffic during the replacement of the culvert
due to partial road closures which would slightly reduce journey times. A traffic survey
conducted on this road in March 1999 gave a one-way Annual Average Daily Total
(AADT) figure of 350 vehicles of which 7 were sugar cane trucks.
On completion, the new culvert should reduce the flooding which occurs extensively
in the area after prolonged rain. However, it is very difficult to estimate this effect,
given the lack of topographic and hydrological information. If the reduction in
flooding is substantial, it could induce new housing in the Marcus Canul area, and
improve the viability of undeveloped land for residential development. This could then
impact adversely on areas of vegetation remaining to the north west of town.
7.3.3               Phase nI Works
T'he Tangerine Street Drain is a minor scheme which would have very little adverse
impact on local residents or the natural environment, while providing benefits to a
small number of houses from the relief of flooding.
From Tangerine Street the land slopes relatively steeply down Craboo Street and onto
a lower lying plain vegetated by a tall-herb wedand community. The steep slope
probably represents a river terrace edge slope, and the wetland beyond, the New River
floodplain. The 1:1000 maps of the west bank of the New River showT the swamp areas
on the floodplain Iying below 2 masl.
In a separate study undertaken for the Orange Walk Town Bypass, Halcrow (1999)
studied the hydrology of the New River to consider the effect of constructing the
bypass to the east of the town on flooding. Flow data were obtained for the six year
record at Tower HiL Bridge some 6 km upstream of Orange Walk. During the 1998
wet season, river levels peaked at 3.18 masl (Hurricane Mitch) and remained above 2.5
masl throughout November and December.
Using the limited data available, Halcrow estimated that the design flood level for the
100 year flood would be about 4.0 masl in Orange W'alk (and 4.4 masl at Tower Hill
Do N.o C R, - D ,. DiM 1099   62
F \ ' \Env,,or ntenra Asseswn cnt Pro,ect \ thulp XF2port\ Fmn.!Nov.toc



Bridge), and that the backwxater effect induced bv two new bridges over the river would
be in the order of 20 cms.
In general, properties bordering the western river bank tend to lie above the 4m
contour, indicating a consciousness in the past of the flooding risk of encroaching onto
lower Iying land. Recent maps of the area east of Tangerine Street show a number of
roads laid out in a grid pattem on the floodplain, some of which have been built. A
local resident commented to us that the swamp Iving on the New River floodplain, into
which the new drain from Tangerine Street will be directed, is to be cleared for
development. Clearly any residential development below the 4m contour would put
people and property at risk from flooding and should be prohibited.
7.3.4              Phase III Works
At the beginning of the current study, consideration was given to relieving localised
flooding in a small depression, bv excavating a short length of new drain along Ziricore
Street and Royal Palm Avenue to connect with an existing drain. During the course of
the study, this proposal was comprised bv the activirv of one landowner who raised the
land on his plot prior to constructing a house. The land raising has now made it
impracticable to excavate a new drain, and at the same time has probablv worsened the
flooding on his neighbour's land by impeding the evacuation of floodwaters. A
practical, alternative would be to raise the land downslope of the new plot. This could
be achieved as a local scheme by the MoW. Further consideration of the
environmental impacts of the proposals has not been undertaken.
D- No.C R.,- G D- M 199   63



Table 7.4               Summary of the Evaluation of Potential Environmental
Impacts
meter          Impact                                                        Evauastion of the Potential Impacts
Type      Magnitudc   Direct -    Duration    Avoidabic    Irreversible
(- or-)                  Indirect
, salty        EievatCd levels o.fdusl in the air durmg                 L            D            T             No             ND
constuction
Land-take during construction                                        D            P             No             Yes
Improve develooment potential and land                                I
values after construon
;and            Quarnes                                                 L             D           P             No             Yes
logy
Soil erosion dunng construction            NS
nage            Alter the pianform of natural or semi-     NS
natural streams dunng construction
Bank crsion dunng construction of         NS
unlined channels and outfalls
Change water quality due to accidental     NS
spiliages during construction
Increase flood risk in natural dranage      -                               T
Induce channel change after                NS
constuction
logv            Loss oftn-strearm flora arnd fauna dunng   NS
construction
Loss of floodpiain flora                   NS
Disturbsnce to wildlife dunng               NS
construction
Indirect effects of poor water quality                   L             I           T            Yes             Yes
from constructon actvities
Indirect effects from changes in flow      NS
regurne, channel stability or water qualitv
,an             Disturbance to residents during                  _        L                         T            Partly          No
.-ironment       construction
Disrupton to taffic dunng construction                   L            D            T            Partly           No
Visual Impact                               NS
DF: N.  O r O DA.. M    i  !999  64
F vV  ntomn         m    Poe \hp\ p r Fr_t.o



zeter        i lmpact                                                      Evaluation of the Potential Impacts
Type      Magnitude   Direct -    Duration    Avoidable    Irreversible
(- or-)                 Indirect
Employment and the local economy                      L-M           D           T
Drainage   Reduce urban flooding                        +          L-M           D            P
Reduce flood damage to property            _          L-M           D           P                           Yes
onmental    Health and safety of construction                        L            D            T           Yes             No
h             workforce
Health and safety of residents and                     L            D           T            Yes            No
pedestrians dunng construction
Reduce disease vector habitats            NS
ral           Loss of or daimage to archaeological                   L            D            P          Partly          Yes
age           remains dunng excavaton
Do- NO Rr -O Daiu May 199    65
F \We        ii  A    niPro,5si\luptRr,ss\Fm.>Nsadoe



8                   San Ignacio/Santa Elena
8.1                 Existng Conditions
8.1.1              JLocation and Settzr.
The twin towns of San Ignacio and Santa Elena are located on either side of the Macal
River in Cavo District (Figure 8.1). The towns lie on the Westem Highway, the main
route from Belize Citv to Guatemala, and are lnked by the Hawksworth Bridge over
the Macal River. San Ignacio and Santa Elena have a population of about 11,570 (1998
data).
8.1.2               Topographj and Geology
San Ignacio and Santa Elena are located at a strategic crossing of the Macal River
where the river emerges from the hill country of the pre-Maya Mountains and flows
northwards to its confluence with the Mopan River at Branch Mouth. The river
upstream of Hawksworth Bridge is confined within a steeply sided valley with no
floodplain. Downstream of the bridge, the valley widens out, with near vertical cliffs
on the eastem bank, and more gently sloping sides on the westem bank. In this area,
the valley flood lies at about 45-46 masl The twin towns are located on gently
undulating pediment surfaces on either side of the river, at some 70-80 masl. The
southem suburbs of the towns extend up the footsiopes of the hill country.
8.7.3               Drainage
T-he Macal River is characterised by low flows during the dry season and a series of
peaks representing storm runoff during the we, season. During floods, the river level
rises and falls rapidly inundating the lower valley slopes on the west side of the river
valley.
The highest recorded flood mark is 59.9 masl for a flood in August 1995, which
confirms witness statements that the river level rose to just below the deck of the
Hawksworth Bridge (60 masl), a rise of almost 14 m above normal river stage. On this
occasion the floodwaters inundated properties on the outskirts of San Ignacio around
the station and along Bums Street and the cemetery.
Doc.No C FC D-te      t9 66
F \We \E,loonrcoo Asesc. Poet top\wot liNtd 



Elooding during heavy rainfall is reported to be a problem in isolated areas The main
area affected is San Ignacio between Bullet Tree Road and Mufnoz Street Here the land
slopes northwards into a valley with a poorly defined drainage outlet. Flooding also
occurs in the citrus plantation and cemetery along Savannah Street as a consequence of
works blocking the existing cuivert under Survey Street and Savannah Street. In Santa
Elena flooding was reported to occur in the vicinity of the football ground along
Salazar Street.
During September 1999, portable water quality equipment was used to make a
prelirminary assessment of the water quality in the drains. At the time, there was
relatively little standing water in the drains, The results are given in Table 8.1.
Table 8.1        Pbysico-chemical water quality results - San Ignacio and
Santa Elena
Parameter                                       Site
Ph  1          2             3
Ph                                     8.0            8.5           7.7
Temperature (0C)                      33.3           34.6          35.;
Conductivity (mV)                      -59            92            46
Conductivitv (S/cm)                   813            212 |         665
Salinitv (ppt)                         0.2            0.0           0.0
Ammonia (Nmg/l)                     0.4-0.5             0             3
1.       San Ignacio - Drain at end ofJohn Martinez Drive
2.       San Ignacio - Eastem branch Belize River at site of temporary bridge
3.       Santa Elena - sample from drain outside football pitch (Salazar Street)
A request was made to the PHI to collect additional samples from selected drains for
bacteriological sampling. Unfortunately he was not able to do so. The reading for
ammonia at Site 1 indicates that there could be contamnination from wastewater.
8.1.4               TemrtrialEcology
Little natural vegetation remains within the town boundary. Upstream of Hawksworth
bridge the Macal river valley is vegetated by forest. Remnants of forest are also found
along the steep eastem bank of the Macal River, and along sections of the westem
bank. The remaining fragments of forest comprise the Lowland Moist Evergreen
Do: N.oC 2   :s).,,  19 67                                                                                   )



Seasonal Forests (Northwestern Varnant) and the Broadleaf Hill Forest Over
Limestone (Iremonger & Brokaw, 1995). The ecological survey did not identifv any
areas of ecological interest which would be affected by the drainage proposals (see
Appendix B).
8.7.5               Cuiura/Henwage
An important Maya site called Cahal Pech is closelv associated with San Ignacio. The
principal Maya site is located on a hil i mmediatelv south of San Ignacio and west of
the Macal River. However, the city is thought to have spanned both sides of the Macal
River occupying a surface area of approximatelv 2 km2. The site was occupied between
900 BC and 800 AD, after which it was abandoned, probably because of pressure from
other nearby sites.
8.7.6               Urban Entironmen: and Fxpansion
The main land uses in San Ignacio and Santa Elena are illustrated in Figure 8.2. The
old centre of San Ignacio is located just west of the Hawksworth Bridge between
Bums Avenue, Survey Street and Old Benque Road where housing density is high. The
town square, civic buildings, shops, market and the football stadium are located in and
around Colombus Park and Bums Avenue. The cathedral and its school and hospital
lie on higher land nearer Survey Street, and another large school and cemeterv are
located at the northern end of town.
San ignacio expanded early on southwards, up the hiislopes towards Cahal Pech, and
is still served by steep unpaved access roads. More recendy the town has expanded
westwards along Bullet Tree Road. Housing densitv is relatively low, but the quality of
housing is poorer and again many of the roads are unpaved.
Expansion is impeded eastwards, due to the flood risk, and northwards, due to
extensive citrus plantations.
Santa Elena is a suburb of San Ignacio, in so far that it does not have its own town
square, civic buildings, market etc. It is mainly residential, and has developed along the
Northem Highway, and the high land overlookng the Macal River. There are two
main schools, one on the left hand side of the Westem Highway at the entrance to
Santa Elena, and another on George Price Avenue near the Hawksworth Bridge.
D., No C R- c i)-. spt-s 15 68
F \,XntoeosS'  st  '°t\tb?Sd  rXF._  .rto



Recreational facilities include a large sports ground off Salazar Street which is reported
to be well used. Santa Elena does not suffer from river floods.
8.1.7                Enmronmenta/HeaLth
In 1998 there were 753 confirmed cases of malaria and I case of dengue (actually from
Benque) in Cayo District. (Disaggregated data for the twin towns was not available.)
The Vector Control Unit reported a decline in the number of reported cases in recent
years.
CLV\ spraying is normally carried out one day a week dunrng the wet season to control
mosquitoes. The Unit concentrates efforts in the lower lying areas such as the john
Martinez Road area and the cemetery. However, in August 1999, the Unit comrnmented
that they had not been spraying recently as the truck had been lent to Corozal District
following recent floods. The Unit has switched from DDT to Malathion in the last 1-2
years.
The Unit also undertakes house-to-house inspections to control Aedes eDptdi. This
programme takes 2-3 months to complete in San Ignacio and Santa Elena. The
inspectors destroy non-essential water containers and treat essential containers with
ABATE.
8.2                  Proposed Programme of Works
The schedule of works proposed for San Ignacio and Santa Elena is summarised in
Table 8.2 and the works are located on Figure 8.2. Further details are provided in the
Engineering Report.
Do-   F C Date Stpten: 19 69
F\ \5VXnvottrnntil AD= P 1e  tb: Rpt\FiNo.o



Table 8.2       Schedule of Works for San Ignacio and Santa Elena
Description of Work                                        Culvert Requirements
Phase I
John Martinez Road Drain - Improvement existing    8 No. box culverts to be constructed at road
drain and connect to stream                     crossings each about 15 m long.
Unlined trapezoidal open drain runing from
junction of Bullet Tree Road with John Martinez
Road. The drain runs along one side of]John
Martinez Road before turning north through 900 at
the end where it continues parallel to an orchard to
reach a creek some 350m away.
Total drain length 930 m.
Phase II
Salazar Street Drain - Renovate existing drain  No culvert crossings required as covered
Lined blockwork covered drain running adjacent to    blockwork drain continues across at both road
the wall of the sports field.                   crossings /side street drains.
Total drain length 253 m
IGeorge Price Avenue Drain - Renovate existing drain  No culvert crossings required
Ch 0-217 - Lined blockwork covered drain.
Ch 217-240 - Lined blockwork covered drain with
struts.
Total drain length 240 m
Outfall to Macal River at the end'of George Price
Avenue Drain. Concrete chute and stilling basin
discharging to the Macal River
Phase III
[Savannah Street Drain                           3 long sections of box culvert required see below
Box culvert from junction of Joseph Andrews Drive
with Savannah Street to discharge into the Macal  Ch 0-180 - single 1.Om wide * 1.Om high box
River                                           culvert
I Ch 0-324 .- Box culvert                         Ch 180-324 - single 1.5m wide*1 .Om high box
Ch324-500 - Lined blockwork open drain with struts  culvert
Ch500-720 - Twin box culvert                    Ch 500-790 - double box culvert 1 .m wide 1 .5m
Ch720-970 - Lined blockwork open drain, with struts  high
Total drain length 970 m
Outfall structure to end of Savannah Street Drain.
Gabions at outfall.
Dcc No 0 s_: o Dat s-t-be 1995 70
F  I  Et7umn   Ann\rDf=Idb.p\epr\  ra_    7.o



8.3                 Potential Environmental Impacts
8.3.1               Ovemeze
The potential environmental impacts associated with the overall programme are
summarised in Table 8.3 and are discussed below. Specific issues related to the phasing
of works are discussed in the following section.
Overall, the potential adverse impacts are small scale and related to the construction of
the scheme. One of the schemes, John Martinez Road Drain, runs through a residential
area. The Salazar Street Drain adjoins a football field, before runring along George
Price Avenue, while the Savannah Street Drain largely runs through undeveloped areas,
passing three or four houses. Consequent)y the number of properties affected by
construction nuisances such as dust, noise, and disruption will be low to moderate.
The subprojects will require an estimated 30,150 blockwork bricks, 1495 m3 of
concrete (cement, sand and aggregate), 245t of reinforcement, and 200 gabion baskets
in total. Aggregate could be sourced from Rockville Quarry (crushed limestone) or
Mile 38 (river gravels) and transported via the Westem Highway.
.n estimated 9,320 m3 of excavated material will have to be removed. Much of the fill
from the John Martinez Drain and Salazar/George Price Drain may be contaminated
by wastewater and should be disposed of to the Municipal waste disposal site on the
Western Highwav between San Ignacio and Benque. Spoil from the construction of the
Savannah Street drain would be relatively clean, and consideration should be given to
rtsing this material in local land raising projects.
Preliminary estimates of construction traffic movements suggest that there may be 5-7
HGVs per day, or about 1 an hour in any one Phase. This volume of traffic would be
relatively small compared to the volume currently using the Western Highway.
Most of the construction traffic is expected to approach the twin towns from the east
via the Westem Highwav. There is good access to each of the three sites. Salazar Street
is accessed directlv from the Westem Highway, and the Savannah Street Drain site can
be approached from Santa Elena via the temporary bridge without going through the
built up areas of San Ignacio. If the temporary bridge is closed, traffic would revert to
using the Hawksworth Bridge in both directions, but construction traffic would still be
able to avoid most of the built up area in San Ignacio by turning through the bus
DocNo. R- 0 Da.teSptb. 1999 71



station and into Savannah Street. The John Martinez Road Drai. site would be
approached via Savannah Street, Survey Street and Bullet Tree Road. AUll three roads
carrv through traffic.
The irmpact of construction traffic on other road traffic is likely to be low to moderate.
It may be necessary to close Savannah Street to HGVs if the option to build a box
culvert along the road is adopted and HGVs would have to be rerouted through San
Ignacio.
There are certain areas and occasions when there may be large numbers of pedestrians
near the construction sites due to nearby land uses. For example, Salazar Street Drain
runs along a football ground which is reported to be well used, and the westem end of
the Savannah Street Drain adjoins a school grounds. There could be health and safety
considerations for pedestrians.
The construction of two new outfalls into the Macal River would introduce new built
features along the river edge, affecting landscape quality. The increased discharge of
storrnwater to the Macal River is unlikely to have a significant effect on the water
quality and hydrology of the Macal River given flow volume and dilution capacity of
the Macal River, nor on aquatic ecology.
The archaeological walkover surveys found Maya pottery sherds at several locations
along Mufioz Street and Savannah Street indicating the potential for impacts on the
archaeological record.
There will be some benefits to the local economv with the award of the contracts to
local Belizean companies, with a potential 3.2BzSM in total, and an estimated O.3BzSM
in Phase I. There wil also be limited scope for local emplovment and provision of
senrices.
The improvements to John Martinez Drain should benefit a number of property in the
vicinity. However, the benefits to people for the other two schemes are much reduced.
The proposed drainage subprojects are not expected to have significant impacts on soil
erosion during construction, fluvial geomorphology, flora and fauna, disease vectors or
the need for vector control.
Do, No C R,- C Dro S.p-6n 1o)qi 72
F \Ve\.n\ oo -   A--.:\?,o ot\thbop R port\FtrJ_Nov doo



8.3.2               Phase I Works
The John Martinez Road Drain and outfall passes through a newly developing
residential area. Enlargement of the road drain, and initial part of the drain along
Mufioz Street would potentially cause some disruption to a number of residents. There
would be lirmited impacts on traffic along John Martinez Road which is a residential
access road carrying little traffic. It is also wide enough to accommodate a working
width for construction and passing vehicles.
During the archaeological walkover survey numerous pottery sherds vwere found
Mufioz Street. Although these did not appear to be associated with a particular
structure or feature, their presence indicates the potential for finding more
archaeological remains and the need for mitigation measures during construction.
Once constructed, this proposal should benefit a substantial number of properties
located alongjohn Martinez Road and in the low lying area along the outfall drain.
Here there are vacant and abandoned house plots and the relief of flooding mav
improve land values and development potential.
8.3.3               Phase II Works
The construction of the Salazar Street Drain and George Price Drain also requires the
construction of a substantial outfall structure into the Macal River. The eastem bank of
the river is defined by a river cliff several metres high. The outfall structure is required
to avoid bank erosion, both from drainage water and high flows in the Macal River.
The outfall structure would be set back in a minor ravine in the river cliff and
surrounded bv dense vegetation on both sides. The visual impact of this structure
would be restricted, and mosdly observed by people canoeing or swimming in the river.
The structure would not be visible from properties on the east bank and there are few
locations on the west bank where people can get access to the water's edge. The
impact of this structure on the landscape quality would be permanent but low to
moderate.
Construction of the outfall should be undertaken during the dry season when river
flows are low. As indicated above, the river can rise dramatically folowing heavy rain,
and could cause significant bank erosion if the vegetation is cleared and the bank
protection works are not in place. Construction of the outfall would result in some
Doc No C F- O D.,, 5 pS,b: i999 73                                                                           ?



localised turbidity in the Macal River, but this would not significantly affect aquaric
flora and fauna. On completion, the structure should not affect bank stability or
erosion.
The construction of a covered drain around Salazar Street would provide a short
length of pavement on the approach to one of the entrances to the football ground.
This is a minor enhancement upon existing conditions.
8.3.4                P 'ha II JJorks
At present the cemetery to the south of Savannah Street and the citrus grove to the
north flood as a consequence of runoff from a drain which runs parallel to the school
at the north end of Survey Street and the runoff from Survey Street. The construction
of the Savannah Street Drain would evacuate this floodwater to the Macal River.
The proposal costed in this study involves constructing a box culvert along Savannah
Street. This would avoid the need to encroach upon the cemetery or the citrus grove.
However, this is a relativelv expensive scheme in comparison with the benefits. An
altemative would be to relocate the drain in the citrus grove.
If the drain was constructed along Savannah Street, HGVs would probably have to be
rerouted during the works as there would be insufficient working width along the road.
Through traffic, particularly HGVs, pass along Savannah Street, as the more direct
approach routes to Hawksworth Bridge are too steep to accommodate HGVs.
Once constructed, the new outfall into the Macal River would introduce a hard feature
into what is presently an attractive, and accessible, amenity landscape by the river's
edge. There would be a permanent, low impact on landscape quality. Again there is a
risk of bank erosion during construction when the bank is cleared of vegetation.
Construction of the outfall would cause some localised turbidity in the Macal River,
but this is not expected to have a significant effect on aquatic fauna and flora.
Construction of this sub-project would reduce flooding in the cemetenr and the citrus
grove, but would not benefit any residential properties. In the last month, the local
MoV1 office has started to rebuild a culvert under Survey Street and Savannah Street.
Under these circumstances, it would be appropriate to wait and see if this action
ameliorates the flooding problem.
Zoclo 0v D., D-,, S,pt-b,e 1990 74
F 'W\5, We':vuou  Ass ,XFroi.,' \ thh=p \½Prort\F.N =_ o,.doc



Table 8.3              Summary of the Evaluation of Potential Environmental
Impacts
ncteT         Impact                                                       Evaluation of the Potential Impacts
Type      Magnitude   Direct -   Duration    Avoidabic    Irreversible
or-)                 Indirect
uality        Elevated leveis of dust in the air dunng               L            D           T             No             No
construction
Land-take dunng constrruction                                       D           P            No             Yes
Improve development potential and land     +           L            D           P
values after construction
and           Quarries                                 -             L            D            P            No             Yes
y             Soil erosion during construction          NS
sage          Alter the planforrn of natural or semi-   NA
narural strnams dunng construction
Bank erosion dunng construction of                    L-M           D            P            Yes            No
unlined channels and outfalls
Change water quality duc to accidental    NS
spillages during construction
Increase flood nsk in natural drainage    NS
Induce channel change after               NS
construction
ogv            Loss of in-stream flora and fauna during  NS
construction
Loss of floodplain flora                  NS
Disrurbance to wildlife dunng             NS
construction
Indirect effects of poor water quality                 L             I           T            Yes            Yes
from construction activities
lndirect effects from changes in flow     NS
regime, channel stability or water quality
in             Disturbance to residents dunng                          L            D            T           Partly          No
ronment        construction
Disruption to traffic dunng construction                L            D           T           Partiy           No
Visual Impact                                           L            D            P            No             Yes
Dec Ne O 1F- 0 D.t,: Ssstmbe 1999 75                                                                                                                   :
F\Uie\Ensronee,nril r



meter          Impact                                                        Evaluatiors of the Potennal Impacts
Tvpe      Magnitude    Direct -    Duration    Avoidable    irreversibie
or                   Indirect
Employment and the local economy            _           L            D            T
an Drainage    Rtduce urban flooding                        _           M             D            P            Yes            Yes
Reducc flood diamage to property            -           M            D            P             Yes            Yes
sronmental     Health and safery of construction                        L            D            T            Yes             No
ith            workforce                              |
Health and safetv of residents and                      L            D            T             Yes            No
pedestrians during construction
Reduce disease vector habtats              NS
ural           Potental loss of or damage to                            L            D            P            Partlv          Yes
itage           archlaeologica. remains dunngexcavation
D-s N-: C R, c D,r.  pssse t9  76
C \'e\Es   mss,sLJssesmen\r>es \bbu \o  r\Fu   e9rc



,X.-



9                   Benque Viejo del Carmen
9.1                 Exisig Conditions
9.1.1               Location and setzzng
Benque Viejo del Carmen (Benque) is the most westerlv of the study towns. It is
located on the east bank of the Mopan River. Benque is the last town on the Westem
Highway before the Guatemalan border (Figure 9.1). The population of Benque is
about 6,200 (1998).
9.7.2               Topography
Benque has been built mainly on the first river terrace on the eastem bank of the river.
The land rises steeply up from the riverbank to the first terrace which then slopes
gradually for about 0.5 km as far as the Westem Highway which bypasses the older
part of town on its eastem and southem sides. Bevond the Westem Highwvay, the land
rises steeply again to the east and more gradually to the south. To the north east, a
steep hill separates Benque from the neighbouring village of Succotz.
9.1.3               Draina,ge
The Mopin River rises in Guatemala and flows in a north easterlv direction past
Benque. The river meets the Macal River at Branch Mouth, downstrearn of San
Ignacio and continues as the Belize River. In .the vicinity of Benque, the Mopin River
follows a wide, relatively straight course. It is used by the townsfolk for washing
clothes and swimming. The river is also an important feature in the incipient tourism
industry, with numerous small scale recreational outlets in the areas for river related
activities.
Concerns have been expressed in several quarters about wastewater pollution from
settlements in Guatemala, but there are no water quality data for the river.
Nonetheless, given the large flows, the river does provide considerable dilution
capabilit;.
Two smaL streams flow through Benque to the Mopan River. The northem most
stream originates from high ground to the south east, flows alongside the eastem arm
of the Westem Highway bypass and enters the river at the northern end of town. This
Doc-Nr QC 0 z.O w.aciy iqqs 77



stream flow s along a relativelv natural channel, which has incised into the rock forming
a vallev several metres deep in places. The central stream or Central Main Drain rises
to the south, passes under the southem amr. of the Western Highway bypass (George
Price Boulevard), flows diagonally through the town centre and enters the Mopan
River about 200m west of the northem stream.
The central stream has been culverted along a short length which traverses a school
playground. The contractors did not backfill the drain and some storm drainage flows
along the gap between the culvert and banks. This poses a health nsk to school
children both from contamination and accidentally falling into the gap. A grill has been
placed on the upper entrance to the culvert to catch solid waste and vegetation
entrained in storm flow. However, this debris tends to block the entrance to the
culvert and encourage localised flooding. Many properties along the alignment of this
drain suffer from flooding due to under capacity and undersized culverts.
During September 1999, portable water quality equipment was used to make a
preliminary assessment of the water quality in the drains. The results are provided in
Table 9.1. The levels of ammonia indicate potential contamination from wastewater.
Table 9.1        Physico-chemical water quality results - Benque
Parameter                                       Site
l    _   _   _   _       _   l1             1     2              3
Ph                          No water in               8.0 |          8.0
drain                        l
Temperature (gC)                                     32.7           32.9
Conductivity (mV')                                    -60            -60
Conductivity (uS/cm)                                  967            505
Salinitv (ppt)                                        0.3            0.0
Ammonia (Nmg/l)            _0.9                                      0.3
1. Central Main Drain - George Price Boulevard road culvert
2. Central Main Drain - Churchill Street Bridge culvert
3. Central Main Drain - George Street, near outfall
W;e requested the PHI to collect water samples from selected drains and analyse them
for Faecal Coliforms. Unfortunately the local PHI has not been able to do so to date.
Doc No O Rv: O D,,- Me i°55 78                                                                               ;.
FA\W,%E,,- '



9.1.4               Termrstn'al Ecolo
Benque is well established, and as a result very little natural vegetation remains close to
town. There are fragments of Lowland Moist Evergreen Seasonal Forests
(Northwestem variant) and Broadleaf Hal Forests Over Lunestone (Iremonger &
Brokaw, 1995). These habitats are described further in Appendix B. The ecological
survey did not identifv any areas of ecological importance which would be affected by
the drainage proposals.
9.1.5               Cultural Hentage
Benque is located very close to the ancient Maya city of Xunantunich, which is situated
on high land on the west bank of the Mopan River. Xunantunich was occupied during
the Classic Period, from probably a little before the start of the Christian era up until
the 10th centurv AD, and surviving thereafter among dilapidated structures. Other
Maya sites are also found in the area, which must have been intimately related with the
site at Xunanrunich.
9.1.6               Urban Enrtronment and Expansion
The modern settlement of Benque dates from the 1860s when Yucatec refugees (from
Mexico) corming via the Peten region (Guatemala) started to settle in the area. Today,
population increase continues to be affected bv immigration from Guatemala.
The older parts of the tbwn occupy an area of some 60 ha and extend along the
Mopan River for some 1 km length and for a distance of approximately 500 m inland
to the bypass (George Price Boulevard). The streets have been laid out on a rectangular
grid, taking no account of the natural terrain and drainage-paths. This has resulted in
the natural drainage channels passing through residential blocks and individual
properties.
New development areas are located on the steeply rising ground on the eastern and
south-eastern fringes of the town. Again, mans of these areas have been developed
without provision for drainage.
9.1.7               EntironmenalZHealth
In 1998 there were 753 confirmed cases of malaria and 1 case of dengue in Cayo
District. Disaggregated data for Benque are not available for malaria, although the one
case of dengue was a resident of the town. The VCU responsible for Benque is based
DocN D R- 0 D.. MiZ 1995 79
F \ t\n::=nc: Acn\Frc.t \Po rbp\Fpo \Fs_c.o



in San Ignacia. They reported a decline in the number of reported cases in malaria in
recent vears.
ULV spraving is normallv carried out one dav a week during the wet season to control
mosquitoes. This programme takes about 3-4 hours provided that there are no
interruptions from rain. In August 1999, however, the VCU commented that they had
not been spraving recentlv as their truck had been lent to Corozal District following
recent floods. The Unit has switched from DDT to Malathion in the last 1-2 vears.
The Unit also undertakes house-to-house inspections to control Aedes eDpj>I. The
inspectors destroy non-essential water containers and treat essential containers with
ABATE.
The PHB in Belize Citv visited Benque earlier in 1999, in response to an outbreak of
suspected leptosporosis in some 20 school children aged 5-12 years old from the Mt
Carmel Infants School (pers. comm.). (The illness was subsequendy diagnosed as
Hepatitis A). This may be linked to the unsanitarv conditions of the partiallv finished
culvert traversing the school grounds.
9.2                 Proposed Programme of Works
The schedule of works proposed for Benque is summransed in Table 9.2 and located in
Figure 9.2. Further details are provided in the Engineering Report.
DOC N. O R0: O   mA 1999 80



Table 9.2       Schedule of Works for Benque
Description ofWork                                                Culvert Requirements
Phase I
Central Main Drain from Mount Carmel School crossing      4 No. culvert road crossings to be
George lPrice Boulevard continuing north through the town  replaced
discharging to the Mopan River. Renovate lined open drain.
Part of structure previously constructed in culvert.
Ch 0-150 - Lined blockwork open drain
ChI50-400 - Box culvert constructed previously to be backfilled
Ch400-765 - Lined blockwork open drain
Total drain length 765 m
Phase II
Liberty Street                                            4 No. culvert road crossings to be
New lined covered road drain to both sides of road.       constructed
Each side 30Dm long
Total drain length 60Dm
George Street Drain.                                      3 No. culvert road crossings to be
New lined covered road drains along one side of road.     constructed
Total drain length 45Dm including outfall
Phase III
Wvatt Street                                              1 Nio. culvert road crossings to be
New lined covered side drain along one side of road and outfall.  constructed
Total drain length 100m.
9.3                 Potential Environmental Impacts
9.3.7               Orrnew
The potential environmental impacts associated with the programme are summarised
in Table 9.3 and discussed below. Specific issues related to the phasing of the works
are described in the following sections.
The scale of the proposed works in Benque is relatively small. Nonetheless all the
works are located in built up areas, and are likely to affect a large number of
householders and pedestrians along the alignments of the proposed works.
Construction of all the proposed schemes would require an estimated 24,000
blockwork bricks, 680 m3 of concrete (cement, sand and agregate), 49 t of
Doc NO RO C D..  2995 81
P ve   ncnul   nrm\horbl\rorp-Nr.c



reinforcement and about 1000m3 of fill. The amount of spoil to be disposed of is
estimated at about 2700m3. Given the location of Benque close to the Guatemala
border, the materials are likelv to be resourced to the east, with access along the
Westem Highway via the twin towns of San Ignacio and Santa Elena. Any waste
material would be disposed of to the Municipal waste disposal site between Benque
and San Ignacio.
Preliminarv estimates of lorrv movements during construction suggest that between 1-
5 lorr; movements per dav will be required to deliver materials and remove spoil. The
cumulative impacts of construction traffic on other traffic and circulation by
constructing the projects in San Ignacio/Santa Elena and Benque simultaneously is still
expected to be low given the estimated volumes of traffic involved.
Improvements to the existing outfall, and tne construction of two new ones, would
lead to some short term, localised reduction in water qualitv in the river due to
increased turbidity. The risk of bank erosion during construction is considered to be
low. On completion, the scheme would increase the peakedness of storm water
reaching the river, but would not significantly affect the water quality of the Mopan
River, given the volumes of discharge involved and the dilution capacity of the Mopan
River.
The new outfalls would introduce two new hard, but small features on the river bank.
However, as the proposed outfalls are within the town, the structures would not be out
of place within the overall context of the urban frontage to the river.
There is potential for uncovering archaeological artefacts, given the presence of
ceramic fragments near the Central Main Drain and the proximity of Benque to known
archaeological sites in the general area, particularly Xunantunich.
Construction would bring low to moderate benefits to the local economv through the
award of construction contracts valued at about 0.75Bz5M for all the subprojects, and
0.45BzSM in Phase I.
The proposed schemes would bring relief from flooding to a large number of
residential and commercial properties in the town.
DocNO Rtv: C D. Mc.y 1995 82
F \W,\ En-.msnn: mAor \Floiesthb.p \Rtpon\Fu.lL_No,.50c



The proposals are not expected to have significant impacts on the hydrology and water
quality of the Mopan River, flora and fauna, disease vectors and the need for vector
control.
9.32                 Phase I Works
The Central Main Drain crosses the town diagonally through private propemr The
improvements to this drain would cause some temporary nuisances to the immediate
residents.
Construction activities to backfill the culverted section of the Central Main Drain
through the Mt Carmel school grounds could potentially pose a hazard to school
children and special precautions are necessary to safeguard them, for example, the
works should be undertaken outside of term time.
Improvements to the Central Main Drain are expected to provide substantial benefits
to the Mt Carmel middle and junior schools. Backfilling the culvert through the school
grounds would remove an existing risk to the health and safet, of the school children,
release land for improving recreational facilities, and reduce severance between the two
halves of the school grounds. The works will also reduce flooding around the school,
which currently presents a nuisance to the school children when they arrive at and
leave school.
Numerous householders located along the alignment of the drain would also benefit
from reduced flooding and the rapid evacuation of wastewater which currently
stagnates in pools along the drain,
9.3.3                Phase II Works
The main adverse impacts associated with the construction of the Phase II Works
concerns the difficulties in excavating drains along narrow, constricted roads in built
up areas. If it proves necessary to close off the streets during construction, traffic can
easily be rerouted as the town centre is built on a grid system.
Open excavations in urban areas present a safety hazard to pedestrians and need to be
fenced off and clearly marked. The proximity of houses and commercial properties on
the street front will increase the nuisance from dust and noise to occupiers. It will also
be necessary to maintain accesses to property as far as possible.
Zoo No O RP- c D,y Ma w  83
F W\msnet A n\rtmthtl\eor\  a!No. e



Construction of the scheme will provide relief from  flooding along the roads in what is
a densely developed part of the town centre. The provision of covered drains, which
can be used as walkways, wvill also provide some enhancement for pedestrians.
9.3.4                       Phase III Works
The specific issues related to the construction of the %Vyatt Street Drain are similar to
those described above for Liberty Street and George Street Drains.
Table 9.3              Summary of the Evaluation of Potential Environmental
Impacts
seter        Impact                                                      Evaluation of tihe Potential Impacts
Type      Magnitude    Direct -   Duration    Avoidable    Irreversible
_-(+ or-)               Indirect
sialiny      tiev-ted levels of dust in the air dunng              L           D            T            No            No
constrjcton
Land-take dunng construction              -Dp                                               No             Yes
Improve development potential and land    +           L            D           P
values after construcuon
and           QurresL                                                            D           P            No             Yes
Soil erosion during construction         NS
age          Alter the planforrm of natural or semi-   NA
natural streams dunng construction
Bank erosion dunng construction of                    L            D            T          Partly          Yes
uniined channels and outfalls
Change water quality due to accidental   NS
spillaiges dunng construction
Increase flood risk in natural drainage  NA
Induce channel change after              NA
construction
'gY           Loss of mn-stream flora and fauna dunng   NS
construcuon
Loss of floodoain flora                   NS
Disturbanct to wildlife dunng             NS
construction
Doc N. O  RF- O , e M.7 :19  84
F VW\B; En ieri;=e A.ssc=n: \ ?:ieus b ibp \Rnpoii\Faui_N oedss



neter          Impact                                                           Evaluation of the Potental impacts
Type       Magnitude    Direct -    Duration         Avoidabie      lrreversible
_(or-)                    Indcrect
Indircct effects of poor water quality       NS
from constuction activitiecs
Indirect effects from changes in flow        NS
regime, channel stablity or witer quality
n              Disturbrince to residents during                           L             D            T            Partly           No
-onment        construction
Disruption to traffic dunng construction                   L             D                         Partly           No
Visual Impact                                              L             D            P             No              Yes
Emplovynent and the local economy             +          L-M             D            T
n Dra'-agc    Reduce urban fiooding                                       M             D             P            Yes            'Yes
Reduce flood damage to properry                           M             D             P             Yes             Yes
ronmental       Health and safety of construrton                           L             D            7             Yes             No
th             workforce
Health and safety of residents and                        _L             D            T             Yes             No
pedestnans dunng construction
Reduce disease vector habitats               NS
iral            Potenial loss of or damage to                              L             D            P            Partly           Yes
rage            archaeological remauns during excavation
Do. N. c  r- O Da- m.y7 iq   85
F \w,rcrorsoer r. Asersntsoeeccb \R,sos5\Finr.Noe*coc



I               I
I               I
or- 3k



10                  Dangriga
10.1                Existing Conditions
10.1.7              Lncation and settzin
Dangriga is situated at the mouth of North Stann Creek some 60 km south of Belize
City (Figure 10.1). Dangriga is accessed bv the Stann Creek Valley Road which leads to
the Hummingbird Highwav and Belmopan, or via the coast road to Belize Cit;. The
population is approximately 7,390 (1998).
10.72               Coastal and Marine Envzrmnment
The configuration of the coastline in Dangriga is gendy convex suggesting a deltaic
formation centred on Stann Creek. This creek is an important source of coarse sand
which is transported along the coast forming sandy beaches and bars across other
creeks and canals. There is anecdotal evidence of rapid accretion of sand along the
foreshore, with the shoreline reputed to have been located along what is now Front
Street within living memorv.
In more recent decades, erosion and sediment depletion has occurred at various
locations along the coast resulting in reduced width of beaches. There are several
possible reasons for this erosion - the effect of extreme storm events, uncontrolled
sand mining on the beach, nearshore dredging for material for land raising and the
construction of a large pier interrupting longshore drift. Various attempts have been
made to construct beach protection works.
Dense seagrass beds are known to exist offshore. Coastal patch reefs are recorded in
the area, and there are reef systems within the Man-of War Caye protected area, 10-15
kms from the shoreline. The CZMA consider that there are potential environmental
problems affecting the coastal and marine environment in the Dangriga area from
several sources. These include domestic sewage pollution, soil erosion due to
agricultural practices and also leachate from a solid waste dumpsite draining to Stann
Creek. It is suspected that pollution inputs could have caused eutrophicaton of
seagrass and patch reefs off the Stann Creek District coastline.
DocNo C    D.. 19. 99 86



17.1.3              Tqpogaphj
The whole town is situated on flat, low Iying land a little above sea level. The old part
of the town is built on a natural sand ridge where ground levels are typically 0.9 masl to
1.5 masl. More recent exoansion of the town to the south and west has involved
reclamation of swamp by land raising.
The whole length of the sea front is a sandy area which is continuallv fed with
sediment from North Stann Creek. This sediment is very high quality and relatively
coarse sand, compared with other Belize sources, and has been mined in the past.
170.1.4             Dra~nge
Three creeks flow to the sea at Dangriga, North Stann Creek (or Stann Creek) which
flows through the centre of town, followed by Havanna Creek to the south, and John
Creek to the north.
North Stann Creek rises in the Maya Mountains and flows eastwards to the sea. It is
the largest creek in Dangriga, and is the main source of drinking water for the town.
During low flows, the mouth of Stann Creek can be partially obstructed by sand bars
created bv longshore drift which impede navigation in the channel. These bars are
usually breached during high flows. Stann Creek drains a large area of Dangriga itself.
John Creek drains a much smaller catchment, rising in the low Iying swamps to the
west of Dangriga. Much of the channel is vegetated which reduces flows in the river. A
lot of solid waste has been tipped or washed into the creek and collects around
bottlenecks such as culverts where flow is further restricted. John Creek has a
reasonably clear outfall which is kept clear by tidal action. The mouth faces northeast,
into the prevailing wind, and may not suffer the same degree of deposition as other
creeks in the vicinity.
Havanna Creek serves a large part of central Dangriga. The mouth of the creek is
regularly obstructed by the build up of sand, particularly during the dry season when
the water can become stagnant and foul smelling.
Do- No o P-,C D.,  -: lq9 87
F \ /\E,,ooo,,nme.. u:asPotXib4pRpr\uNr.o



Groundwater levels in Dangriga are high, reducing narural infitration and increasing
the risk of flooding.
Within the centre of Dangriga, floodmg occurs durng hea2v rainfall, due to localised
drainage problems. Existing road drains along Commerce Street and St Vincent Street
are not continuous and do not have effective outfalls.
The newer development areas to the west and south of Dangriga lack fornal drainage.
Some streets have drains, which are partially blocked and have inadequate outfalls,
while others lack roadside drains. A ditch runs from the Lakeland area to Havanna
Creek but it is partiallv blocked.
During September 1999, portable water quality equipment was used to make a
preliminary assessment of the water qualitv in the drains. The water quality results are
presented in Table 10.1
Table 10.1       Physico-chemical water quality results - Dangriga
Parameter          ,                                   Sites
l__ _ _ _ _ _  1  l  2       3           4      l                   6
Ph                 |                  7.0 |         7.7         6.6           7.2|         6.9
Temperature             -            31.1          34.4        32.1          29.7         32.8
Conductivitv (mY')   __-___-1                      -41          -26           -17           -1
Conductiv:tv       |1-_i_ 1 OOiS/cm    29.5mS/cm  1O1S/cm   6.37mS/cm   3.51mS/cm
Saltnity (ppt           -    |         0.0         18.5          0.3          3.5          1.8
Armonia (mg/I)          -             0.2                                     0.4          0.4
1.       Stann Creek - Commerce Street Bridge
2        Stann Creek - adjacent to proposed Penn Street Canal
3.       Havanna Creek Canal - St Vincent Street Bridge
4.       Lakeland Canal - access via Stann Creek Road
5 .      Sabal Street - from Jetty Pier Road Bridge
6.       John Creek Canal - Penn Road Bridge
' Precipitation due to salinity
The PHI collected water samples from six locations in Dangriga and analysed them for
faecal coliforms. The results are given in Table 10.2 below.
Don Nc C    ficx U a:  88
F \       r



Table 10.2      Bacteriological quality of drainage water - Dangriga
Location  Description of Site                        Faccal
No.                                                  coliforms /lOOml
1          Havanna Bridge                                           0
2          Mouth of North Stann Creek                              10
3          North Stann Creek - Ecumenical Drive                    20
4          Creek - Penn Road                                       10
5          Lakeland  anal 1                                       800
6          Lakeland Canal 2                                       800
The bacteriological data suggest that the creeks have relatively little sewage
contamination, although the ammonia and bacteriological data indicate some
contarmination of the canals with wastewater.
Solid waste disposal seems to be a particular problem in Dangriga. Many sections of
canal contain solid waste particularly at low points or upstream of structures such as
culverts which impede further movement.
I1O. 1.5 jTerrrstinaEcology
Given the built up nature of Dangriga there is little natural habitat left in the town
centre. There are various fragments of vegetation which include Lowland Broadleaf
Moist Forest Over Poor Soils, Basin Mangrove Forest and Mixed Mangrove Shrubland
(Iremonger & Brokaw, 1995). Further information on these habitats is provided in
Appendix B.
The ecological survey has identified a number of ecological issues in Dangriga. The
town is surrounded by several areas of wetland or other types of natural vegetation,
which is coming under threat from urban expansion into what are effectively
unsuitable areas for development.
Mangroves are intemationally threatened habitats. In Belize, 14% of land in protected
areas consists of basin mangrove. Mangroves are further protected from clearance
through a permitting system (see Section 3). In Dangriga, John Creek is a mangrove
Do o O ev:  D-t \ ,   1W  89         ,



creek with its associated vegetation, and Basin Mangrove Forest is found in the
Melinda Road Canal area and to the south of Dangriga in the Lakeland area and the
Gra Gra Lagoon.
The Gra-Gra Lagoon is a large, nearlv pristine wetland of ecological importance. It is
also under threat from development. Lakeland Canal and Sabal Canal alreadv drain into
the swamp margins of the lagoon, and transport dimr drainage water as well as solid
waste into the mangroves. Urban expansion is encroaching into the wetlands on the
margins, for example in the Rivas Estate, and a marina is being developed within the
lagoon system itself Much of the land around the lagoon and along the coastal strip
has been subdivided, but not developed yet.
A local NGO called the Friends of Gra-Gra has been established to promote the
interests of the Gra Gra. Thev are attempting to manage the lagoon, are seeking
protected status for the site, undertake litter clean up campaigns and promote
environmental education m Dangnga.
Morelet's crocodiles are reported to occur in the Melinda Road Canal area and in the
Gra Gra Lagoon. This species is listed as threatened in the IUCN Red Data Book The
population in Belize is healthy, and as people develop into the swamp areas, they are
increasingly coming into conflict with the crocodile. The animal is increasingly being
seen as a pest.
10.1.6              Cultural Herztage
The origin of Dangnga can be traced to the defeat and transportation of five thousand
Garinagu in 1797 from the island of St. Vincent to Roatan off the coast of Honduras.
Between 1802 and 1811 about 150 Garinagu settlers started to occupy the Stann Creek
area of Southem Belize. They were engaged mainly in fishing and subsistence farming,
visiting Belize City to sell their produce. The main wave of Garifuna immigrants came
after 1832 as a result of civil war in Honduras. The population was further augmented
by Creole Belizeans who started to settle in the area to take advantage of the rich
fishing grounds offshore.
On Februarv 15,1895 Stann Creek was declared a Town with its own Board. From
1900 to 1918 the United Fruit Company converted the Stann Creek Valley and Town
into a major agricultural and commercial centre with the construction of the valley
DocNoO  Rv C D.. M.Y199 90
F \W,  nv,,onas-i  usesmer.:\Po,atbwp\Rno,,\FuiNc,.doc



railway and Commerce Bight Pier. In 1961, Stann Creek was destroyed bv Hurricane
Hattie and was subsequently rebuilt. In 1975 Stann Creek was renamed 'Dangriga'
meaning 'Standing Creek'.
Given the recent history of Dangriga, cultural heritage associations are related to the
colonial period.
10.17.7            Urban Entironment and Exp-ai. ,on
The older parts of the town are constructed on a natural sand nrdge parallel to the
shore. This part of the town extends over a length of some 2 km from)John Creek to
Havana Creek, and extends less than 1 km irlland from the sea. The main commercial
centre lies along Commerce Street, St Vincent Street, and Havanah Street. The town
square, civic buildings, market and slaughterhouse are grouped together on land
between Commerce Street and the sea. The sea front between the town and beach is a
strip of open space and parks varying between 50 and 150 m wide.
More recent expansion of the town has occurred into the Lakeland and Rivas Estate
areas, which are located on the southem and southwestem fringes of the town. This
expansion has involved reclamation of mangrove swamp (known locally as the "Gra
Gra'D by land filling. The most active expansion of the town at present is occurring on
the westem fringes of the town, particularlv in the area between the Stann Creek Valley
Road and the Stann Creek River. This development has also involved some land filling
in swamp areas, particularly for the construction of access roads, although not all of
the land is particularly low lying.
710.1.8    .        EntirvnmentlaHealth
Malaria levels are considered to be relatively low in Dangriga amounting to about 50/0
of cases in the District. This is put down to various causes, such as the lack of
migration between the population of the town and rural areas where malaria is more
common. The VCU in Dangriga focuses its activities on high nsk zones which lie in
the citrus plantations inland. They do not undertake any routine spraying in Dangriga
due to lack of resources and low incidence of malaria. However, they would implement
set procedures to control malaria should there be a significant increase in incidents (ie
more than 7 cases in one month) involving testing householders in the neighbourhood
and household spraying.
Doc NoO R0v C D-: Mcy 1999 91



The VCU does undertake a limited programme to control Aede; eDptzi to prevent
dengue in Dangriga. This programme concentrates on key areas such as the cemetery,
ports of entry etc. It involves destroying non essential containers and dosing essential
containers with ABATE There were three confirmed cases of dengue in 1998 in the
Stann Creek District.
10.2                Proposed Prograrnme of Works
The schedule of works proposed for Dangriga is sumnmarised in Table 10.3 below and
located on Figure 10.2. Further details are provided m the Engineermg Report.
In Dangriga, the topography is so flat that there is insufficient gradient to allow the
construction of self-cleansing drains. Moreover, the nature of the coastal processes
means that the drainage outfalls which do not have continuous flow are liable to be
blocked periodically by the deposition of sandy bars.
The overall approach to improve drainage in Dangriga is to improve the capacity of
existing canals, excavate new ones, and increase the inter-connectivity of the canals and
creeks. The increased capacity of the canal svstem would permit greater storage
capacity for floodwaters, and the increased connectivity of the canal and creek systems
would allow tidal flushing to maintain water quality. The entrance of the canals onto
Stann Creek would be controlled by manual penstocks to protect the land from
flooding when Stann Creek is in spate.
Consideration is still being given to the need for all the proposed canal lengths. The
initial phases should focus on improving the existing creeks. Subsequently, attention
should be turned to i-nproving the Sabal Canal:Lakeland Canal connection, followed
bv the remaining works.
::).,N. C  CUv   Date I    1999  92



Table 10.3      Scbedule of Works for Dangriga
i Oescnption of Work            |            ~~~~Culvert Requirements
John Creek Canal                                3 No. culvert crossings required
Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal 6-9 rn wide on
bed.
Total drair. length 501 m.                      __l
I Penn Street Canal                              No culvert crossings
Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal 3 m wide on bed.   N
ITotal drair length 830 m.                       __|
Havanah Creek Canal                             2 No. culvert crossings required
Ch 0-700 - Lined concrete open canal
Ch700-1091- Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal 8 m
wide on bed.
Total drain length 1091 m
Dredge lohn Creek and Havanah Creek outfalls
2 No. Gated Structures onto Stann Creek
Phase II
Sabal Street Canal                              6 No. culvert crossings required
Ch 0-421- Lined concrete open canal
Ch421-652 - Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal 3 m
wide on bed.
Ch652-750 - Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal with
embankments and 3 m wide on bed.
Total drain length 750 m
Lakeland Canal - Realign section downstream of
Sabal Street
I Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal with
embankmrents.
Bed width 3-6.5 m.
Phase III
Abogaldes Street Canal                          5 No. culvert crossings required
I Ch 0-280 - Unlined trapezoidal open canal 4 m wide
on bed.
Ch280-498 - Lined concrete open canal
Total drain length 498 m
DocN O B.-v. O Dat. My 1C9 ~f93
F \W'\E oncl!    n



Description of Work                                           Culvert Requirements
Lakeland Canal - Stann Creek to Abogaldes Street  6 No. culvert crossings required
Canal. Queryv improvements in extension Abogaldes
Street to Sabal Street
ChO-1 150 - Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal 3-6 m
wide on bed
ChllS10-2189 - Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal
with embankments and 3-6.5m wide on bed.
Total drain length 2189 rn 
Melinda Road Canal                                3 No. culvert crossings required.
Unlined trapezoidal open cut canal 3 m wide on bed.
Total drain length 903 m. 
St Vincent Street Drain                           No culvert crossings as blockwork road drain
Lined blockwork covered side drain one side of road   assumed to continue across at road and side street
2-1000  L ]ong (2000 m total drain length)       I drains
Commerce Street Drain                             No culvert crossings as block-work road drain
Lined blockwork covered side drain each side of road  assurmed to continue across at road and side street
2'640 m (1280 m total drain length)               drains
Sluice gated structures to Stann Creek Canal.     4 No. required
10.3                Potential Environmental Impacts
10.3.1              Overtiew
The potential environmental impacts associated with the prograrnrne of works in
Dangriga are summnarised in Table 10.4 below. Specific issues related to the phasing of
works are discussed in the following sections.
The construction of the large number of works proposed for Dangriga, a considerable
proportion of them being for unlined canals, is likelv to cause signiticant impacts on
local residents and traffic due to the need for land-take, severance of access to
properties, use of noisv plant to excavate larger canals, and large numbers of
construction vehicles to deliver materials and remove spoil.
While some of the proposed drains run along streets (Commerce Street and St Vincent
Street) there are extensive lengths of canal which cross open ground without existing
vehicular access. It will be necessary to provide temporary access dunrng construction,
for example by downloading materials from lGVs to snaller dump trucks, or using
the embankments along Lakeland Canal as access roads. In some areas, for example
Do- No 0 R- C D.t, May 199C 94
F \ ' \   u    nod



sections of Sabal Street Canal, the drains need to be lined to reduce their width due to
the proxirnity of house plots.
Construction of all the proposed subprojects would require some 22,200 blockuwork
bricks, 5,300 m3 of concrete (cement, sand and aggregate), 529t of reinforcement,
10,016 m3 of fill material, and 20 t of timber (Appendix E). The sand, aggregate, and
fill materials could be won locally from existing licensed quarries or river gravel sources
off the Southem Highway. The blockwork may be constructed locally. Other materials
would have to be imported.
Large volumes of sediment will be excavated from the existing and new drains. Some
of the material from existing drains would be contaminated with solid waste and
wastewater, and would be best disposed of to the Municipal waste disposal site.
Material dredged from wetland areas would be too wet to reuse immediately, and may
contain too much organic matter eg tree roots, to be reused for land raising. This
material may also have to be sent to the Municipal waste disposal site.
Uncontaminated, dry spoil could be reused in controlled land raising to avoid further
environmental impacts.
The delivery of materials and disposal of wastes, will require large volumes of traffic
over the construction period, estimated at some 22,350 vehicles in total. The Stann
Creek Valley Road and u-Iummingbird Highway provide good access to Dangriga,
suitable for HGVs. Within the town, the narrow busv streets, large numbers of
pedestrians and built up nature of the town may result in moderate to high levels of
nuisance to residents, pedestrians and other road users.
Improvements to John Creek in Phase I, Lakeland Canal in Phases II and III, and the
Melinda Road Canal in Phase III will result in the loss of mangroves, a globally
threatened habitat. While the area affected is small in the national context, the
implications for alteration to mangroves at the local scale are significant, with potential
indirect impacts on the renaining habitat through induced development.
Vegetation clearance and excavation of a large number of unlined canals would
increase the risk of soil erosion. The use of heavy plant in swamps and wetlands could
also compact the soils with indirect effects on runoff and vegetation. These effects
could be reduced by avoiding land clearance and earthworks during the wet season.
Do N. O R-: 0 D-u: M, 1999 95



As each of the six canals is connected to Stann Creek there will be an initlal flushing of
waters and sediment. As it is likely that the existing canals are contaminated with
wastewater (sewage and household sullage), the minal flushing would probablv result in
lower water qualitt in the creek. :-owever, as the tidal flushing process develops, the
poor water quality in some of the canals should be diluted and discharged to sea,
leading to a general lmprovement in water quality in the canals. During this initial
flushing phase, there could be a potential environmental health risk ro people bathing
in Stann Creek and along the shore.
In the longer term, the opening up of new canals, and greater inter-connection
between canals should reduce the concentration of pollutants in them, but may
increase the load of sewage and nutrients discharged to the coastal waters. The
potential impacts on coastal waters would be relatively local and would not affect the
sea grass beds and coral reefs which lie several kilometres offshore. The broader issues
of source control in the light of suspected evidence of eutrophication of coastal
svstems should be taken account of in future plannmg and environmental monitoring
programmes, but the incremental effects of the proposed drainage changes are not
considered to be significant to the coastal and marine ecosystem.
The main concem reg-arding the coastal environment is related to the maintenance of
flow from outfalls. Several of these are known to block with sediment, and navigation
into Stann Creek is known to be difficult at times, requiring licensed sand removal.
Data on the sediment load of Stann Creek, deposition rates and actual volumes of sand
dredged are not available. Dredging is proposed for the outlets as part of the works to
keep them open, in preference to training structures which would interfere with
longshore drift.
Another potential impact of the operation of the scheme mav be the gradual
deposition of sediment in the interconnected canal systems from material transported
bv Stann Creek. This potential impact is considered in more detail in the Engineering
Report. No information on suspended sediment concentrations in Stann Creek or
sedimentation rates in the canals were found.
Belize Citv, like Dangriga, is built on a low lying delta and is drained by a number of
creeks and inter-connected canals. In Belize City sedimentation rates in the canals
system have been calculated based on the comparison of surveyed cross sections in
Do- No C F- C D.t, Me :999 96
F \Ue\RAncrnrt7 AsscoD~rrc\ Pro ecM,I o\ thupbotfpn    do:



August 1999 with the as-built drawings for the renovated canals dating from the mid
1990s. The results provide average sedirnentation rates in different canals varying from
0.02m/vr to 0.4m/vr Some of the variability is due to sedimentation hot spots within
the canal system, and five of the eleven canals surve-ed have average sedimentation
rates less than 0.05m/yr.
In Dangriga, the ingress of sediment into the canal system would be partiallv offset by
closing the penstocks on the canals during high flows in Stann Creek, particuiarlv as
higher sediment loads are associated with high discharge. This however depends on
someone closing the penstocks at the appropriate time. Related to this problem, is the
issue of increased flood risk for residents resulting from increased inter-connectedness
of the canal and creek system. Provided that the penstocks are closed, there should be
no increase in flooding risk.
Increasing the inter-connections of the canals and outfalls to the sea, will permit more
solid waste, which is tipped illegally into the canals, to float to the amenity areas on the
beaches.
Tlhe proposals involve increasing the storage of stormwater within the town canal
svstem. This may marginally increase the availability of potential habitats for
mosquitoes during the wet season. However, given the already extensive areas of
canals and swamps, this effect is not considered to be significant.
The construction of the proposed drainage sub-projects is not expected to impact
upon the archaeological record. No archaeological sites were identified during
walkover surveys.
10.3.2              Pbase I Works
The Phase I works provides an initial linking up of] ohn Creek, North Stann Creek and
Havanna Creek, by improving the John Creek Canal, Penn Street Canal and Havana
Creek Canal, together with the construction of two new penstocks at the mouths of
Penn Street Canal and Havana Creek Canal onto North Stann Creek and localised
dredging of the outfalls.
Construction of these schemes, more or less simultaneously, would require an
estimated 60 HGV movements per day, or about one vehicle an hour, to deliver
Doc N. 0 R C D-t, Mn 199 97
F \WVXEn%Fm-etr. A.-_,oe5thwltor\m_Fo.o



material and remove wastes over a sustained period of several months. The volume of
construction traffic could be reduced by phasing some of the works within the overall
construction period for Phase I.
Direct access to the Penn Street and John Creek Canals can be provided via the Stann
Creek Vallev Road and Ecumenical Drive. While this would keep construction traffic
out of the town, it would direct traffic passed the main school in Dangriga and through
outlying residential areas. Havana Creek could be accessed on the west side via the
Stann Creek Valley Road, Ecumenical Drive and side roads to residential areas, or on
the east side via the town centre.
The enlargement of the John Creek Canal will result in the loss of mangrove in the
lower 590m of the creek.
10.3.3              Phase IS Works
The Phase II Works link Havana Creek with a new outfall to the south of Dangriga by
constructing the Sabal Street Canal, and lower 44Om of the Lakeland Canal. The
northern half of Sabal Street Canal would be an open lined drain, in order to rminimise
land-take through a built up residential area. The southem half would be an unlined
drain, with flood embankments along part of that length. All of the lower Lakeland
Canal will require flood embankments on either side of the canal.
Construction of the Sabal Street Canal will cause disturbance to residents given the
close proximity of housing to the drain. Stann Creek Road crosses the Sabal Street
Canal, and there is access to several points along the canal, via the local road system.
However, access along the canal only occurs on a short section. It may be necessary to
transfer materials and spoil in small dump trucks along the canal, with materials loaded
off or onto larger HGVs at road access points. These activities will add to the
congestion on the local residential access roads.
Excavation of the Lakeland Canal would have little effect on housing as it is located in
a rural area. Access is provided via the Stann Creek Road and Jetty Pier Road.
Following vegetation clearance, the contractor may build up the embankments first to
provide access for plant to excavate the channel. The embankments would be 5m wide
on the north side of the Canal and 3m wide on the south side. These embankments
will not be available for general public use nor for traffic.
Doc N. O Rut C Date Ma- 1999  98
F- We\Enro-mmt;A c. : P o!c t\.l\thb .p\ Rrvot \F.._N-.dc c



Construction of the lower reach of the Lakeland Canal would require the clearance of a
working width some 25m wide, resulting in the loss of about I ha of basin mangrove.
WZhile this area is not significant at the national scale, nor in the context of the extent
of mangroves around the Gra Gra Lagoon, there are implications for the conservation
and management of the remaining mangrove.
A lor of the land on the southern outskirts of Dangriga, and along the sea front of the
Gra Gra Lagoon, appears to have been subdivided for land development (see Section
14). The clearance of mangrove on the edge of town for this scheme, may induce
further clearance for private development.
The material excavated along the lower Lakeland Canal would probably be unsuitable
for reuse in land raising as it would be very wet and contain large quantities of tree
roots and other organic matter. Some of the timber could be salvaged and used, for
exarnple as construction props. However there are requirements to obtain pernits for
both clearance of mangroves and commercial use of timber.
1O.3.4              Phase II Work,
The Phase III Works involve upgrading and excavating an outer ring of canals
(Melinda Road Canal, the remainder of Lakeland Canal and Abogaldes Street Canal)
and providing improved street drainage in the town centre (St Vincent Street Drain
and Commerce Street Drain), The improvements to the outer ring of canals will
increase connections between John Creek Canal, Stann Creek Canal and Havana Canal.
Commnerce Street and St Vincent Street are the two main-cornmercial streets in
Dangriga. Construction of street drains will create a nuisance for occupiers of
residential and comnmercial properties, residents, and road users. It will be necessarv to
restrict vehicular access during construction and reroute local traffic. Traffic
bottenecks could occur at the two bnrdge sites due to the limited number of Creek
crossings. Tne presence of open excavations during construction in a built up area will
also present a security hazard for pedestrians, cvclists and other vehicle travellers.
Construction traffic would add to the general traffic congestion, with a total estimated
1462 HGV movements over the construction period, estimated at about 8 per day
(Appendix E).
3ac N. O F@t O -C Mr 1997 99?
FAW,'\E--ml nltFocsiwpPeotFua_o.o



The southern end of St Vincent Street can be accessed by the Stann Creek Road and
Havana Street. Altematve access could be provided along Ecumenical Road and Penn
Road and then one of the main roads into the town centre, such as Melinda Road or
Cemetery Road. This would add to the construction traffic using Ecumenical Road to
access the Melinda Road Canal or Abogaldes Street Canal construction sites.
The Lakeland Canal and Abogaldes Street Canal are located along the boundaries of
the main high school in Dangriga. Construction activities could cause disturbance
during class time, and provide a hazard to schoolchildren walking to and from school.
It may be necessarv to restrict construction traffic or certain activities during termn
time, or at least when the school children arrive at or leave the school.
Tlhe excavation of the Melinda Road Canal would result in the clearance of about 0.9ha
through swamnp and transitional mangrove habitat where Morelet's crocodile has been
found. The realignment of the remainder of the Lakeland Canal will result in further
loss of basin mangrove estimated at 1 ha. As for Phase II, these losses have potential
impacts on induced developed into the mangrove, and the public perception of the
importance of conserving the mangrove.
Table 10.4 Summary of the Evaluation of Potential Environmental Impacts
eter       Impact                                              Evaluation of dte Potential Impacts
Type    Magnitude   Direct .   Duration   Avoidable   Irreversible
(- or-)             Indirect
-aity      Elevztcd levels of dust in the air during     L-M         D          T          No           No
construction
L.and-take dunngconstrucuon          -                    D          P          No          Yes
Improve development potential and land  +      L          D          P          NA          NA
values after constructuon
nd         Quames                                         L          D          T          No           Yes
SoLl erosion dunng construction               L-M         D          T          No           Yes
'ge        Alter the phlnform of narural or semi-  NS
natural streams during construction
Bank erosion dunng construction of            L-M         D          7         Partly        Yes
unlined channels and outfalls
DO- N. O Rc C, D-  M=, 1999 100
F\\'E 1 ::irrm,enta. Ass,sr :\Pro,.e \thbos,\R.rper,\IFUIissNoe.OC



meter          Impact                                                       Evaluation of the Potential Impacts
Type      Magnitude   Direct -    Duration    Avoidable    Irreversible
or -)                 Indirect
Change water quality due to accidental    NS
spilliages dunng construction
Increase fiood nsk in natural drainage               L-M            D           T            Yes            No
Induce channel change after               NS
construction
estnai         Loss of in-stream flora and fauna dunng   NS
.ogy           construction
Loss of fioodplain flora                               L            D           P            No             Y'es
Damage to, or loss or, rare or                         H            D           P            No             Yes
endangered habitats or species
D,srurbancr to wildlife dunng                          L            D           T             No             No
construction
Indirect effects of poor water qualsst    NS
from construction activities
indirect effects from changes in flow     NS
regime, channel stability or water qualiry
ine and        Effects on cntical habitats (reefs,        NS
stal           seagrass, mangroves)
ironment
Change in nearshore water quality         NS
Dredgingma.ntenance impacts on                         L             I           T            Yes            No
shoreline
Impacts on fishenes                       NS
an             Disrurbance to residents dunng                         M-H           D            T           Partiy          No
ironment       construcuon
Disruption to traffic dunng construction              M-H           D            T           Partly          No
Visual Impact                                           L            D           P            No             Yes
Employment and the local economy                      M-H            D           T            NA             NA
an Drainage    Reduce urban flooding                       =           M             D           P            NA             NA
Reduce flood damage to property            +           M             D           P            NA             Yes
ironmoensal    Health and safery of constructson                       M             D           T            Yes             No
Lith            workforce
D- N.O Lt: C Du,s My 1999 10 1
F tWe   aarsmeni  sser \snesWiosbaip\Lpssi\Psov.der



meter           Impact                                                           Evaluation of the Potential Impacts
Type       Magnitude    Direct -    Duration   | Avoidabie    irreversible
( '-or-)                  indirect
Health and safety of residents and                         L             D            T              es             No
pedestrians during construction
Reduce disese vecto- habLtats               NS
ural            Potental loss of or damage to                NS
tage            archaeological remauns dunng excavaton
Do- N. 0 c. 0 Date )e 1999 102
F \ a/Ee osso orrs AuuctP0e5Werlp\FpsEziNvd 



. t



11                   Punta Gorda
11.1                 Existing Conditions
77.77 1Location and setting
Punta Gorda is the most southerlv of the six towns, located some 150km to the south
of Dangriga on the Gulf of Honduras in the southem distrct of Toledo (Figure 11.1).
It had a population of about 5010 in 1998.
17.1.2               Coastal and Marine Enironmeni
Punta Gorda lies in a small bav fronted bv coarse gravel beaches and a flat muddy
foreshore. In some locations the foreshore is suffering badly from erosion. There are
several sections of coastal protection works in various states of disrepair, and the
coastal road, which lies very close to the top of the foreshore in some sections, is being
undemined in places by coastal erosion. The land rises to the south of the town
presenting soft cliffs which are slowly eroding.
Joe Creek delivers fine sediment to the coast, but this is not considered to be sufficient
to sustain the foreshore. Local people reported that the coastline has eroded some tens
of metres in living memory. The erosion problems in this area are not caused by
interruption of sediment supplv, as in Dangriga, and are more likely to result from
changes in the frequency and severity of storms or sea level rise.
As with Dangriga, dense seagrass areas have been mapped near to shore (CZMP 1995).
The town is within a few kilometres of the proposed protected areas system at Port
Honduras, and further away, are located the Paynes Creek and Deep River Forest
protected areas (Figure 2.1).
71.71.3              Topo gra.pb
Punta Gorda is situated in a rocky bay with the land rising steeply inland. The northern
part of the town lies on more gently sloping land, rising to an elevation of about 10
masl near the airstrip. To the south the land rises steeply over the first 100-200 m,
reaching an elevation of about 5-6 masl along Main Street and Back Street, and 10 masl
near the hospital. The land then falls before rising again towards the airstrip. Isolated
limestone hills lie to the west of the town.
Doc N. C K,o. R C D-t MN -199 103
F \W \Emosnlr Ascsnr\P ,cc=\rhcup \R,po,t 1FmDo.No0 d~oc



1 7 .1 .4           DraDnasge
Joe Creek flows to the sea on the northern side of Punta Gorda and two magoon
drains, which seem to have been developed from natural channels, flow through the
town itself.
The North East Magoon Drain is a small canalised course which passes through
relatively denselv populated residential areas. It starts near the air strip and flows in an
easterly direction to an outfall on Front Street, some 50 m to the north of the
intersection of North Street and Front Street. Immediately upstream of the outfall, a
commercial propertm has been extended over the drain, restricting discharge to sea
during heavy rainfall.
The South West Magoon Drain, flows in a southerly directon along the westem
extremity of town before tuming to the south east to discharge to sea. The upper
reaches of the drain are ill defined initially, but soon followu what is probably a
canalised course. Dow,nstream of the penultimate bridge the channel flows through
swamp forest and adopts a more natural, meandering channel, with very low bed
slopes. The lower part of the course lies well awa, from residential areas.
During a recent visit to Punta Gorda (August 1999), the Town Board was constructing
road drains along selected sections of residential roads in the town.
The PHI collected water samples from five locations in Punta Gorda and analysed
them for faecal coliforms. Tne results are given in Table 11.1 below.
Table 11.1      Bacteriological quality of drainage water - Punta Gorda
Location  Description of Site                        Faecal
No.                                                  coliforms/lOOml
I          North East Magoon Drain -1                               0
2          North East Magoon Drain - 301                            0
3          South West Magoon Drain - 302                            0
4          North East Magoon Drain - 2                            200
5          South West Magoon Drain - 303                          300
Do- N. D Rvr C DuttM 1999 104



11.1.5              TerrestrzalEcolog
Most of the narural vegetation in and around Punta Gorda has disappeared or at least
been strongly impacted as a result of human activirv. The remaining fragments
comprise Seasonal Swamp Forests of Southem and Central Belize (typical variant) and
Lowland Broadleaf Wet Forests over poor or sandy soils (Iremonger & Brokaw, 1995)
The Seasonal Swamp Forest is impacted to some extent by shifting cultivation, but is
more or less intact, and appears to have high biodiversity. This particular habitat is
found along the magoon and is characterisuc of permanently wet and occasionally
mundated ground. It is well represented in protected areas in Belize, amounting to 29%
coverage. The Seasonal Swamp Forest gives way tO the poorer Lowland Broadleaf Wet
Forest. Further details of these habitats are provided in Appendix B.
The ecological survey of the Seasonal Swarnp Forest around the lower course of the
South West Magoon Drain identified a species of plant listed in Schedule II of CITES,
namely Zamzapica. This plant is only known in Belize from a few specimens, but
nevertheless is known to be 'sought' illegally.
During discussions with two local NGOs, the local ESTAP office and TIDE (Toledo
Institute for Development and Environment), both organisations commented on the
presence of Black Howler Monkeys in the swamp forest around the South West
Magoon Drain. This species of monkey is listed as vulnerable by IUCN.
i1.1.6              Cultural Herzl q
Punta Gorda was settled by Carib immigrants from the Spanish Honduras. In 1745
Jesuit Fathers established a mission station. A church was built and houses sprung up.
In the course of time, the town was surveyed and rapidly grew, until, in 1882 it was
selected as the centre for Toledo District. The unofficial Garifuna name for Punta
Gorda is "Payn". Any cultural heritage value associated with Punta Gorda is expected
to be related to the colonial period.
11.1.7              Urban Enz'rrnmcnt and E.%pansion
The older part of Punta Gorda is located along the seafront over a distance of about
1.5 krr, and extending some 750 m inland. Civic and commercial buildings and the
main market are located around a triangle of open space and Main Middle Street and
Front Street. The hospital and cemetery are situated on the south side of town.
DOC N. O R- O D.. MA 1999 105
F \W\  - - -:l



Punta Gorda airstrip is situated on the northern fringes of the urban area and acts as a
barrier to development in that direction. The swamp forest to the south and a
Garifuna settlement reserve to the south west prohibit urban expansion in these
directions. The town is at present developing to the west and north west. In particular,
a number of Mava families have constructed homes in an area known an Indianville on
the outskirts of Punta Gorda around the upper reaches of the South West Magoon
Drain.
17.1.8             Endronmental Health
The number of rnalaria cases in the Toledo district in 1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999
ganuarv to August only) were 203, 109, 70 and 32 respectively. In 1996, Punta Gorda
town had the third highest number of cases in Toledo District. There were ten cases of
dengue fever in 1998 for the whole of the District with two positive cases identified in
Punta Gorda town. ULV spraving is carried out on a routine basis in Punta Gorda.
Larviciding is undertaken once every 6 months.
11.2                Proposed Programrne of Works
The schedule of works proposed for Punta Gorda is summarised in Table 11.2 and
located on Figure 11.2. Further details are provided in the Engineering Report.
Table 11.2      Schedule of Works for Punta Gorda
Description of Work                                     ]      Culvert Requirements
Phase I
North East Magoon Drain - Renovate existing drain.        6 No. box culverts.
Ch 0-194 - Lined blockwork open drain with struts.
Ch 208-347 - Lined blockwvork covered drain.
Phase II
South West Magoon Drain - Renovate existing drain.        7 No. box culverts.
Unlined trapezoidal open drain.
Total drain length 1200 m.
Dredge outfall locally at the end of the South West Magoon
Do: N. C RP. C ODe: May 1999 106
F UI;t W\roF



11.3                Potential Enviror.rnental Impacts
OvernAeuz
The potential environmental impacts associated with the programme of works are
summarised in Table 1 1.3 and discussed below. Specific issues relating to the phasing
of works is discussed in the following sections.
Overall, the scale of works proposed in Punta Gorda is relatively small, and the
potential adverse impacts on people during construction would be low. There would
also be some disturbance to traffic, and temporarv road closures during the
construction of road culverts.
Construction of the proposed sub-projects would require estimated inputs of 9,140
blockwork bricks, 416m3 of concrete (cement, sand and aggregate), and 43t of
reinforcement. The aggregate and blockwork would probably be sourced locally, while
the cement and reinforcement would be imported. The schemes would also require the
disposal of some 17,740m3 of excavated spoil and some 1,500m3 of dredged material.
NIost of the waste material arises from the Phase II works.
Preliminarv estimates of the number of lorrv movements give 4 vehicle movements per
day for the Phase I works and 24 vehicle movements per day for the Phase II works.
Several sections of the Southem Highway from Dangriga to Punta Gorda are currendy
under renovation and have not at this stage been metalled. The road is passable to
HGVs, but joumey times are slow with a top speed of about 40mph. The road also
passes through a number of Maya villages. The last few kilometres of the Southem
Highway, and the main access into Punta Gorda is a metalled road capable of carrying
HGVs. The number of vehicles required to deliver imported materials to Punta Gorda
is a fraction of those quoted above (see Appendix E), and is not expected to add
significantly to the current traffic on the Southem Highway or the impact upon road
safety in the settlements along the Highway.
The impact of construction traffic on the local road network within Punta Gorda
during the Phase I works would be small, given the low number of vehicles and ready
access to the main road out of town. The disruption from construction traffic would
be greater for the Phase II works, due to the larger number of vehicles and the longer
route through town to arrive at the construction site. Congestion could be eased by
DocN O RP C i)-s m i599 107
F  : iE   rrmE;Aesc ioleif up\Ro  iFn!No.o



rerouting traffic, given the grid layout of the town. Consequentlv the potential impact
of construction traffic on other road users and residents are considered to be low to
moderate and temporary.
Construction of the works would provide some benefits to the local economy, through
the award of contract to a Belizean contractor, with a total constructon value
estimated at l.5BzSM, with 0.5BzSM in Phase I. There would also be some
opportunities for local employment and provision of services during construction.
The potential impacts on archaeological sites is not thought to be significant as there
was no evidence of any archaeological sites or artefacts in the vicinity of the works.
Construction of the Phase II works will have a low, permanent, adverse effect on the
river morphologv and a high, permanent adverse impact on the ecology of the lower
reach of the SWE magoon and on the surrounding swamp forest.
Once constructed, the proposals should provide relief from flooding through
residential areas.
The proposals are not expected to have significant effects on the coastal environrment,
disease vectors or the need for vector control
1.3.2               Phase I Works
Tlhe construction of the NE magoon drain will mainly impact on nearby residents and
road users. The magoon crosses a number of developed residential blocks, passing in
between existing properties. There is access to the magoon at several locations, but no
permanent access along the drain itself. Materials delivered to various points along the
magoon drain will have to be moved along the drain to the construction site possibly
by hand or using small sized plant. Given the proximity of the drain to existing
housing, including some properties which are located alongside, and even straddle the
drain, there will inevitably be some disturbance to residents.
There is good access for construction traffic to the magoon drain, and the number of
HGVs required to deliver material and dispose of waste is small. The magoon drain
does cross the northem end of several important commercial streets in Punta Gorda
Doc NoO  F- C D.,.: My 1999 108
F \W,\n- W                   \



where local traffic can be expected to be relatively higher. However the grid road
svstem allows for easy rerouting of traffic.
The lower section of the drain will be rerouted along North Street to a new outfall, and
the existing section will be left as it stands. It is proposed to incorporate the
construction of the new outfall into a separate contract for the renovation of the sea
defences which is also being managed by the MoW.
The improvement of the NE magoon will bring relief from flooding to an appreciable
number of houses and several comrnmercial properties located along the drain.
11.3.3              Phase II Works
The construction of the SW magoon drain will cause temporary nuisance to residents
located along the upper part of the drain and road users. More importantly it will have
permanent impacts on the geomorphology and ecology of the lower reach of the drain.
T'he upper part of the SW magoon flows through moderately dense residential areas.
Again there is access to the drain at crossing points, but only limited vehicular access
along the drain. Consequently, construction activities will cause some disturbance to
residents.
The irnpacts of construction traffic can be expected to be higher in Phase II, given the
increased number of vehicles and the need to traverse the town to reach the
construction site.
The proposals to straighten the lower reach of the SW magoon drain is required to
provide a steeper channel slope to improve the evacuation of floodwaters from higher
up the magoon. The existing channel from the penultimate bridge to the sea is about
1.29 km long. The channel would be straightened by smoothing out some of the larger
meanders, to a new length of about 1.15 km, a difference of about 10% in length. The
channel would also be widened and deepened to increase capacity. The new channel in
the lower reach would be between 14-16.5m wide, amounting to about 1.8 ha. This
compares to the existing channel which is 5-8m wide, covering about 0.8 ha.
Straightening the lower river could initiate channel instability in the future if the flow is
sufficient to erode the river banks, with the channel reverting to a more sinuous
Do, No G .',': D.,t Mo 1995 109
F \W,\0.o nsormas; so,o ns XPoet\tll\eps\:w_ to



course. Improvements to the channel could also decrease the frequency of
overbanking and hence the hvdrology and ecology of the surrounding floodplain.
Improvements to the lower channel would result in a net clearance of about lha of
swarnp forest, or about 7% of the 14 ha of forest in the vicinity. This loss of habitat is
not significant in national terms, as this habitat type is well represented in protected
areas. However, the loss of a corridor of swamp forest could potentiallv result in the
loss of specimens of the rare plant Za.,riapicta and impact upon the habitat of Black
Howler Monkevs.
Vegetation clearance and excavation along the lower channel would increase the risk of
soil erosion, while using plant in the wet botomland would compact the soil. These
risks would be reduced by confining excavation of the lower channel to the drv season.
In-channel excavation and dredging the outfall would result in temporarv reductions in
water quality due to turbidity. The indirect effects on marine ecology would be limited
in area and short tern. Most of the aquatic flora and fauna in the existing channel
would be lost, but the ecology would recuperate over several seasons.
Excavation of the magoon drain and dredging at the outlet will result in the removal of
about 17,850m3 of sediment. This material may not be suitable for reuse, as it may
contain large amounts of organic material such as litter and tree roots, and should be
disposed of to the Municipal waste disposal site.
Table 113          Summary of the Evaluation of Potential Environmental
Impacts
meter      Impact                                            Evaluation of the Potential Impacts
Type    Magnitude [ Direct -   Duration   Avoidable   Irreversible
(+ or -)           Indirect
,ualitv     Eievated levels of dust in the air dunng     L          D         T          No          No
construction
ILand-take during construction               L         0          P         No          Yes
Improve development potential and land       L         D     _
vaLues after construcion
Doc No C R- 0 D  5 MF 1t999 110
F   l    nsi A



mineter      | Impact                                                        Evaluation of the Potenual Impacts
TypV       Magnude    Direct -    Duration         Avoidable    Irreversible
(- or                    Indirect
sand            Quarries                                    =           L             D            T            No             Yes
logy                                                                                                     -
Soil erosion dunng construction                        L-M            D                         No             Yes
mnage           Alter the planform of natural or semi-      -L                        D            p                            No
natural strcams dunngconstructaon
Bank erosion during construction of                     L             D           T            Partly          Yes
unlined channels and outfalis
Change water qualiry due to accidental     NS
spillages duning construction
Increase fiood nsk in natural drainage     NS
:nduce channel change after                             L             I           P            Partly          Yes
consuction
restr-al        Loss of n-stream flora and fauna dunng                  TL            D            T             No             No
logy            constructor
Loss of floodplain flora                                              D            P            No             Yes
Disturbance to wildlife dunng                           L             D            T            No              No
cons tnctior
indirect effects of poor water quality     NS
from constructon activities
Indsrect effects from changes in flow      NS
regme, channel stabdlry or water quahty
Loss of rsre or endangered species                       H            D            P           Pastly           No
stal and        Direct and indirect effects of proposed     MS
-ine            works on wster quality, critical habitats,
sronment        fishenes and beach stabilitv
an              Disrurbance to residents dunng                           L             D            T           Partly           No
ironment        construction
Disruption to traffic during construction                L            D            T            Partly          No
Visual Imoarct                                -                        DP                        No             Yes
Employmen: and the local economy                         L            D            T
an Drainage    Reduce urban flooding                         +           M             D            P            Yes             Yes
Reduce flood damage to property             _            M             D            P            Yes            Yes
Des N. 0 7t-v O D.ti Mey :99 111
F \We\Eneurme nei  As~see\Pen \eso\rbss\Raeoo\Fusi_Nae.doc



etetr          Impact                                                         Evaluation of thc Potenual Impacts
Type      Magnitrude    Direct -    Duration       Avoidable    IfTeversible
or                    Indirect
ronmrrntal     Health and safety of constuction                         L             D            T            Yes             No
th            sworkforce
Health sand safetv of residents and                      L            D            T             Yes             No
oedestnans dunng constructon
Reduce disease vector habitats             NS
iral           Potential loss of or damage to              NS
Lage           arch2cological remains dunng exc2vittion
Do: N.O RP- 0 Dt,, M. 1995 112
F \We\exvrrorm sessi.e\bup\  prrX_r  o



12                   Mitigation Plan
A general plan for mitigation measures is proposed in Table 12.1. This addresses the
generic issues which are likely to arise in all the study towns. Specific measures are also
presented for each of the towns in Table 12.2.
The mitigation plan identifies the adverse environmental impacts, the mitigation
measures proposed to arneliorate the impacts, the residual impacts once mnitigation is in
place, the cost of the mitigation measure, phasing, the bodv responsible for
implementation and requirements for training or human resources,
The mitigation plan will be implemented over four phases
-   detailed design - Phase I: all mitigation measures related to the modification of
the proposed design
pre-tendering - Phase II: inclusion of clauses to mitigate environmental impacts
durmg construction which are the responsibility of the contractor
c construction - Phase III: implementation of all mitigation measures to reduce
environmental impacts due to construction activities
*   post Commissioning - Phase IVS: implementation of all inspection, monitoring
and maintenance requirements.
Do, N. C he- O D.,, May 1999 113
F \W -E--



Table 12.1                 (Generic Mitigation Plan
Parameter                     Impact                                               Mitigalion Measure                        Rcsidual Impact                                                       Impletmentation Isslers
Stage      ResrpnSlbiity                                  'lCaitiiig /
I lurnan
Re-souces
Air Quality                  Elevated levels of dust ii tile       I .   (arefilt excavation grld handliig of spoil          Sortne inieased duist levels will lhe          II         Design ltigiicr to irnc h d, qprpopri.te    N/A
Air irming Colistruction             2.   ID)ampen dirt access roads                           in-evitlble                                               clatses in) tle coitracrt loCidorleils.
Go.ortrc.-tor to ilimpleniesit 'good
housckeepiing' ineas,, res
(:Cioupli,olcc tc, l.. c.i.is..r.  I-y lie
Smipervising lFingintc
land                         Land take during constriction         1.    Negotiate a right of way or ptirchise with          N/A                                            if        (Gol                                            N/A
the owrnec or occiupier
Soilq and Geology            Degptdotion ofqiiatry sites eg        I.    Srlect quarries whiich have beet approved           Fxcavationm of qimarsy sites with redtsircsl    II        Designi F./giiicii to iicliidc gppurlpriaft    N/A
ecology, Archaeology                       by the MoW, and are niot known to he                imlpact oil the surrounding                               clauses iri thm  Corut   t dsa-  lcmtSt
associated with Maya sites or inportant            environment.                                    ll        (risitractor to coniply wit ts h
ecologictl hsb,itats.                                                                                        cosConitshioss of the coitract ails1 cliechkcil
2.    Obtain p;ermits for new borrow sites And                                                                      by the Suispervising Figimeerr
restore them after tise in cotnpliance with
the Ipgislatiosm
Soil erosion fiorn spoil             1.    Undertake weather sensitive conistruction           Soule erosion is inevitable dirinig            If         I)esignl l7igiseer to inshide alipropi isate    N/A
stockpiles and cleared latid               activities in the dry season                        rainfall. I lowever thie works are                        clarises itn ther coitract docimrients.
2     Locate stockpiles away from  step slopes           grnersIly strnall scale, or in Dangriga                    Contra,sor tc) ile 5 1         o
and water couirses                                 locatesd on low-lyitig latud, atidi mitilikely  hl ousckrarpin Sc, is ipheinngo
to resuilt in siginificanit itopacts.
Couipliagnrc to be ensiured by the
Silpervisilig Fnsguitrec
Drainage                     flank erosion disritig                1.    Wh1ere possible undertake earthworks                lime works are stnill scale and often          II         D)esign Engsiner to inicllude apprilopriaot     N/A
construction of unlined and                 dtirirng the slry season                           located itn low lying areas, atid are                      clauises in tle coroitract lormil,ill s.
lined chainnlcs                      2.  C(omplete short sections of the woik s at             uinlikely to restilt in significant harik       ll         Cocntractor to i-pleni sit gpodl
tiltie to redtice bhnk expostire                   erosion.                                                   liousekerpinii  tmreasiirces
(Conmlplianrc to be ensulredl by
Slupervising lFriginerr
DSi los ti    O 0  this Wtay tr9ec   114
F \W-\F-s-mo-ereal Ansrmusserssi\t'oirrui\tbop\RFr.Po,ri-nj.N
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :



Parlmeter                    ImPaCt                                               MitigatiOn Measmre                    RjeSidr2al Impacts                                                        Implemernst2tin Iqsses
Stag e  | Responsibility                               |fAining /
I                                              | I lttoan
.. . It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~esourtces
Change water qtulity (Idc to         1.    Stockp,ile agrefete, cemnent, spoil, engine         G;ood housekeeping toec:sures shoild           it         Design Ftiginier to invlude Alpproptinte    N/A
accidental spillages during                oilc atid any other naterals sway froiri            prevent acciletal sldlages                               clani e s in tihe co-tr-at docu -ent s
ronstroction,                              droitis arecl water cotirses witliiri  bua a ded                                                             Contractor to im lplement ggood
tiotisekeepiiig' mieasuires
2.    Change nTiachine antd ctlgine oil at depot or                                                                Comphatice to be eiisiired by
plant mnaintenance site located away fions                                                                   Sipervising Etigineer.
drains or watercolirses
Increased flood risk in natural      None                                                      li Orange Walk, the Dunn Street
drainage system                                                                                Drain will direct rnof[to thienner
swamp, Iocals should he disouriged
from developing thie area fiurther.
Ecology                      I ,nss of enrlangered habitats        I.    Obtain licences from  Forestty 1)e,partriient      'llie proposed schemes in D)aigciga            -I          Design Flgnrer ti) ir-liiie tappropriate      N/A
and floodplaiii flora                      lor altcration of tolalgrovc aind reuse of          and N-.ita Gorda will result iii sii-all                 i hlamiis ... th i- -iit  dra. . .t... .ril 1es
timber                                             losses of itlalgrove and swamrp forest.        fi         Corittartortolement clarms In the
2.    Fence off the working corridor                                                                               contract
3.    Minimise land take hy keepiig constniction                                                                   Comphlance to he elislierd Iy the
sctivities within the specified worknig width                                                                S,iinrvsioiig Emigmiier
4.    Where possible, mark largr tiers or stands
whiich should be preserver1 and miake mitlor
adjuistments to chainel alifginment
Distiurharie to wildlife during      No ttmitigation neasures proposed.                        [here will be temporary disttrhance to
corstruction                                                                                   wildlife.
Damage to, or loss of                I      V Where possible, identify rare plaunt             It omay riot be possible to avoihd a11 thie    II         Design FnXmg-tieer to ii ..nile, aupro.pr.ate  N/A
etdatgered species                         specimens within the working wirltli                rare specitirens, and trinslocation is tiot               clauises in the conltract uhiu-ililseilts
2.    Where possible, make minor ad1uustanents to    always sticeessftil. Coniseqcletutly there                    Contractor to iiilelielt   i irs iii the
alugomesit of canal                                tilay be losses of rare plants if they are     il         contract.
fourid within thie construction site.
3.    Where specimens wolild be lost diuring land                                                                  Compliance to he etisred hy tIle
clearance, relocate specitilcis to a safe                                                                   Suipctvissng Engineer
_ haven
Dor N.O R-o O D.,, tAy 1 999 115
F \W,\En-r -Wonenut Aie..r.n.\t'.onecis\itubnip\Rpoi\F,  LNrv dto



Parameter                        Impact                                                      Mitigation Meamitre                             Hesido2nl Inpacts                                                             lrriplemtntati.n  lNsser
Stage       Respnsibility                                        Training /
I Intiatnn
Rees,itret.
lrban IRI.nvitonment             Distil,bance to t  dent                    t.    l'rparn. a (Commtiturnicat .ins flrogralnnrn,e            Most residenits Welcornte improvemnnets              II1         Contractor to iFTnpIlenllrn t the nre2rSurc s.        N/A
during cornsttAction                      2.     InfonTl tine Iowrl Board 01d lo, Jal resindents           to tile drains, and wonilni be nreprated to                      Surpervisinng 1--nginrir  t,, resm,
of (te proposed constnictionr sclhiclilel and             accept a certairl level of distnnrbrar:e                        comTIpliaoce.
activitiens                                               dilninlg n:nc stinctiomn
3.    Set tip and nidvertise a prrocenhire tCn recrive
and deal witth comnplanints rtom local
residents
Disruptionni to traffic dnring            I -    ldttify the need for partial or corenplret                Mnst residenits welcome imuprovent rntc             II          Desigrn  lrngntreer to include appnopniate            N/A
constroction                                     road c lorircs.                                          to the draitis, and woutld he prepared to                        clanses in  eh- contractl nocnrnrTentts
2.    Liaise with tine 'rown Bloard annd police                 ac-cept a certain level of ilistinhthainnrcorr,erpeun-i cie  i   h
filnrirpg cornstnniction. As mniany of tine         IlIl         ConItrct
tnwrits are laid ontt in a gsid patterrn,
4.     Provide temporary access to properties                    iec  shinnilul         ra lIn      n     n                      Copirni tin I    o i ly
inn firrding alternative rotites.                                SrnipervisinpIg lEonnn-rrt
S.    Advertise road clostrres
6.    Clmsti off roads and provide detour sigris
Vistial impact                            1.    Keep tine constrnctiort site tidy                          lliC vinilnn    impact olsonine of thn e   W cw                  D)esipni Enigitee r to include appero;prinar         N/A
2.     Itiplerntier  lindscapning gnidrei-s in                  stnicturres will be (lifticihlt to rilitigate,                   clauses ni tine Crnitract docinilerlntS
contract docttnents, eg reseedirge                        for examriple the two new inntflli)h inn                        Contractor t, inlpfrInrit clssis
San Iiacie /sanit  Flena  I'iSewlierr,            Ml            otatrtnii1lenentclistn 
the works arr geertarlly of a scale to
callse little in,ipact.                                          C:omipliricre to be ensured hy tIe
Supricvisinig Enfgineer
Eo- Nt O 0 F. O Dt, Ma, t1999 116
F JWe\t vnnuennut Annniumen\r\oncui\rit\PtrOii\Fli-t4N



Iarar. eter                    Impact                                                 Mitigatio,n Meacslre                        Residtual Inipacts                                                       Implementation Iqssues
Stage      Responsibility                                    I raing /
_lesoures,q
E.nvironmentatl                I  altli ontI sofety of                3.    l'repare a he alis aRld safety plan to inchide         Ilsere is always risk associated with          If         I)es,gss Eng[ineer to include appropriate         N/A
I lealth                       constniction workforce                       glidlelmics  irt w.rkers for sr a  rerustnictioi      constnictirsT projects. 'niese can be                       clauises irs the contract rldocriumsents.
practices, emergency proceduires and                 oiriniriiised throuigh careful planning                     Contractor to implement clatises in the
mnedical facilities                                  aird adlherence to good colisistictiOni          II         c,onitact
4.    Where possible excavate drainis siod handle           prar-tices.                                                 Coiuip1,iai9Ce to be ensured by tIhe
spoil by unachile. Workers in contact with           Tile reuase of spoil ui.st be dlon, in Siipetvn..  p l-.rnner
drainage water arid sediiments niiist wear           suclh a way os to mininiise adldhiticnrial
protective clothinifg.                               elivirouimental impacts at lie receiving
5.    Dispose of1excess spoil from existing drainis    site,
containiisg solid waste at tile mui1cipal
waste disposal site
6.    Identify lan(l tises where clean spoil car be
u,sed in laud raisinig eg school grouinds,
playing fields, anienity opern space. l'lace
the nuaterial on site atid seed with grass.
I lealth an1d safety of residents      I.    Provide adequate access to paveriseTits arid         'tiere is always risk aissociated with            if          [)esigii  eIgineer to iiiclde appropriate        N/A
2nd pedestrianis                             properties                                            conistorci on projects '11hese ran  re                       clanises in the contract dwrie-rie ts.
2.    Minimise length of excavatioii opern at any           liiiriniunised throuigh carefil plairiing                   Contractor to imnplemnernt claises in the
one, tinie                                           andI adherence to good ronsristoctiorn            l          coistract.
nne tmie                               ~~~~~~~~~practices.crtrc
3.    hIleritify open excavat,ons at night eg with                                                                       Cosiplsa,rse to be erinsiceu hy the
ilulminations, relIcr ve rgIits, barriers                                                                         Suplv Ising Eiigioeer
4.    Where works are located tiear schools,
avoid works during term  tirile, to Cease
activities when childrcrn travel to anid froni
schroot.
Cultural I l rritage         nIoss ofor danaige to                   1.    lake special care when excavating an                  It is nesary to nndertake f.rrhier               I I        Nee,h to -r,iinsrissiri s-p-aralr
archaeological remaains during                known  agrchae2ologIaC  areas.                       arclerlegseal shirlies before                                archaeolgrcal sindirus
constrtiction                          2.    Report any finds to tIre Stipervisisig                conistosetion atid moorit  ronsr 0,iction                    Design  glVirirr tr, us.. rhuils apfr ....  ate
Engineer who will contact tIre Department                '.                            cses diittng  sx'2vit'On Theres c s        e..sriss In th rr trar t dl..r s.-.irws
ofArchaeolopy arirl aiclhaerlogist                     teritaml to dlaisage artefacts dnr ipriIg
conistrurction, but also potential to                        C;ontrartrrr is, ssr1l     t r  ariss sri the
recover thierti for rcsearc h and                           corstrai t
exhibition.                                                 tcssiplhina, i,r t1ie ersunres1 by the
Snipesvssi-sg Psigirr
F MF. .- O         A,a Mr IO"')117t 11r
F \v\nlomna   5reelllll\hupRpr\m-n   n



I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     o



13                 Institutional Issues
13.1               Overv4ew
The implementation of the proposed drainage sub-projects will involve the Ministry of
Works as the executing organisation, and the Departments of Environment and
Archaeology who have interests in ensuring that any environmental mitigation or
management plans proposed by the developer are implemented.
Once the drainage sub-projects have been built, the Town Boards assume
responsibility for maintenance and operation. On wider planning issues, mans of the
drainage problems have come about through the lack of planning. A number of
organisations are involved in town planning. Rural land zoning is the responsibility of
the Department of Physical Planning. Land subdivision is govemed by the Land
Utilisation Authority. Responsibility for land use zoning and approving buildng
permissions falls to the Town Boards in those towns which have been the subject of a
Town Planning Scheme Notice.
The following section outlines the responsibilities of the main institutions and
identifies institutional weaknesses which may affect the successful implementation,
operation and maintenance of this pro)ect.
13.2               Project Implementation
13.2.1             Ministy of Works
The MoW has responsibilities for, amongst other things, the construction, extension
and repair of drains in urban areas. The MoW has a central office in Belmopan and
local offices in the main towns in Belize. The local offices respond to requests from
the Town Board to undertake drainage works, which they do within their own budget
limitations. During the visits to the study towns, the local MoW offices were frequently
observed undertaking drainage improvement works.
For this project, the MoW intends to contract the construction works to Belizean
contractors and appoint a Supervising Engineer to oversee the implementation of the
project.
Do: N O F- . De M., 19 118



13.22               De'parlment of Enrirvnment
The DoE is responsible for implementing the EIA Regulations 1995 (see Section 3).
This involves deciding on the need for an EIA for projects, approving the Terms of
Reference, reviewing and approving Environmnental Impact Assessment Reports, and
ensuring that the mitigation measures are implemented.
The DoE would like to involve their staff in observing the implementation of the
mitigation and environmental management plans, but commented that thev lack staff
and other resources to do so. In a project such as this one, which affects six towns in
Belize, the DoE would be prepared to see other organisations undertake this role.
132.3               Deparfmenz ofA4n-r:aeo1ogy
The Department of Archaeology is concemed with the potential impacts of
construction activities on archaeological sites and antiquities. nit Archaeological
Commissioner has certain powers to control land operations in order to protect an
ancient monument or antiquity, and can halt construction works until an archaeological
survey is undertaken or require anv action to be taken which the Cornrnissioner deems
to be reasonable for the protection of the ancient monument or antiquiry.
The Department of Archaeology lacks the staffing and other resources to undertake
routine monitoring of construction works. This means the Depart.nent is reliant upon
contractors, landowners and others, to report finds to them during construction.
13.3                Post-Implementation
13.3.1              Town Boards
An evaluation of the institutional capacity of the Town Boards is provided in
Appendix D. The following section outlines the kev findings of this study, and the
implications for the maintenance of the drainage works once they have been built.
The Town Boards are responsible, amongst other things, for the clearance of
vegetation and removal of silt and other blockages in the drains. Consequently, once
the proposed drainage works have been constructed, they would be responsible for
their long term operation and maintenance.
DCIC ND O ii.. C D^r a* 1999 119
F \NYe sEnor=o! Arerut\Prosecs\ribuxp\Fost\Frr;z_Nos soc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
tt



Based on an estimate of the length of drains in each of the towns, the estimated labour
requirements to maintain the drains, and number of labourers emploved, it would seem
that all the towns have sufficient capacity to undertake basic maintenance.
Notwithstanding the above, it was evident from field visits that many of the drains
were not being maintained. This is partly attributed to the rapid turnover of labourers,
and the Town Boards try to 'ration' the work between a larger pool of labourers. This
does mean that sometimes the Boards are emploving inexperienced labourers or
labourers who are not fit enough to undertake the work. There is onlv one foreman
supervisor in each works department, and thev mav lack the training to understand
what is required to maintain the drains.
In the longer term, drainage maintenance may also be adverselv affected by further
deterioration of the works department trucks. Nearlv all of these trucks are at the end
of their economic life. However, the Town Boards lack capital to replace them and
have been refused loans from central government for truck replacement.
In Dangriga, the proposed schemes will introduce a new operational requirement for
the Town Boards, namely operating the penstocks manuaUy durng high flows in
North Stann Creek which they need to be fully aware of.
The Town Boards used to be responsible for both street cleaning and solid waste
disposal. The domestic waste collection services are in the process of being privatised
but not the collection of other forms of waste, or street cleaning activities. One
consequence of this is that the waste collection contractors may not clean up rubbish
which has fallen in the streets and the Town Boards will no longer be able to do so.
Any solid waste finding its way into the drains would probably not be removed until
the annual drain cleaning operation at the end of the dry season.
All the Town Boards are facing major problems in raising revenue and accumulating
capital. This could have significant impacts in the near future on the quality of services
provided bv them, including the maintenance of drains.
13.3.2              Housing and Plannin,g
Many of the drainage improvement works proposed in this project have become
necessar,v either because of inappropriate road layouts when development first
Do, N c O  o D.. M. 19S5 120
F \ Nv  Eu nnet:Aasnn\rlc  wo \Th p   t Frn _Nc doc



occurred, or because individual plot holders have subsequentlv damaged the drainage
svstem. These problems could be avoided by improving land use zoning and planning
in urban areas.
There is a fundamental lack of land zoning and planning control in Belize (See Section
3). Of the study towns, Corozal and Dangriga have both been subject to a Town
Planning Scheme Notice under the Housing and Tow.n Planning Act in the mid 1960s
(see Section 3). A zoning map was prepared for both towns showing permitted land
uses. Under the Notice the Town Boards were delegated the responsibility for
approving building permissions within their jurisdiction. It is not know to what extent
the Town Boards follow these procedures or whether the zoning maps have been
updated. However it is evident that in both towns unsuitable development is taking
place, for example in Skeleton Town in Corozal, or the mangroves in the Rivas Estate,
Dangriga.
In the other towns, there seems to be little control on land development and even a
widespread lack of understanding of drainage hazards. This is illustrated by the desire
to raise the land in the inner swamp in Orange Walk for residential development
without providing for drainage and on the floodplain of the New River. The Town
Boards are seemingly powerless to influence the defects of land subdivisions or of
layouts for development on individual plots. Finally, much development takes place
without following the existing legal procedures or complying with conditions placed on
permits.
The lack of planning control means that, while this project.will seek to remedy existing
flooding problems around main drains, flooding will continue to be a problem in manv
towns in Belize. Furthermore, improvements proposed under the present scheme may
inadvertently encourage residential development in unsuitable areas, for example
around the Lakeland Canal in Dangriga which traverses mangrove swamps.
C Date l 1999 121



14                  Environmental Management Plan
14.1                Overview
The purpose of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is to set out hovw the
project will be implermented in such a way as to ensure that the adverse impacts are
mitigated as far as possible, takig account of institutional weaknesses identified in the
previous section. The following text summarises the main issues which have been
identified in the study towns. This is followed by a description of the programme for
the implementation of the EMP, consisting of the key components of the EMTP,
institutional responsibilities, specialist work packages, costs and programrne.
14.2                Sectoral Issues
1 4.24 1UInsvimona! Weaknesses
The implementation of the proposed drainage scheme will involve a number of
government institutions, prncipallv the MoW as the executing agency, and the DoE
and DoA who have interests in ensuring the EMP is implemented. Once the scheme is
implemented the Town Boards take up the responsibility for operating and
maintaining the drainage schemes.
A common theme in all these institutions is the shortage of staff and, sometimes
equipment. The MoW7 is able to contract out the construction of major works. The
DoE can tum to other departments in the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources or other government agencies for assistance. It is proposed to overcome
these difficulties by appointing a Supervising Engineer whose responsibilities will
include the implementation of the mitigation plan and EMP.
Training and technology transfer is another area which requires strengthening. This is
applicable to both the MoW, through the provision of training to the local offices in
drainage design, and to the Town Boards regarding maintenance and operation of
drains, as well as more general assistance in management and finance.
14.2.2              Urban and Land Use Planning
As described in Section 13, there are significant deficiencies in urban and land use
planning and control. This has given rise to numerous problems, with residential
D-:N.4C Fr-s C D- I, idiy1 122
F l        A



development in unsuitable areas, such as natural swamps and river floodplains, and
self-help actions by individual occupiers which can affect the flooding risk to
neighbouring properties (see Section 2). People end up living in unsatisfactory
conditions and pressure for retrospective drainage provision mounts.
There is an argument for a major technical assistance programme for Belize to
strengthen the land use and town planning systems. This could involve activities such
as a review of the legislation; institutional strengthening of the central planning
authorities, development of urban plans for towns, local government strengthening,
environmental education to the public on land use zoning, the environrment and
hazards, etc. We understand that the Central Statistical Office is preparing
computensed, up-to-date street maps of urban serdements for the next Census in
2001. These maps would form an excellent base for town planning in any future
projects.
In the present study there may be scope for small scale assistance, through technical
advice to Town Boards or environmental education programmes.
14.2.3               Construction Nuisance
Construction of the drains and canals will give rise to nuisances for residents,
pedestrians, and other road users. Construction will also impact upon the natural
environment in a number of ways, such as through alteration of critical habitats,
reduction of water quality, and solid waste disposal. Manv of these impacts can be
reduced through 'good housekeeping' measures (see Section 12). Tnese measures can
be implemented by incorporating appropriate clauses for the control of nuisances and
management of construction practices into the contract documents. Contractors would
need to ensure sufficient allocation in their bid to implement these mitigation
measures, and would be legally required to abide by these clauses. The Supervising
Engineer would be responsible for ensuring that the environmental clauses in the
contract documents are implemented. A draft copy of suitable clauses is provided in
Appendix F.
142.4                Dredging and Coastal.Erosion in Dangriga
The proposed scheme in Dangriga includes dredging at the mouths ofJohn Creek and
Havana Creek to improve the evacuation of drainage waters. Furthermore, given the
dynamics of sediment transport along the coast, as well as sedimentation in the canals
Do: N. R i 0 D,t, My 1999 1
F \mIeEorrmnc Amo\ree\hw\ro:Fn1}0.o
V



themselves, there is likely to be a need for periodic dredging as part of the maintenance
programme. However, the beaches in Dangriga are suffering from coastal erosion and
may be further affected by additional losses in sediment resulting from dredging.
A monitoring programme is required in Dangriga to assess the effects of dredgmg at
the mouths of John Creek and Havana Creek on beach stabilitv This programme
should take into account the recovers and re-fornat on period of dredged sand bars;
the area in which the sediments are disposed (commercial re-use or offshore), and
whether the removal of dredged material rav result in a net loss to the nearshore
sediment budget. If sediment is lost from the beach system through dredging, then
measures mav be required to ensure that in future, it is retained.
74.2.5              Contamination of inshorr coastal waters
Halcrow held discussions with Ms J Gibson of the Coastal Zone Mianagement
Author:ty (CZNv,L) on potential coastal and marine impacts from the drainage
improvement works for the three coastal towns. The CZMA indicated that in their
opinion the changes proposed were relatively small scale and not of a nature to cause
concern to them in regard to impacts in the coastal and marine environment. However,
thev were keen to be consulted further should any of the works include coastal
defences.
In areas of existing drains and canal or river outlets, there is a long history of water and
sediment exchange between the land and the sea. In addition, and since the time when
wastewater was added to the drainage system through human occupation, various
potential pollutants have been introduced to the marine environment. Various
documents also refer to the potential for septic tank leakage to nearshore waters, and,
in some cases, sediments, agricultural chemicals or industrial effluents. Further, over
many years, there have been ongoing - and from an environmental mitigation
perspective, uncontrolled - sediment dredging and related maintenance operations near
outfalls, partly to improve navigation, and in some instances to reduce stagnancy in
blocked outlets.
It is expected that with improvements in drainage channels, the peakedness of stormn
hydrographs will increase. It is not clear what effect this may have on the marine
environment that is different from the present. Generally, under low fiow conditions,
some build up of sediment occurs at certain outfalls, along with ponding of backwater.
Do, N. O    Dr - M., iS9  124



Heavy rainfall causes a flushing action, with anm temporary outlet blockages being
removed. At al] locations, there is discharge of freshwater, and with it, any
accumulated debris and polluted water to nearshore areas. This 'first flushing' effect is
more muted at outlets which are permanently open, but a discharge plume wuil spread
from all outlets into the sea. The plume then disperses along and offshore, depending
on the coastal mixing regime at the time of discharge. It is the rate of mixing and
dispersion of this freshwater plume and anv contained sediment, chemical and bacterial
loads in the nearshore area which might change, as a function of the rate at which
floodwater is initially introduced to the coastal area.
Many variables will influence (a) the rate and quantity of discharge, and (b) the
nearshore mixing and dispersion. To understand them for each of the outlets would
involve a study of substantial proportions. If in any instance, the likely change in
volume of discharge was significant, or if a major discharge point was being newly
introduced close to a critical habitat, fisheries area or bathing beach, a programmne of
field measurement, allied to the construction of a dispersion model, might be justified
to enable further analysis. This is not considered to be the case in this study.
Unfortunately there are no data on coastal water quality at the three coastal towns in
this project, nor of the effects that dredging or the effluents introduced to coastal
discharges may have had on marine systems at these locations. WXith regard to coral
reefs for example, "due to the lack of baseline data, and ecological studies, no clear
cause and effects relationships have been quantified" [between potential impacts and
effects on reefs] (CZMP, 1995). While the case for a longer-term programme of water
quality monitoring has been made for the Belize coastline (CZMP, 1995), there are at
present no comparators by which any possible changes introduced by a more efficient
drainage scheme at the three coastal towns can be assessed.
Consequendy, in light of (a) the history of discharge in these areas, (b) the comments
from the CZMA, and (c) the overall capital cost of the proposed programmes, it is not
considered a priority for such a monitoring progranmne to be introduced as a
consequence of the proposed drainage works. However, the wider issue of source
control of contaminant loadings is a matter of concem to environmental managers in
Belize, and these issues will enter into consideration for any programme of
environmental monitoring and management.
Doc N D R., C D-,v M-y 199S 125
F \5Xie XEnmsottmm u: Jeamcnt\Prox tcs \ ffibwp \ 3iport \ Pun _Nctv.50 c



Marine conservation issues, and issues related to maintenance dredging, are discussed
in the separate sections for the three coastal towns. These discussions take into
account the proximity of drainage oudets to critical habitats and conservation areas.
14.2.6               Eco/oqg and BiodiversiDl
The ecological survevs have shown that the proposed drainage schemes will impact
direcdy upon two ecologicaLy sensitive areas: mangrove habitat to the south of
Dangriga, and seasonal swamp forest which supports rare and endangered'species in
Punta Gorda. The potential impact of reduced water quality on the ecology of coastal
waters is not considered to be significant in the light of the improvements to the
drainage schemes, although in a wider context, the impact of marine pollution from
diffuse and point runoff from the mainland may affect the ecology of seagrass and
coral reefs offshore.
Mangroves are a globallv threatened habitat. One consequence of this is that
developments funded by International Funding Institutions are likely to come under
close scrutiny both within the IFIs and from intemational NGOs, regardless of the
area affected and the extent of the habitat within a given country.
In Belize mangroves are well represented, covering an estimated 296 square miles or
3.4% of the land area, and the ecological integrity of Belize's mangroves is thought to
be verv good (CZMP 1995). Basin mangrove, the type found along the Lakeland Canal
in Dangriga, covers 14% of protected areas. The protection of mangroves in Belize is
controlled through the system of protected areas, permitting for land clearance, and
the EIA system. About 20%/o of mangroves on the mainland lie in protected areas.
Under the Forests (Protection of Mangroves) Regulation 1989 and its amendment (see
Section 3), developers have to apply to the Forestry Departrnent for a permit to clear
mangroves. Finally, projects which affect sensitive ecosystems including mangroves
require an EIA under the EIA Regulations 1995.
Notwithstanding, the above mangroves are coming under increasing pressure
particularly from land clearance for urban development. Much of this is done illegally,
without obtaining permits or going through the EIA system. Furthermore, monitoring
and controlling mangrove clearance is difficult given the large areas involved, the local
scale of much clearance, the low penalties for mangrove clearance (US$500), the poor
history of enforcement of penalties, and limited staffing at the Forestry Department.
D.NoO N.  0 )ate Mey 195 126
F \ We \E=L:Don nmeni Asus.nt,. t\Ptos \  N d-c



The CZMP (1995) puts forward recommendations for managing mangroves covering
(i) improved enforcement of existing mangrove regulations, (ii) finalising and adopting
amendments to the legislation, (iil) designating proposed protected areas and assessing
the feasibility of protecting other recommended sites, (iv) continue planning initiatives
to zone important mangrove areas for protection, (v) carrv out survey work and
research in poorly known mangrove areas, (vi) continue with public awareness
campaigns, and (vi) encourage accession to the Ramsar Convention and nomination of
wetland sites that are impi,rtant for mangroves, such as Tumeffe Atoll. In connection
with item (v) above, the CZMP mentions mangroves in Dangriga.
Encroachment on the mangroves around Dangriga is occurring as people construct
their own properties within the mangroves and even clear large areas such as has
happened recentl for a marina development (see Plates d and e for Dangriga). A rapid
review of the current land tenure suggests that much of the Gra Gra Lagoon to the
south of Dangriga is Crown Land, except for the coastal strip, hinterland and the land
along the proposed canal alignment which appear to lie in private hands (Figures 14.1
and 14.2). A title search is required to establish ownership in any detail. Given the
existing subdivision, future development is likely, particularly along the coastal strip,
which, being slightly higher and fronting the ocean, is prime real estate. The re-
alignrment of Lakeland Canal may also induce development either along the canal itself,
or in the area between Dangriga and the canal.
There is a legal requirement to maintain a 66' (about 20 m) buffer of woodland along
waterways. However, it is not clear whether the canal would count as a waterway, and
if so, whether the buffer would be measured from the water's edge, or the edge of the
embankments. If the former applied, the width of woodland in the buffer would be
reduced to about 12-14m due to clearance required for the embankments. From an
ecological point of view, the buffer zone should be nearer 40 m than the legal standard
of 20 m.
A local NGO, Friends of the Gra Gra, is involved in trving to designate the Gra Gra as
a protected area, carrying out patrols to prevent illegal activities in the area, cleaning up
campaigns, and serving as an outreach centre. The lagoon ecology is being studied
under ESTAP (Environmental Social Technical Assistance Project) and it is likely that
this study will recommend protection of the lagoon.
Do. No C R- 5 D-t  :v 1.999 127
F \a/e\ErlororarrS nrnt\Prems\thbwpEhpon\Fm:£_No do



While the drainage proposals for the Lakeland Canal would result in the clearance of a
relatively small area of mangrove, some type of mitigation is warranted to protect and
conserve not onlv the mangrove in the area immediately around the Lakeland Canal,
but also the whole lagoon svsterr.
The situation in Punta Gorda is different. Here, the South West Magoon Drain flows
along a meandering course through seasonal swamp forest, a habitat which is well
represented covering 29%/o of land in protected areas in Belize. However, this habitat is
frequented bv Black Howler Monkeys (listed as 'vulnerable' by IUC8N), and a plant,
Zamiapzaa (isted in Schedule II of CITES and as 'rare' in WCMC), has been found.
The proposed works would result in a significant loss of habitat within a relatively
small area, the potential severance of forest habitat from the Black Howler Monkeys
and loss of specimens of Zamzapicta.
A rapid review of the land maps shows that much of the area around the proposed
channel has been subdivided. This makes it harder to provide the woodland with some
sort of protected status. In the longer term, the appropriate authorities could consider
buying sufficient land to ensure a 'forest' corridor along the new river alignment. To be
effective in ecological terms, the corridor should be considerably wider than the legal
buffer of 20m, say 50m on either bank upstream of the road bridge, and 100m either
side downstream of the road bridge. This would incorporate an area of about 14 ha
which could be declared as a public park and be managed by a local NGO.
14.2.7               Cudtura!Heritage
The archaeological study confirms that Corozal, Orange Walk, San Ignacio and Santa
Elena, and Benque are all sited within or close to areas of archaeological importance
(see Appendix C). Of these towns, the most sensitive site is Corozal where the
modem-day town has expanded across the ruins of the Mayan and Colonial settlement.
While many of the archaeological structures have been lost through reconstruction of
the town, excavations below a few centimetres continue to unearth evidence of
structures and archaeological artefacts. In Corozal the archaeologist has made
recommendations for pre-construction excavation and recording, followed by
monitoring during construction.
In Orange \;alk, San Ignacio and Benque, the known archaeological sites lie on the
town outskirts or wider environs. However, Maya pottery fragments found at several
Do- N.O Re O Dare M,. 1999 128
F- \Z.e \F- -uo=nt.Lcst:\P  le  \tcw    eot\F_o.



locations during the archaeological walkover surveys point to the potential for sites of
archaeological interest within the town boundaries. In these areas the archaeologist has
made recommendations for monitoring during construction.
Neither Dangriga nor Benque are closely associated with Maya settlements, and the
archaeological survevs did not reveal any sites of potential interest. Consequently, no
recommendations have been made for additional surveys in these towns. If
archaeological remains or artefacts are discovered during excavation, the contractor
wiL be obliged to comply with national law to report the finds to the DoA. These legal
requirements wiL be referred to in the contract documents.
14.3                 Environmental Management Plan
i4.3:.7r             Requirrments of the EMP
The EMP consists of a series of activities to be undertaken bv the Supenrising
Engineer, or their appointed experts, during the construction of the drainage
subprojects. The activities consist of the day-to-day monitoring of the contractors by
the Supervising Engineer, and also a number of specialist work packages to mitigate
the adverse effects of the proposed schemes and address institutional weaknesses
identified above.
74.32                Institutional ResPonsibihi ~for Implementon
Overall responsibilint for the implementation of the Environmental Mitigation Plar.
lies with the MoW, Project Execution Unit.
It is understood that the MoW wishes to award the drainage contracts to national
construction companies. Invitations to tender will include details of the drainage design
as well as a model contract including all the mitigation measures required to be
undertaken by the contractor. The contractor is responsible for pricing his bid to take
these measures on board. Once the contract is awarded, each contractor will be
responsible for constructing the works as specified in accordance with all the
mitigation and good housekeeping measures listed in the bidding documents and
contract.
The PEU intends to appoint a Supervising Engineer, who will be responsible for the
day to day supervision of the contracts for the drainage sub-projects. It is not possible
to comment in detail on the staffing of the supervising Engineer's team at present.
DOC N. O R, C Dt, MVy 1995 129
F VW\F--"rSir ~SCmtC\:O EU\tb: RPOt ^_CFd 



However the team is likely to consist of the Project Manager and 4-6 full time
members of staff, each one responsible for the contracts in one or more towns.
The Supervising Engineer will be responsible for ensuring that the works are
constructed according to the detailed design specifications, and that the contractor
adheres to all the requirements in the contract documents, including mitigation and
good housekeeping measures. The Supervismg Engineer will also be responsible for
undertaking the EMP, including:
*  routine monitoring of the contractor, for example:
* inspecting the construction site and access routes before and during
construction
* providing the Supervising Engineer, Project Manager with progress reports
on environmnental matters
* attending progress meetings
- identifving, implementing and documenting mitigation and enhancement
works
*  management of the specific work packages identified in the EMP, involving:
-  appointment of specialist staff and subconsultants to undertake the work
packages identified in the EMP
* management of subconrracts
* monitoring progress of the work packages
* approving the deliverables produced for the work packages
I, during the course of any of the construction phases, there is a significant change to
the design, layout or construction method, the Supervising Engineer will produce a
report on the change, the potential environmental impacts, altemative solutions, and
proposals for rnitigation. This will be submitted to, and discussed with the PEU. Any
agreed changes to the proposed works will be recorded in a Variation Register
illustrated below.
D~NoDO PC D. Me99 130



Table 14.1 Example of a Variation Register
Date     Proposed change and reason  Requested   Environmental   Project           PEU        Consultees
bv          Implications      Manager       Approval  Notified
_______   _________________________A                  pproval    _ _  _ _ _
Once a change has been agreed by the PEl2, the Supervising Engineer will undertake
to inforrn the contractor and appropriate consultees, who may include the DoE, the
DoA, the Town Board, or local residents.
14.3.3               Speaa2sl Work Package; in The EMP
(a)    Phase I
Package No. 1 - TA to the Minist= of Works: Local Offices in the Study Towns
This package is concerned with providing technology transfer to staff in the local
MoW offices who are responsible for constructing drainage works. The longer term
aim is to improve the MoW's capability in good drainage design at the local level.
It is proposed that the Supervising Engineer will arrange for a member of staff to
undertake a three week lecture tour of the six study towns in order to train staff at the
local MoW offices in drainage design. The tour will involve class room discussions and
visits around the town to discuss specific problems in the field. The drainage engineer
will cover issues such as:
*   design cnteria
* estimating runoff
F           
Da



* sizing drains and culverts
* outfall design
r materials, and
*  maintenance.
Participants will receive handouts on the themes covered in the workshop.
Package No. 2 - TA to the Town Boards on Drainage Maintenance
The aim of this package is to train the appropriate staff at the Town Boards on good
practices in drainage maintenance. It is proposed that the Supervising Engineer
arranges for a member of staff to undertake a three week study tour of each of the
studv towns. The drainage engineer would provide class room talks followed by field
visits in each town. The workshops would cover the following issues:
*  natural drainage patterns in the town
e  consequences of inappropriate urban development
n mapping the drainage system
* preparing a schedule of the drains and their characteristics
* requirements for an annual maintenance programme
* how to prepare a maintenance manual
* manpower planning and deployment
The workshops would be open to the Mayor, Town Clerk, Foreman and key
maintenance staff, one of whom should be appointed as the Drainage Supervisor. It is
important to involve senior managerial and finance staff, so that the financial, human
and technical resources to undertake drainage maintenance are fully understood and
supported at the senior level. Specific issues will be developed in each town. For
example, in Dangriga, the operation of the manual penstocks on the canals
discharging to the Stanr Creek and requirements for dredging. In Orange Walk, the
drainage engineer would explain the importance of the inner swamp as a natural
balancing pond.
This Package could be undertaken in conjunction with Package 1, which would
provide economies of scale and promDte inter-agency co-ordination between the local
MoW offices and the Town Boards.
DorNC Rs O D~,,¢ 1995 132
F \' \E   somu   scYc.   rlcY\ h   p\FrC     =_s  r.o



Package iNo 3 - Archaeolomcal Excavation and Monitoring' Corozal
At Corozal it is proposed to appoint a qualified archaeologist with a valid permit to
work on archaeological sites if, Belze, to undertake trial excavations prior to
construction, followed by periodic monitoring of the construction site.
The pre-construction trial pit excavations will involve one archaeologist for three
weeks, assisted by four fill time labourers for 60 days. The package also includes an
allowance to undertake laboratorv analysis and research on anv structures or artefacts
found during the trial excavations, and to report on the findings. Inputs for the
laboratory analysis and reporting are 45 days for an archaeologist and 30 days for an
assistant.
Once construction commences, there is lirnited budget for the archaeologist-to visit the
construction site, either to monitor excavations or to answer a call-out should the
contractor or Supervising Engineer discover items of interest during construction.
This amounts to 8 call out days for the archaeologist and 16 call out days for labourers.
Package No. 4 - Archaeological Monitoring: Orange Walk, San Ignacio/Santa Elena.
and Benque
The aim of this package is to provide expert help in the archaeological field during the
construction of the drainage sub-projects in Orange W;;alk, San Ignacio and Santa
Elena, and Benque. The archaeological team will work in the field, either at the
beginning of the excavation of new drains, or, during the renovation of existing drains.
The archaeologist will recover and record any structures or artefacts discovered during
the excavations, and will report the results to the Supervising Engineer. The report will
include discussion about the soil and any material found such as shells, ceramic
fragments, bones and rmiscellaneous material.
The total input amounts to 10 days for an archaeologist, and 20 days for labourers.
Package No. 5 - Monitoring Creeks and Beach Profiles: Dangriga
The aim of this package is to provide baseline data and an initial evaluation of the
effects of dredging on channel and beach morphology.
DNo N O P: C Date, i* 199S 133
F SW \Ev:orcc    m ntPort  tbp\Rtot\F7_otro



The consultants will design a programme for monitoring the beaches and canal
conditions, and set up a sumple database to record topographical data collected from
repeated surveys.
An initial survev of beach profiles around John Creek and Havanna Creek will be
undertaken prior to the commencement of any dredging works. The survey will be
repeated towards the end of the construction of works in Dangriga The tWO surveys
of the beach profiles will be compared to identify whether any significant changes in
beach morphology have taken place. The survey of cross sections in the dredged canals
will serve as a baseline for future studies to determine the rate of sedimentation in the
canals, and consequently the need for dredging.
TLhe package allows for two, two week visits for a sedimentation specialist to Belize
and two one week surveving campaigns.
(b)     Phase II
Package No. 1 - TA to the Town Boards on Finance and Management
The aim of this package is to provide training to the Town Boards in financial and
management issues. Improvements in local revenue collection and management would
have beneficial impacts on the running of the towns in general, as well as on the
provision of services such as the maintenance of drainage.
It is proposed to appoint an expert on local government finance to review the system
for property taxation, capital accumulation and management. This individual would
spend three weeks visiting the towns, working with the Town Boards, and in
particular with the Mayor and Town Clerk. The specialist wiL prepare a report on each
town, presenting his findings and recommendations.
Package No. 2 - Urban Planning and Expansion
The aim of this package is to review urban zoning and procedures for granting building
permissions in Dangriga and Corozal with a view to making recommendations on how
to up-date the zonation plans, strengthen the capability of the Town Boards to
DoclNoC nv. m. i99S 134
F \W,\on,n*len AscatFowc db=pForFrl_o.



improve their procedures, and environmental education programnrmes for local
residents.
The package allows for a town planner to spend a week in both towns. The town
planner wiL work closely with the Town Boards, but will also liaise with the Mlinistry of
Housing and Planning and the Land Utilisation Authority in Belmopan. Corozal and
Dangriga were selected for this package as thev are the only two towns for which
Town Planning Schemes have been prepared.
Package No. 3 - Archaeological Excavation and Monitoring Corozal
This package will finance pre-construction trial excavations to evaluate the
archaeological record in the area affected by the Phase II works, and provide for
limnited monitoring and response to call outs during construction. The proposed
approach is similar to that described under Phase I, but is concemed with a different
set of drainage sub-projects.
The package allows for a total of 24 days input for an archaeologist and 40 days input
for labourers and laboratory assistants.
Package No. 4 - Archaeological Monitoring: Orange Walk. San Ignacio /Santa Elena
and Benque
This package is sirnilar to Package No. 5 for Phase I, except that it refers to a separate
set of drainage sub-projects to be carried out under Phase I. The budget allows for a
total input of 12 davs for both an archaeologist and labourers.
Packag No. 5 - Dredging and Beach Erosion: Dang[ri'
This package follows on from Package No. 3, undertaken in Phase 1. The aim is to
identify whether there have been any significant changes in beach morphology around
the creek outfalls as a consequence of dredging the lower reaches of the creeks, and the
rate of sedimentation in the creeks themselves.
D- No. O - 0 D,tt: My     135
F \VeEno neSnn\oeXebpFpr   Nvc 



The package involves a sing]e repeat survey of the same cross sections surveved under
Phase I, and an analvsis of the changes in landform. The results will be reported to the
Supervising Engineer.
If the study shows that there has been a significant, detrimental change in the beach
profiles, the report will make recommendations for further survevs and remedial
measures. The report will also comment on sedimentation rates in the canal outfalls
and the need for dredging.
Package No. 6 - Mangrove Protection: Dangriga
It is proposed to undertake studies to forward the possibility of proclauning part or all
of the Gra Gra Lagoon as a reserve. This will involve a short legal studv bv a lawyer (5
days), to outline the legal constraints, and an ecological study (15 davs) to prepare an
outline management plan for the Lagoon which could be adopted by the local NGO or
forwarded to the appropriate government authorities for consideraton.
This package would complement the proposed environmental education programnme
recommended in Package 8 below.
Package No 7 - Habitat Protection Punta Gorda
Proposals to straighten and widen the South West Magoon are known to affect an area
of seasonal swamp forest where an endangered plant, Zamiapicta, has been found.
However, it is not known whether the proposals will actually affect stands of this
species. The aim of this package is to determine more preciselv the potential impact of
the proposed works on the habitat in general, and rare species in particular.
It is recommended that the alignment of the proposed works, and the working width
required for construction is pegged out, and an intensive ecological survey is
undertaken, with particular reference to identifying stands of ZamiapicLa.
The ecologist will prepare an ecological corridor design plan, to include
* the identification of stands of Zamiapicza which should be preserved as
far as possible
DO, N O R-, C ID,, MA 1995 136



*  individuals of Zamiapicta to be relocated within the forest, or to another
suitable location
*  the identification of large trees, which should be presenred as far as
possible to provide habitat for Black Howler Monkeys
*  the design and location of monkey bridges
The package will also include a limited sum of monev to build monkey bridge.; and
translocate a small number of specirnens of Zamiapicta.
Package No. 8 - Environmental Education: Dangriga
The aim of this package is to disseninate information to the inhabitants in Dangriga
about a variety of environmental issues, particularlv:
*  the airns of the drainage proposals
*  the ecological and econornic value of mangroves
e  legal procedures for obtaining building permnissions, including house
permits, EIA, and perrmits for clearing mangroves
*  good practices for solid waste disposal
-  good practices for the construction of cess pits and latrines.
It is proposed to undertake the environmental training programnrme with the assistance
of a local NGO.
(c) Phase III
Package No I - Archaeological Monitoring and Excavation
This package provides archaeological assistance during the construction of the
remnaining drainage sub-projects in Corozal, Orange Walk, San Ignacio, Santa Elena
and Benque. Most of the input is to undertake pre-construction trial pits in Corozal,
with a small amount of input for routine monitoring during construction or to respond
to call-outs from the Supervising Engineer.
DocN. 0R 0 D.m,: M,1999 137



The inputs are based on 50 days for an archaeologist for field analysis, laboratory
anvlsis and 10 call out davs, and 40 days for labourers, 20 days for laboratory
assistance, and 30 davs for call out assistance.
Package No. 2 - Dredgng and Coastal Erosion: Dangu
This package is sirmilar to Package No. 5 described above for Phase II, to be repeated
in Phase III. It also includes for the preparation of a final report to describe changes in
beach morphology and canal cross sections, and the need for dredging.
1'.3.4              Cost Estimates
The costs of implementing the specialist packages idenified in the EMT) were
estimated at 1999 prices. The cost of implementing the EMP for Phases II and III will
need to be adjusted for inflation at the appropriate time. As a guideline for developing
the EMP, an average cost lirmit of 150,000 Bz per construction phase was adopted.
Table 14.2      Costs of the work packages for the EMP (BzS, 1999)
Package Type                       Phase I           Phase II           Phase III
Training - MoV'                      No. 1   25,000  _
Training - Town Boards              No. 2   25,000    No. 1   35,000
_No. 2   30,00
.Archaeology - Excavation and       No. 3   34,000    No. 3   14,000   No. 1   27,500
Monitoring
.9rchaeologv - Monitorin             No. 4..  5,500    No. 4    4,000
Monitoring canals and beach profiles   No. 5   70,500    No. 5   45,000   No. 2   51,500
M%angrove protection: Dangriga                          No. 6   20,000
Habitat protection: Punta Gorda                         No, 7   15,000
Environmental Education: Dangriga                       No. 8   12,000
__otals                                     160,000            175,000            79,000
14.3.5              Programme
The EMP will be implemented in three key phases, coinciding with the breakdown of
the proposed drainage schemes into three phases.
DocN.O FR- 0 Datu, M 1999 138
F \W, \E,,vao,a,,,,rt i    efnnEroer\iw    wor ra_Nsd 



Phase I
Following appointnment of the Supervising Engineer, it will be necessarn to appoint the
staff and consultants vwho will undertake the various specialists tasks.
Packages Nos. 1, and 2 can be undertaken at anm time during Phase I. There would be
benefits to delaying Package 2 towards the end of the construction period so that the
training is provided close to the hand over of the works to the Town Board.
Package No. 3 needs to be initiated at least a month before the comnmencement of
construction, say in March 2000. The monitoring programme would then take place
immediatelv before or during the initial excavations, and would have to be agreed with
the contractor.
Package No. 4 similarly needs to tie in with the initial clean up of the construction site
and even initial excavations. The programming needs to be agreed between the
archaeologist and the contractor.
Package No. 5 needs to be initiated before the main construction programme starts in
Dangriga, so that the first surveys provide a topographical baseline against which
further changes can be compared. The initial survey could be undertaken in spring of
next year, say March or April 2000, followed by the second survey towards the end of
the construction period later in the year 2000 or early in 2001.
Phase In
Packages Nos I and 2 on the provision of training to the town Boards on management
and finance, and land use planning, can be implemented at any stage during Phase II.
The arrangements for Packages Nos 3 and 4 on archaeological surveys and monitoring
are similar to those described for Phase I Packages 4 and 5.
The timing of the next beach and canal survey under Package No. 5 would depend on
the lapse between the previous undertaken in Phase I. At least one year should have
elapsed between surveys.
D,, N. C Rr O D0v Ma    139
FAW.\B-\-tnwnzAsm  Poc  hEpXsp: \i_o.



Package No. 6 on mangrove protection needs to be initiated in the first stages of Phase
II, so that anm recommendations arising from the study, particularly with regards the
legal issues, could be considered during the phase of land purchase. Package No. 7 on
habitat protecton in Punta Gorda needs to be undertaken prior to land clearance.
Package No. 8 on environmental education in Dangriga can be implemented at anm
stage during Phase IIl.
Phase III
Package No. 1 on archaeological monitoring and excavation needs to be implemented
at least a month prior to construction, to allow sufficient rime for tnral excavation. The
package will continue during the earlv stages of land clearance and excavation.
T'he timing of Package No. 2 will depend on the elapsed time since the previous survey
undertaken in Phase II.
Doc No C i- 0 D-t i19y 99 140
F \eE  eoJmxAssotPoeslba\.rorFu_o   o



' LOI



15                  Inter-Agency and Public/NGO Consultation
15.1                Consultation vith Government and Non-Government Organisations
In August 1999, the engineering and EIA studs team visited each of the six studs
towns in turn to meet with local authorities and visit the areas affected by flooding
The whole team met with the Town Boards (at least the Mayor, Town Clerk and
Foreman), and were subsequentlv shown around the floodmig hot spots in the town bv
staff from the Town Boards.
Individual team members also arranged meetings with local government offices,
NGOs, and other parties likely to be affected by flooding, including:
* Public Health Inspector
*  Vector Control Unit
*  AWater and Sewerage Authority
* ESTAP
* TIDE
* Friends of the Gra Gra
* Staff at schools affected by flooding
Meetings have also been held with the following national authorities:
* Ministry of Works
*  Department of the Environment
* Department of Forestry
* Department of Archaeology
* Department of Physical Planning
*  .Ministry of Housing
* Public Health Bureau
* Coastal Zone Management Authority
A summary of the main issues arising from these meetings is presented in Table 15. 1.
Do: No .Rev C D.t- .y 19  141
F \/,\E-o     A..s. .  P p!Rpo,\F.o. Noo do,



15.2                 Social Surveys
A number of social surveys were undertaken in each of the towns. The main areas
surveyed were those which the Town Boards identified as being the areas most
'seriously' affected by flooding and also areas wxhere new drains are proposed as part of
this drainage project.
The social surveys were undertaken to try to assess the magnitude of the flooding
problem, the effect flooding has on the household, and the concerns of householders
about flooding and construction issues. The results of the social surveys are shown in
Tables 15.2-15.10. Tables 15.2 to 15.6 oudine the existing conditions in terms of water
supply and sanitation and gives an indication of the extent of flooding and the main
problems associated with flooding and of the proposed works. Tables 15.7 to 15.10
give an indication of the occurrence and severint of flooding in each of the areas of the
towns surveyed.
The main points arising from the study are:
*   Flooding from drains is often a localised problem, affecting a relatively small area
for example a few houses around an undersized culvert.
*   During prolong heavy rain, for example following Hurricane Mitch, flooding
continues in low-lving areas from several days to several weeks.
-    Flooding occurs following heavy rain, perhaps once or twice a year. Floodwaters
rise rapidly, may occur at day or night, and.subside within a couple of hours.
-   During floods the difficulty of being able to distinguish the edge of the canal or
ditch poses a serious hazard to voung children.
*    Flooding causes a nuisance for people entering and leaving the property.
*    Flooding brings solid waste dumped on household plots or in the drains (tins,
cans, plastics etc), dead animals (chickens, cats), silts etc.
*   There were frequent complaints of having to clean yards and concem about
potential health risks and odours.
*    Some houses are designed to avoid the ingress of water, eg through land raising,
raising the ground floor of the house, raising door thresholds.
*   Where houses are flooded, damages relate to items on the ground floor (eg
books, rugs etc) and the rotting of timbers and floorboards.
*    Manv people tak}e avoiding action to move goods to a second floor.
Doc N. ^ R- Q Dt,:: My 1999 142
F \W \:rneuAsa Poc  l i Rpor  !}o.o



*   Reports of effort taken to clean the house vary from a couple of hours to several
days.
15.3                Future Publc Consultation
The EIA will be submitted to the MoW and DoE for approval. At the same time a
copy of the EIA report will be placed on deposit at the Town Hall in each of the six
towns for inspection by the Town Boards and local residents. An announcement will
be made in the press, in compliance with the Belizean EIA Regulations. This will invite
the Town Board and residents to comment on the drainage proposals and the EIA.
The EIA report will be revised if necessary in the light of comments received from
NEAC, the Town Boards and the general public.
Doc No 0 R- v D Dt, M 199S 143
F \VEntonnt thNtvphotA_o.o



Table 15.1    Summary of Consultations with Government and Non Government Organisations
T,rowN               ORGANISATiION ANI) A'rwNt)AN,  /:t)NCl- NsfMAIN -oMM-(                                                              N'S
CONTAC.r DEl'AIIS                                                                                                                                   AC.IONS TAKEIN
Belize City          P6ublic I leaiii Futreal                     Mr Anitiltory Flowers               *     P'113 catsy okit 90% of water qialiiy niottitorinp orn     _         3f
ieli7e City Old( I lospital                  (Chief Water Analyst)                     dritlkig water                                                     1993/94 Watr¢,ahfy&I.htaird r.,, Danri
1el: 02- 44362                               Dr Francis, Ilalcrow                *     1993/1994 coastal water quality data exists for llelize
Ms Disl2ke, I lalcrow                    City, San Pedrion, D)ngiga (Coastal Zonie Managerient
Aoithority anld 1institate)                                  *     Dr Francis contacted the C,,astal Z/one
*     Agreed to nitidertakr biateriolFgtcal samplintg for 6              Mana-ement Aitilhority anid Itistitijtt
towns withi assistance frontl regional Public I ieath
!! sectors
Puiblic I lcaltls Bureaui                    Mr Albert Rocs es (Supervisor)    *      IIl 113 si[pports dlrainage proposals
Ielize City Old I lospital                   Ds Francis (I lalcrow)              *     PI 103 sitspects coritasuriss tions [roses 'pry' water asd
Fel: 02- 44362                                                                         sewage it niost dtraijis
*     P 111 st spects groitndlwater contamination frotri pit
latrifnes atid absorption pits                       _                                -
Water and Sewerage Atitliority               Mr Reed (Foreman)                   *     Ittlnomiatiori on dirilting water sources we,e given         *     Passed irnfrnuration olt tr etilnteetitig lair
Water Treatment I'lastt                      D)r Francis, I lalcrow              *     Water qrtiality resilts are available for 1998 for raw
're] 025 -- 24757                            Ms Duilale, Ilalcrow                      water sciirces in all towns
*     At constesictiosi stage, the engilseesitifg teatls sli.ilel
contact Mr Gecogi- Wotig. Clhief rigineer ii [eYize City
for tr,eailed itufonTiation on positionseIes t_etc
Vector Control                               Mr Franicis Westby                  *    l'nlerhi distrir  has highest incidenices of Malaria
National Malarial Service                    (Director)                          *     Last ouitbreak of l)enguie int 1994, 36 crInfinneil cases
Tlel: 02 - 31213                             Ms Chati, I lalcrow                       niostly in fIelize City
*     Siispectd that there is mitch inder seport ing of cases
*     lI1 V meticrdloligy arid iarvicidal splmaytig
Coastal Zone Managemenit Authority 1    Ms Gibson                                *      llie (:ZMA is saitily coiceerried with thfile cal reefs
St Mark's St                                 Dr Francis, 1121crow                *     liey (lo trot have monitoritig statiorts trear the 3 coastal
Tel: 02  35739                                                                         towns
*     11i  drainage preposals are small scale ant isuiilsely to
affect coral reefs
0    'lie CZMA wouild like to be rept inforrieu  if proposals
include sea outfall Protection works
BELMOPAN             Ministry of Workns                           Variotis                            *     Discussions about she proposed draingr wortks
-Tel: 08 -- 22136                             _        .                                            _
Da, tN O RIt  O tIta  May i1999  144
F'iOIt\ttr,"".nmuiA-es-n,\taurNttNrhbsip\RTproi\F-1_N- Ioc-
i l                                                                        S



'rOWN               ORCANISATION AND                            A'l'INi)ANc I                      (CU)NC[.RNS/MAiN (X)MMEN'i'S
CONTACT I)l'I'AI IS                                                                                                                             ACTIONS TAKE N
_epart nents of Enviroinent ffel: 08        Mr Falilo.) Dol                    *    'Tabled atid (ilisctissed the 'T'ertims of Refereiice
- 22816) aid Archaeology (Fel: ()8-         Mr Mocre, l)oA                     *    DIiscussed therrqequrements for public consiiltaiion
22106)                                     Mr I larding, I lalcrow            *    Dol corTlinented oni the nieed frr draisipgr works
Dr  airarcis I laerow                    follovwing thie experienre withi I Itirt,cane Mitch
Mr loior, rltdeperident           *    PVDol responsible for monitoring noTpJIleTneotatiCfl of
mitigation measiiret, bhit would consider delegating this
to the '[own Boards                                  ____
Departimienit of Physical Planniig          Mrs Cardoria                      *     DiscUssed the status of Special D)evclopmesst Areas
Dr Prans _is
Misistry of I loisinig                     Ms 'I'renchl Sanddiford            *    Discussed planining law and tIre rolc of [own lloards is
Dr Franucis                             approvin      ing       lications                       _             _
Department of Forestry                     Mr Saibido                         *    D)iscussed the reg ulations conceruitng tihe aliteration of
Dr Prancis                             rsnuigroves and forcst cleara-sce
*    Discuissed nsitilationi nasteisres for Dangriga antI Piiita
Gorda
llENQUE             Towri Board                                 Mayor, lowri Clerk and         - *    'Ihe lowni Board infonne(l the project traisn of the
loresman                                 areas within the town that they consieleted have a
I lalcrow Stssdy Teatn                  flooding problem
*     Othler general prolerris were discussed such as the
issue of waste collection
Town Clerk                 *Tawn Clerk                             '                Tle Towti Clerk providied a financial Staterinent for
Mr Amos                                  1998/99
*    1Towni (lerk's manjor concerns were low yli-l of
propelty tax.
*    Sanitatioil has bect privatised in 1999/2000 - too early
to comnment russ perfoirniasnce
*    22 emriployees in tIre Works depa2tnsrisit, R work orl
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~drainage asic1 ssnanrtessasuce_._ 
toc No 0 RIv 0 D-ia. MiY to999  145
F \W,\E-run -Wormul Assarrm nt\Poi,cirrhbuipors\FmrraCNrri doc



TOWiN                 ORGANISA'Ii(N AND)                             AlIENDANCE                            CONCEIRNS/MAIN COMMENTS
CONTACTI I)lIAll.S                                                                                                                                        ACTIONS TAKEN
Puiblic I lelitli llireau                     Mr I ewis Go",die                    *      It, Hen( nc water is taken fronm  splrig in 13 ique sod        * a nd                coisilte  and land Ill sit  ispected
San Ignacio I lospital                         Q'siblic I ca1tlt Inspectot)               treated with (Chlorint 
Tcl: 09 22122                                  Ms DilIakIe,Ialcrow                  *      About 50% town has piped water
*     'llere have ben ouitbreaks of Cholera, probably fons
Cijlatenala
*     Resse Morenio collects septap  whicih is hlispose lf at
the Westerni Landfill Site between San Ignacio anid
Benqtue
*     P11 considered that there was probably a Isigli level of
drain contanminsation fosmi septic waste
*     Dunring flooding inci(lents, there have bects cases when
the water sinpply has tirned brown
*     I Icalth problesaTs suclh as parasite wormos, and diirrhoea
___________ _   __generally grt worse duering the wet season
Water aitd Sewerage Aitsoerity                 Mr ErrIieO CasCel12no                *     Approximately 9(P/. connected to water distrilbtion
40 StJoseph Street                             (Office Supervisor)                        system
Tel: 09 32014                                  Dr Francis, I lakcrow                *      No known cortaminsation incidents
Ms Duilake, I lalcrow                *     Most grej water goes straight into the drains
Vector Control IJnit                           Mr Roverro                           *      IifoTnsatiosa givesn on numibers of malaria and dsigtis
Sasl Igniacio I lospital                       (Assistan Sipeivisor)                      incidences
rel: 09 - 220966                               Dr Francis - I lalcrow               *      D)escribed the Ul-V atid Larvicirial prognarisnes
Ms Dl)lake, I lalcrow                      practised in Cayo District
Mopan Clinic                                   Sister on duity                      *     Ch:olera outbreak ill 1996/1997, mainly feossi patiensts
George Strcet                                 Dr Frasicis, I lalcrow                      living it Guaternala
Tel: 09 - 32079                                Ms Dulake, I lacrow                  *     Principal illnesses in area are acuite gstroenteritis, acIte
diarrhoca, only 3 positive cses off 1)g         ve  in 1999
Mouint Carmel I liiil School                   Mr T'oInn  Rhobisso                  *      Infomishion given concernaing level isf flooding in
Mousit CGrmel Road                             ( lead lTeacher)                            Mousts Carnicl school grousids.
Dr Franicis, I lalcrow               *      Fhoodling only causes minor probleyns for school dtic to
Ms D)ulakr, I lalerow                      adequate drainoage
Pritrsary Schsool                              D)ea kin Cal1 Cathe rs               *      Land between the schools floocls o fsesn hut probably           *       asdoiifrsitm,suseqsc  ssirug
(1 leadh Teacher)                          only gets ini bulnhlings orsce/twice a year                      *      Issed ori iformation to rngb reis repiding
D)r Fraticis, i lacrow               *     Problerns with spring situated very close to Middle                    problemrss witil Milshle Sc li oo
Nis Dulake, Ilalerow                       School
*     Sujpport drainage proposals  as wossld be able to so
land between the schools as play area
Do- SN. 0 R- 0 Dav, My t999  146
P \Wn\Enaalonwleuiat Assnssm,n.nut\'ou,rns\luibusp\Rnpoie\C5lNOal dion



i OWN               bi~dR~OGAN-IjSAi AN ND                      ATI- -ND)ANCE                     (CON(CRNS/MAIIN C(MMEINTIS
CON IAI DACTIONSlTAKN 
(:OROZAL            Tow  l Board                                Mayor olwn ( lerk,IJ lO iaii       *    '11e lown Board ijifoIid tile proi;ct teasn of the
llalcrow Study lesa                   arras within the town that they conisiderel to have a
flooding ptolilern
*     Otiler general piohbleiTs were discussed such as the
issue of waste collection
[Iown Clerk                       *      town Clerk pioviled a Financial Statement (or
Mr Amilos, Independent                   1998/99
*     Property tax collection has heen privstised
*     Sanitation was ptivatised in 1992 aticd performance is
generally poor. tils hIas also cau sed a cash flow
prohlem
*     Tlhe Works rdepartmssent has 10 l en who rarry ollt drain
maintenance
Public I Iealth Buireaus                   Mr Xavier Alpuiche                 *     Receit expansion has claused considerable drailiagr
Cnro7al I leaith Ceitre, Saita Rita       (lubhlc I lealtlh Inspector)             problcms
Road, Tel: 04 - 22076                      Dr Francis, Hlalcrow               *    Likely to be primitive 'bottomless' septic tauks rin old
Ms Dialake, lialcrow                    part of town
*    PI IB gives advice on new septic tank desigus
*     Septage collected hy corutiactor fronm 11 r7h  City aind
deposited at waste disposal site 3 miles out of towri
Woter and Sewerage Atitority               Martha Annilia                     *     Approximately 25/ people have piped water supply in
66 4-h Avenuie, Tel: 04 - 22101             (Offire Suipervisor)                    Corozaral, most drilrk rain water
Dr Franicis, llalcrow             *      Do not appear to be mrny iristances of conatamination
of drinking water due to flooding                          ___                             _
Vector Control Unit                        Mr Dilhaaney                       *     Iriforruntion fgven on numbers of malaria and dlengue
(Suipervisor)                           incidences
Dr FraIcis, I Jalcrow             *     Described lJLV and Larvicidal programmes practised in
Corozal and Orarge Walk
DAN(GRIGA           town  osoard                                Mayor Towns Clerk, Foreman         *      the lowrn Board ttiformed the prolect teatti of the
1Ialerow Stuidy Ieamn                   areas withini tie town that they consideredl have a
flooding problern
*     Other general problems were discussed suich as tila
isste of waste collection
Ow N.O  Pe, o D.tl May t999  147
F \W.\E--n .-tu,n     Asasr,un'\P'iiern\ihb,,p\RtOr5\FlnJbOv dO.



'I'OWN               ORGANISA'ltION WND)                             AVIFNDANC E                           CONCE RiNS/MAIN G()MMI' _EN                                                                                                       _
CONrAC'I )F'lAIlS                                                                                                                                          AGIIONS TAKEN
I owis Clerkr                       *      'l3e rown  .Clerkl provided -  States.sent of Accouitits for
Mr /mos, bIdA, e, rnss                     1998/99
Ms Chall, I lIlcrotw                 *     11se lloard emiploys 2 property tAx collectors
*     Sanlitation lias recently been privaeised
*     Works departmert has 10 employees who ilarintain
.__________________   ______________________________________________                     draitss   arid   roads
Iublis I Icaithi Iureaiu                       Mr RaphAel Novello (Public           *      Mr Novello was covering for a collea2gue on holiday and
Danigriga I lospital                           I lealtsh Inspector)                        was new to Daslgriga
'Iel: 05 - 22184                               Dr Franicis, I lalcrow
Water anid Sewerage Authiority                 Mr Castillo                          *      Water suipply is from St:mn Creek. 'Ilse water treatirerit
Market S7iiare                                 (Slipervisor)                               plant is situated 3 mTiies ripstretiss frosii Dasgriga
05 22068                                       Dr Franicis, lIalcrow                *      Rent Moreno collects septage
*     I lighly likely drains rte contaminated with sepsage
*     Concerned over retse of spoil
*     Regular iriorsitoring progtamme for treated water in the
distributioni  systerrn                                        __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _
Vector Control Jisiit                          MrI    Westlsy                                        on;on incidence of Malaria and D_nvu. in
Dr Francis, I lalcrow                      l)anrgriga
*     D)escribed VCUs approach to preveriitng Malaria asid
infornations about programmes
Danigrifa I lospital                           Peter Reyes                                 i lorrse,lmlers call Peter Reyes when their septic tatnks
'lel: 05 - 22078                               I lospilal Jalitor                          are fill, lie then contacts Rene Morerio
Dr Fatncis, I lalcrow
Ftiends of Grs G(ra                            Mr Juslian  lewis                  *      Fsieulds of Gra Gra is a local NG() sOpported by funds
Mr Meermiai, Isidependent                  from ttire Global Enviroimnent Facility (GFF)
*     lIrIe spokesman expressed concerris about the 'T'ows
Board proposasI to lead soine of the rIrainage canals
into thie Gra Grg lagoon dire to ferr tlat thr I.agoon
,rnay becorni conltainated with water from  tIre town.
ORANGE               Town Board                                      Mayor '[ own Clerk, Foreman          *     'lhe l'own Board iifFomierl tile project teran of tire
WALK                                                                 I lalcrow Study Teani                      arras within tIre town that they cotisideted have a
Iloorlirig pluilenI
*     Oilier general problems were discrissed sIuch ass tile
issue of waste collection
Dot N O R-o 0 D.,, May 1999  148
P \Ws\tn9e,,oneue,os Asnsssw.uel\oicri\rthbel\R.epo,\FezlNeo dor



'I(OWN               ORGANISAIION                                 ATIENDANCE                        (C()NCEiRNS/MAIN C(OMMENIS
CONTACIIDEFAIIlS                                                                                                                                   ACTIONS TAKEIN
Town Clerk                         *      11,e town Clerk providled the Fi nanci 1Staternent for
Mr Amos, lridependent                    1998/99
*     Property tax collection has been privatised siice June
1999, perfrmnrance has triot been good
*     Sanitaton Iar, also been privatsied
*    Trown Works departmenit has 15 employees and 2
tnicks
*     A masters strident fhom Qurint2rno Rao UIniversity has
prepared a rlevelopihment strategy for Orange Walk
which is uinler review by the T own Boartl
Public I eltlrth Bureall                    Mr Wiiarrmls                        *     'irle Pfl1 thouigh there is a rlsrect correlation betwcele
Oranige Walk I lospitsl                     (01iblic I leIlth Inspector)              areas of flooding anid incidlenie of malaria bl,t has rno          I -l-1 disposral s,te  -it,dr, rlesrioust r asciI l 6k of
Tel: 03 - 22072                              Dr Francis, I llcerow                    data for Orasigr Walk                                              crntrols
*     Septag  collected by Pl Il3 tnick from B13i,e City or
private Finn arid is taken to local waste disposal sit, cff
northern I fighlrwy towards Belize City
*     Demand for soil ruaterial in Orange Walk for fisd1
raisingp.
Water rtFd Sewerage Authority                Mr Innes lino                      *     Approximately 90% of people connected to
198 Cinderella Street                       (System Siipervisor)                      distribirtion system hilt most people drinik rtairwater
Tel: 03 -22382                               Ms Dulake, IlIalrow                      during the rainy season
*     No evidence orf drinking water conltnminiitiois disc to
Vector Control Urnit                         Mr Duahe2any                       *     Infomiatior givetr on nisiribers of maari Isr rciileies
(Supervisor)                             etc
Dr Francis, lalcrkow               *     Described tllV and larvicidal progrummes practised in
Ms D)uilake, 11 arrow                    Orasngr Walk
PUN-I-A              Town Board                                   Mayor                              *        lilIown Bolaril infonned the pnorect team of thc
GORDA                                                             I lalcrow Stuidy Team                    areas within the towis that they consildered have a
flooding problem
*     Other general problems were d.isiussCrl such as the
issue of waste collection
Mayor                              *     A Financi;l StaterrMcrt was presenrted for tde ye-r          -
Mr Amos, irndependent                     1998/99
*    ilie local econoTrly is based on Fnslisiig whicis in
decline
*     Sanitation has bcen privatised
*     Vluoation of property is heing undertaken by the lown
Clerk
Dee Slot tir , Dal. Ma t999 149
P \We\tEnvaoewenia Aiicnaioei\Pioerni-i\r55Uti\civo\Rpte\snl-NOo doe



TOWN                ORGANISATION ANI)                          A'I'lNI)ANCE                       CONCERNS/MAIN COMMEN'S
CONTACTr DETAIS                                                                                                                               ACFIONS TAKEN
Public I h-alth Blureau                    Valerie Ariola                    *    Few coniplaits aboupt loodig,pepcl have learnit to
1'el 07 - 22142                            (Public IHealth Insprctor)              live with it
Dr Fratcis, I laicrow             *    In most instances 'prey' wnter is discharged directly inito
Ms Dulalke, I lalcrow                  drains
Malaria Department                         Yvonne Rio                        *    Mgin probleis ira Toledo I lope area/Indiar,ville
PG I ospit91                               (Microscopic Officer)
'ITel: 07 - 22026                          Dr Francis, I laicrow
Water and Sewerage Auithority              Simoni I'aulino                   *    Approximately 90% houiselholds connected to water
New Compound Area                          (Systerul Supervisor)                   diribuition systern
I'el: 07 - 22176                           Dr Francis, I lalcrow              *    Water astrtcted from a well ahouit one arid a half niles
Ms lDulake                              otit of town
*    Water saniples takeni daily fmorrt points in tIle water
distrihbutiofn sys5ram
*    Well in town contaminated chle to careless_planirijg       -          __          ____         _               _
Vector Control Unit                        Orlatndo Clian2 (Suipervisor)     *     lInfotiratiori giveri aboaut inicidence of Malaria aridi
PG I lospital                              I)r Francis, 1 llcrow                   spraying regime etc
'Iel: 07 - 22026                                                             *    Toledo District has the highest munrlber r,f cases of
"sl nria and the VCU considcers tbis is itl p2rt uIlie to
under reporting in other Districts followirig reduiced
government speriding
*    Comcerned that drainage proposils will not be aderquate
dtie to the low lying positiotn of the land aro.,n,d the
Sotith West Magoon Drain
Toledo Institute for D)evelopment arid     Will Mehia                        *    Mr Melaia srw no environraerutal aind/or ecological
the Environment (ir)EF)                    Mr Meemian, Independenit                 oncerns.
Maifs Middle Street                                                          *    It was pointerS oit, howevcr that threre Were BlacIk
T'el: 07- 22274                                                                    1lowler Monkeys prestert st thc soutrherr edgc  of town)
and that care should be taken not to destroy trecs
unnecesstrily when  upeadirae tIne drain
ESTAI'P                                    John Mcgill                       *     It was not thought that there would be any
Main Middle Street                         ILucilla Ellis                          environmental problertn  associated with the new
Tel: 07 - 22007                            I)arlene Middleton                      drainage works, however, the presence of the lBlack
Mr Mcertuan, Independent                I lowler Monkeys was reiterated.
SAN                Town Bot-ard                           _    Mayor, 'I'own Clerk, ForeuTran    *      lle 1owri 1oard infor-ned the project team of the
IGNACIO                                                        I 61acrow Study-Tacm                    areas within the towrn that they corisidered have a
SAN'I'A                                                                                                flooding probehnm
FE-LE"'NA                                                                                        *    Other general problems were discussedi siuch as the
issue of waste collection
Doc No 0  v O Di. tty t999  150
F \iV\tnvrert  A                                      doc



'tOWN                 ORGANISATiON AND                               A'lNi)ANCE                           CONCERNS/MAIN COMMENTS
CONTACr l)DTAIIS                                                                                                                                          A(CT'IONS ''AKI N
'I'own Clerk                         *     'll  'lrown Clerk providrda Statenient of AccoLurits for
Mr Amlos, Independkrit                     1998/99
*     Property tax collection lia not yet heen privatised
*     It is plan-ed to put sanitation work out to coltract
Piflihi I leFlti fiurearu                     Mr I wis Goodae                       *     Sain Igriaclo drinking water extracted fromrI Macal River,
San Igriacio I lospital                       Puirbl  I lealtlr Inspector                 sand filterecd and treated with Chlorine
Tel: 09 -- 22122                               Ms Drilake, Ilalctow                 *     75% hooiselAolds drink piurified water airyway
*     Rele Morenro rollects septage and dilsposes ofit at
western larrlidll site (Se notes for_n 
Water arnd Sewerage Aritliotity               Denirs MAIdleton                      *     'lire Clief ilgileer was trot avalahlie but we  er_e
Liberty Street                                Office Supervisor                           taken to see tre dItriking water souirce arid chlorinatior
Tel: 092 2154                                 D)r Francis I lalerow                       unit.
Vector Conatrol IJiuit                        Mr Roverro (Assistarit                *     Infurtnratir..i given ort nuirrrhers of raralaria itir-irl-ces
San Ignacio F lospital                        Stipervisor)                                etc
'eT  09 - 220966                              Dr Franicis,  lalcrow                 *     Descrihed iJ V gaiI larvicidal progairrrec practised ir
Ms Dulatre, I lalcrow                      lleaire
Septage Disposal Company                      Rene Moreno                           *     Septagr fromir Sari Igrnacio arid ilenqire are dslp-osed of
Tel 09 24262                                   Ms Drlhake, I lalerow                      in 2 special pond at the westerni landfill sut Ietweer
Cell: 014 - 8241                                                                          19enq.re a.... Sara Igrnacin
*     PG septage is drsporsed of at 2 special agricrl tir-al
slation 6 rTarles otrt of town on tfie Daigrrga Road
*     Dli,pagga septage is disposed of alorit 2 ineles belhind
airstrip (Melfida areal
Sacred I leart College, S urvey Street        SchocI tearher                        *     3 4 years ago the school fruIt Somie drains to reheve
Dt Francis, I lalcrnw                      flooidrrig
Ms Dlilake I lalIrow                 *     O(re of tire drains stops at the roadi atid has tn outlet              strain to flew drarris
*     Water hacks rp from dririri, birt It IS riot a Mrrajor
problem, ever, during I Innricanre Mitch
*     lire schlool sfoes not presently stiffer firoia floorlifig
*     Watcr does not stand lorg errn-rgh to re a he,all htb7ard
*     Not tioticed decrease in attendanace of schirol children
Doc Not tin O Dare m, itgOt   151
F \Wr/\Prrv,rcinrrrrnio ~Arrrnn,cia\trin,ari:\rtrbrp\tieporr\F,irniYn  doc



Table 15.2       Social Survey results for Corozal
1             2              3             4       I    5
|Area Surveyed             North East       Santa Rita  3rd Street  College Road ISan            Total
Magoon Drain  Road Area  North Area and G Street Andreas
Area                                      South Area   Road Area
|NO Houses Surveved       !                       6           10           21             8
Cess pit                  1       0                             7          6                       18
:                  ~~~                                              ~       ~~~I  .  I8
ISeptic tank               1       7             9            1             19            4        39
IPiped water suppl        |           7          16           10            19            8        60
Flooding type
IHouse Flooding                   O        1    2             2             3            0         7
lPiot Floods                      3        1    11            8             17            7        46
IRoad Floods                       3             3            1       |     1             2        10
IMain PToblems fromn Flooding
Damage tohome                                    6            1             1            1      |   1
iDamage to land/crops              3       |      9           7             10            4        33
iDamage to car                     1              1                         2                       4
|Causes health problems            3             3                          6             2         22
i                            I
Access problems                   2              2                   i                    1         5
Spoils water supply            .           J _                                                      0
ICauses quarrels                   1                           1                                    2
Children cannot go to              1                                                                1
Ischool
IRoads are damaged                 3              4           2      |      4                       13
Unpleasant Smells                 2              4            5             7             2        20
IOther                             1                                                                1
|Construction Concerns
|Access                            4        |     5                          1       |           |  10
Noise                             3              7                          2                       12
IDust                              6             10            6            10            2         34
Disruption                                                                 1                           1
7Cost                              2                              -                                  2
Other
Do No. Q R:O  D- MOP 1999 153
*)



Table 1;.3        Social Survey Results for Orange Walk
1               2                 3                4        |Total
Area Surveyed                 Tangerine   Cinderella Street   Ziricote Street Area to South
Street Area  /Dunn Street Area Area              of Pond
No Houses Sur-veved                                 12                5                8             32
Cess pit                           3                5                 2                7             171
Septic tank                        4                7                 3                1             151
Piped water suppl[                 5                12                 5               8             30
Flooding type
House Flooding                      1               1                  3               2              7
[Plot Eloojs                        7                7                 5               8             27
Road Floods                        3                3                  1               1              8
Main Problems from Flooding
Damage to home                      1               2                                  3             10
Damage to land/crops                5               4                  4               4             17
IDamage to car                      2                                                                  31   3
|Causes health problems             3                5                 3               4              15
Access problems                     2                1                 2               3              8
Spoils water supply          T      1                                                                  1
Causes qu,arrels                                                               I
Children cannot go to school                                           1                               01
Roads are damaged                   3                1                 2                1              7
Unpleasant Smells                   3    1           2                 1               1
Other                                                                                                  0
lConstruction Concerns
lAccess                                      1             1            1               1              4
INoise                          _             _                 i               1_ _             1      1
* Dust                              7                3          T       2               4              16
Disruption                                                              1               1              2
Cost                                                 1    1             1               1              3
Other                                                                                                  0
D- S. 0 RF- , .t    o 19 154
F           



Table 15.4       Social Survey Results for San Ignacio/Santa Elena
1         i         3           Total
Area Surveyed                    John Martinez Road Salazar Street Area -
Area - San Ignacio   Santa Elena
INo Houses Surveved                       15                    7                22
Cess pit                                  5                     5                10
ISeptic tank                               10                   2                12
1Piped water supply                       14          [         6          {     20
iFlooding type
iHouse Flooding                            4                    2                6
IPlo- Floods                               10                   4                14
tRoad Floods                               12                   5                17
Main Problems from Flooding
Damage to home                             5                    2                7
Damage to land/crops                       8                                     8
Damage to car                              2                                     2
Causes health problems                     8                    1                9
Access problems                            7                                     7 7
Spoils water supply                                                              0
Causes quarrels                            11
Children cannot go to school               4                    1                5
Roads are damaged                          8                    1                9
Unpleasant Smells                          5                                     5
Other                            [                                                0
Construction Concerns
Access                                     4                    2                 6
Noise                                                           1                 1
Dust                                       5                    49
Disruption                                                                        0
XCost                                       3
Other                                                                             0
Doc NoO Rc O D..: M. 1999 lii
F \W/e\Erzao,mcA DOt\so c vbp\ pr\=_o.o



Table 15.5     Social Survey Results for Benque
1                   2                     3            ITotal
Area Surveyed                George Street       Liberty Street      Area adjacent to
Central Main Drain
No Houses Surveyed                    10                  4                     13                 27
Cess pit                                                  0                     1                  13
Septic tank                           8                   4                                        2 14
Piped water supply                    10                  4                     13                 27
Flooding type
House Flooding                        0                   0                      7                  7
Plot floois                           3                   2                      9                 14
Road Floods                           2                   4                     10                 16
Main Problems from Flooding
Damage to home                                   .                                                  2
Damage to land/crops                                      2                      4                   6
Damage to car                                                                                        2 2
Causes health problems                                    2                      4                   6
Access problems                                                                 2                   2
Spoils water supply                                                                                  0
Causes quarrels                                                                                      0
Children cannot go to school                                                     3                   3
Roads are damaged                                                                3                   3
Unpleasant Smells                                                                4                   6
Other                                                                                                0
Construction Concerns
Access                                 12                                         1                  4
Noise                                  1                   1                     2                   4
Dust                                                                              2                  2
Disruption                                                                                            0
Cost                                                       1                      2                   3
Other                                                                                                 0
Do-N.i F- O Dae My ID99 156
F                                 N-eXEnoamunta n  doc



Table 15.6        Social Survev Results for Dangriga
1                 2                   3          ITotal
Area Surveyed                     Sabal Street ArealSt Vincent Street  Penn Road Area
lArea                                  l
No Houses Surveved                        6                  17                  4                  27
Cess pit                                  3                  10                  2                  15D
Septic tank                       |       32 1                                                      101
Piped water supplv                j       6                                       =174
Flooding type 
House Flooding                    !       2        |         9                   2                   13
iPlot Floods                      1        4                 11                   3                  18
[Road Floods                               4        j        15                   0                  19
Main Problems from Flooding    _7
|Damage to home                            3                  5                   1                   9
Damage to land/crops                       3                  7                   1                  11
|Damage to car                       _                                                                0
ICauses health problems                    5                  12                  2                  19
Access problems                            1                  7                   1                   9
Spoils water supply                                           4                                       4
Causes quarrels                                                                             T0
-  -          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.
Children cannot go to school               2                  6                   1                   9
|Roads are damaged                I        3                  10                                      13
Unpleasant Smells                          2                  8         |         1                  11
Other                             l                                               1                    1
Construction Concerns
Access                                     2                  5                   1                   8
Noise                             1        2                  5                        1              8
Dust                                       1                  13                                     16
Disruption                                 1                  1                                        2
Cost                                                                                                   0
Other                                                                                                  1
Doc N.O F V. O Dtu M- :995 157
F \VW\Etor=nrs mtPoecXlup\72\=_o.
I



Table 15.7       Social Survey Results for Punta Gorda
I                   3           Total
Area Surveyed                    Adjacent to SW       Adjacent to NE
Magoon Drain Area Magoon Drain Area
No Houses Surveved                         8                    8                16
Cess pit                                  2                     7                9
Septic tank                               6                     1                7
Piped water supplv                         8                    8                16
Flooding type
House Flooding                             2                    2                4
Plot Floods                                8                    7                1D
lRoad Floods                               7          |4                         11
tMain Problems from Flooding
|Darnage to home                           2_                   2                4
Damage to land/crops             |         5 _                  4                9
Damage to car                             _           L         _                1
Causes health problems                     4                    3                7
Access problems                  1         5                    2                7
Spoils water supply              _         1                                     1
Causes cquarrels                                                2                2
Children cannot go to school               4                                     4
Roads are damaged                          4                    15
,Unpleasant Smels                          4                     2                6
Other  ce3                                                      2                 5
Costuction_Concerns
Access                             _                  T__                         0
NNoise                              _                                             0
Dust                                                             1                1
Disruption                                                                        O
Cost                                                            I
Other||
Do.NoC FR C D,- M- 995 158
F \W. \ Emti     t



Table 15.8        Frequency and severity of house flooding
IHOUSE FLOODING
Town             Feet above   No times per year
main floor        1    2    3    4    5          6    7    8       10 10+ No
Corozal          up to        20 1         . .22                   2  _        _                i
Orange Walk   up to           1    I    1                         - 1                 f         8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ 3+
lSan Ignacio/   up to                    2 -        1                     1                     5
!Santa Elena
____u                       il.t 3-  _   1             .If                         __7
Dangriga         up to              3                                           1    2    1     0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        2 1__ _ _                         1            1t                3
l3+2                          
Punta Gorda  -up to           1    1    2                                                        33
159I
Doc No OF. C Date 1At 1999 15;9
F:\5l;e\Envgoruxrt_ A#asmen\Pro\thDulF\Repol\Fu>!_Nov.do:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 15.9       Frequency and severity of plot flooding
PLOT FLOODING
Town           Feet    No times per year
above
ground
level
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9   10| 10+No
Corozal        up      1    1         2    8    6    2    5    4    4   11    2   65
to
21
3+=
OrangeWalk up                         1   4    6    1    2                 6    3  21
to
2                         1                         2    2    5
3 +                              1
San Ignacio/  up       1              2    1    1                1    1    2    4   12
Santa Eliena   to
2A    X                        I                    11    2
Benque         up      1          1    1    1         5               1          1   10
to
2                     ~~~~~~2          1               3
Dangriga       up      1                         3    1                3    4    1   12
to
2-                                                              1 1   
Punta Gorda   up       I                         3   _-_
to
Doc No C P O D- M 1999 160
F. \\UU cnnrorunenti Arlen 2\ Prq \*bulp \Rcport\finx_N ov.doc~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



Table 13.10     Frequency and Severity of street flooding
STREET FLOODING
Town          Feet above  No times per year
ground level
1|  21  31  41   5   61  71   8   9   10o 10+|No
Corozal       up to                                                   1  21         7
_        ~      ~~ ____  ___   _        _        _       _ - 
2                                           1   21
,S'ang Ignalko up to     1                        3     1   I         1         i    2 71
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DiSanta Elena
FL   =-    2                                            1   21         3
3+
Benque        up to                     3    13                       1   3    1  131
2                            1                    1  1     31
IDangriga     up to                I              1 | 1 2             2   2         14
i+          I=t           i         
~Punta Gorda !up to      I1 2    11                                    |1   31 -7
;      @      1   ~~~21  1}  2:                   2          -       
D.: NoO  P- C D.,e M- 1991 161



16                  Conclusions and Recommendations
16.1                Conclusions
During the BUIP study, a series of drainage sub-pro'ects were identified in six towns in
Belize, Corozal, Orange WIalk, San Ignacio/Santa Elena, Benque, Dangriga, and Punta
Gorda The drainage sub-projects have been prioritised, and a phased programrnme of
works has been put forward.
Manv of the proposals put forward in this study are improvement schemes to increase
the capacity of existing drains. The scheme does also include proposals for new
schemes.
Implementation of the sub-drainage projects will provide relief from flooding to
occupiers of properties, mostly residential but also some commercial properties, within
the vicinity of the drains, for small to moderate sized floods. (The scheme is not aimed
at relieveing storm drainage floods from high magnitude events such as hurricanes).
The drainage improvements wiL bring:
-  reduction in nuisances caused by flooding of streets and household plots, such as
inconvenience in accessing and leaving buildings surrounded by floodwater,
cleaning up after floods, loss of plants and vegetables grown in the garden,
cconcerns for the security of small children while floodwater remain,
•  reductions in flood-related damages, particularly to goods, fumiture and building
materials on the ground floor of properties, for both residential properties and
shops,
*  improvements in the amenity value of residential areas, and as a consequence the
potential increase in land and property values.
The proposals to open bidding to Belizean construction companies, which are
competent to carry out the type of engineering work required, will bring economic
benefits to the national construction industry, as well as provide some benefit to the
local economy through employment and contracting local goods and services.
DocNo 0 F- D D.,. M, MS 162
F \W,-\E-no,ao,on naF



The construction of the schemes will cause some adverse environmental impacts, some
of which can be mitigated, while others are unavoidable. Construction activities will be
a source of nuisance for nearby occupiers of residential and commercial properties,
pedestrians, including school children, and other road users. The worst of these
impacts can be mitigated through good housekeeping practices. Furthermore, local
residents often accept a certain amount of disruption where they see the long term
benefits of the project. Contractors can build upong this good will through
consultation with the local community and implementation of good working practices.
The schemes will reqwure sand, aggregate and fill materials which can be won from
existing licensed sources: however, being licensed does not necessarily mean that the
quarry has been subject to an EIA, as many quarries predate the EIA legislation. There
are known cases where existing small quarries are also associated with Maya
setdements. Contractors would have discretion where they source materials,. however
by adopting some simple guidelines, such as requiring a walkover survey by an
archaeologist, significant environmental impacts could be avoided.
In several towns, excavation works for the drains may impinge upon the archaeological
record. This problem is particularly acute in Corozal, where the modem town is largely
built over the ancient Maya setdement of Santa Rita. However the archaeological
walkover survey also identified Maya cerarnic fragments at some of the proposed
construction sites in Ora±ige Walk, San Ignacio and Santa Elena, and Benque. In these
circumstances, the approach to minimising the adverse impacts is to undertake trial
excavations, record the findings, and monitor excavation. This approach will allow
some salvaging of material and scientific recording of sites which cannot be salvaged.
However, should excavations reveal, important archaeological finds, it will be necessary
to consult the DoA and consider additional actions.
Improvements to the drainage schemes in Dangriga and Punta Gorda in Phases II and
III of construction will impact upon critical habitats, namely mangrove in Dangriga,
and swamp forest habitat in Punta Gorda which supports rare species. Here, zero
impact can only be achieved by adopting a 'Do Nothing' scenario. In order to improve
drainage, it is necessary to enlarge the existing drains, which inevitably means land
clearance. The extent of land clearance can be reduced as far as possible. Conservation
of the remaining habitats can be advanced by undertaking more detailed habitat
surveys, translocating species, and preparing conservation plans for the areas affected.
Doc N. C R,v O Datm Ma i999 163
F \ e \ Er.rStottMrrLtN Acstttettt\Ftol eces \thbsp \Report\Funl_Nov.doc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9



The improvement to the drainage system will lead to increased volumes of storm
runoff, possibly contaminated bv sullage and wastewater, discharging to rivers and the
sea. While the increased volumes and pollution load is unlikelh to have anv significant
effects on the qualitn and ecological value of the receiving waters within the context of
this project, this problem should be seen in a wider context of surface water pollution
and the need for greater pollution control. The cumulative effect of all point and non-
point discharges to receiving waters is leading to the deterioration of receiving waters
which is of concem to organisations such as the PHB and CZMLA, as well as NG'Os
and the public. In the longer term, more attention needs to be paid to implementing
the legislation on pollution control, including the discharge of wastes to the town
drains.
While maintenance problems have been considered in the design for improvements to
the drainage system, the performance of the drains will increaingly rely on the level of
maintenance undertaken bv the Town Boards. It is evident that, for various reasons,
maintenance is not undertaken as frequently as is required, and that this mav become
an increasing problem as the Town Boards have problems in raising finance.
16.2                Recornmendanons
This E.A report has put forward recommendations for a mitigation and environmental
management plan, which should be implemented in order to reduce the adverse effect
of the construction and operations of the scheme. The mitigation measures address
ways to reduce the specific environmental impacts caused by the implementation of
the scheme, while the EMP takes a wider view, proposing a series of packages to
support the implementation of the drainage proposals.
In preparing the EIA for this project, it has become clear that there are a number of
issues which should be addressed to improve environmental management in Belize,
but which are beyond the scope of this project. Particular areas of concern are:
*  land use zoning and planning control
* institutional strengthening of local government, ie the Town Boards
a  sanitation and solid waste disposal practices
Dcc NoO RF- C D.te M. 1995 164
F \ We\E-b: ol  wev  ism   P  !CSNebw    eot\F No.o



* public education on the need for development control, environmental protection,
and safe solid waste disposal
It is recomnmended that these issues are given further consideration by government.
Doc No O R.v O Dac- .M. 1990 165
F \ a/ \E oosonsank Awnen r \Fsqocs\ ob=ap \Rrporv\ Fana!_N ov.dok



List of References
Coastal Zone Management Programme, 1995. State of the Coastal Zone Reporf. Prepared bv the Coastal Zone Management
Program, Government of Belize, with assistance of United Nations Development Program and Global Environment
Facilltv.
Central Statistical Office, 1998. Abstract of Statistics. Bebr-e.
Halcrow, 1996. Belke Urban Infrastruuture Prvject Repof.
Halcrow, 199)7. Urban Infrastruaur Projec. Orange Wak: Town B)pass Stuydj
Halcrow, 1999a. Orange Walk Town Bpass. Engineenng Feasibihy RKPorr.
Halcrow, 1 999b. Orange Walk Town Bjpass. Ennronmental 1Im.pact Assessment
Halcrow 1 9919c. Beike Gy Infrastrucure Re ort
Halcrow, 1 999d. B UIP. Engzneering Report
Halcrow, 1999e. BUIP. Economics Reporn
IUCN, 1996. Red kst of ThreatenedAnimals. IUCN, Gland, 368 pp + annex
Mimstry of Vorks, Westem Highway Resealing Project, Draft Interim Report, November 1997, Roughen Intemational.
World Bank, 1991. Environmental Assessmentn Sourcebook. World Bank Technical Paper No. 139.
Do, No  R O Do M 199S 166
F \W,\E,,rom,s e



" -s



Figures



i
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I



_                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Figure 1.1
L         A. ..N.. rUo.s
'' .""  '  ! -   .. --Z                          ... ....- >- _   ~ 
t [  %   _ >~~~^h. _>  r,r       RG__ A
' >  -           t  g                      4   -E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I i  o         
.~~~~a   IgenaceV ieo/~~ .~<r, ...= a-cL. .;  =
_~~~~~~~~~~~~ DI an rmn|- igas.<  4j~;X-!L5*lrlUf
- o ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~      ~        ~      ~ ~~~~             ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ -- - ---_-----.----j----------
.<=; . W=*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- --'------------
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,. :- ------- _.:..._......5  I 2
0_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   PnaGra|t'.>'~......... .........---
,,,-- s wI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-r a ,rov * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-.....   ,   ,      ,   *_n .......... .. ......
GRAPHIC'i UNITrrHlTHBU1P01_81CD123.09.99
LOCATION MAP



I                                                                                                       I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I



Figure 2.1
Corozal
g r      ", -, G 
Orange Walk f               Wa 1 WtE
Jown                                  f                  iy
su_~        ~         ~ cj^                9 ji       LCO
AIy
Leg7end                        1   <,                  p          g                Hu>UY
1   3Dcsignated proteccLed areas  jI,9,                              -!.
j      P D  ror,osed Drot=,ted areas  ;j               
Santa Elena                       Dangr-iga  -< . ..  J
Benque Viejo DelTon,'e-^w . ,5;-
Carmen Town.-b    .. r,
/                ,s ''-'.t   ;
CAYE 7
Punta Gordaz _ tg
CTown   oei,e 
16            >/0    10   20   30   40kaT                                                                   16
.~~~~~~~~~~~ -,                                                                           C
GRAPHICS UNIT7T/TH1'HU1P20_B/CD/27.09 99                                  MARINE  AND    COASTAL
PROTECTED AREAS



I                        I               I                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I                         z
I I



Figure 4.1
L i:mr   ste ciearance
_5SCC              Bed widtI (w)                  500
Grc.rna  eve!  .>      |    |cSee trDle A                               N           I-
v~~~~~~
-   S_    A  rs                           }          _          W~~~~~~~~~~~~~nere the eitn
~~20.. WQI,5     j                ~~~~~chcnnel is greater
than the required width
of the cancl the void is
tc be filied wij:  opprove:
15C X 150 Chcrnfer                                   compacted tri.
Invert Level
Vvee~role
(Filter not shown)
C3CS Base S1,2           /                                                     75 Blirding concrete
As aire-ted Dy tne Encfneer                                                         As directed by the Engineer
opproved fill to be placet                                                            ol unsuitable materia  in the foundoation
in tne foundation to oring                                                            to be removec and replaced witr
the foundation UD to                                                                   opporoved fi'l.
to the required level.
a. EXAMPLE OF A LINED UNCOVERED DRAIN
|   150           (4W+100)                  1S5
700 x 700 x 75
ProoyLine_  RC access covert
Procerty Line  -                                     Slp I:  00I
$  }  |                 ~~~~Slope 1:100     
!  I   .                towords rooC        I
4f           i                              '   E      !cxisting Roac Level
Droinlcoe DI'e            -,j            '1.   
Orino  .iC          _                c         ccess units/  |-
35 recast R
030S Insiu RrC             <cce ss
caDoinc deam                                  1      P   pipE c-
\<              100eloc  pvc pipe-/    %{ 
200 Thi-k reinforced                                   0  l.jm  c/c
blockwors walls                                      1       c
Weeonole                                   IL Vi
(filte- not shown)                                  IL Vories
030S Insitu                       :S                       ..g- -1
RC base slab
Blinaing loyer                            Bed Width (W_
(See Table A)
(W + 500)
b. EXAMPLE OF A LINED, COVERED DRAIN
GRAPHIC'S UNTlTrrH/HBUl`2'_8C0127 09 99                          EXAMPLES OF CROSS-SECTIONS
THROUGH LINED DRAINS (a)



I



Figure 4.2
,200                Voriezes               200
Rood Level                         See ae-ol s cr tne 
Scheciu e ac' St,uczjres
s II,                                              I
r5C  >~030S  ins'tu
g     Chormfer                             RC culver,
Weepnoie @  2m  c/c
l    I   <            ~~Invert Level        ,     - 
(For furthe, details of
Blinding lover L                                                 culvert arroncemrens see
Dwg. No WH/UIP/GEN/710)
a. EXAMPLE OF A BOX CULVERT
C35 Precast R.
Road Level                          struts @ 2000 c/c  -                                         Oraurd Leve
C30S  nsiltu RC
capping beam
.CN o        / <                                                   (//200 Thick reinforced
D.ocKwork waiis
Weephole
Invert ievel                                       (filter not snown)
R" base slab
|  1             ~~~2000                               |     Blinding layer
_                ~~~~2500-
b. EXAMPLE OF A LINED DRAIN WITH STRUTS
GRAPHICSUNITTrHlTHBUIP22_8CD1270999                            EXAMPLES OF CROSS-SECTIONS
THROUGH LINED DRAINS (b)



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                                       I
I                                       I



Er
z
Z
________________Limit of site clearance     _
,&                                                                     ~~~~~      ~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~Varies  1 000
n                                                     5CtO  ,e  Of orotl    -urfce of dr- inEin
o                                                     to be grossed      4   |                     f  trossed  o ssed             Ground Level
I   Invert Level
800
a. EXAMPLE OF A SIMPLE UNLINED DRAIN
m
0    3:                                                                                                    Surface of connl
C: -u                                                                                                        to be grossed
I)  r-_                                                                                       Limit of site clearnce
cnr   Embankment Level                                                                                                                          _es I00
1000     yar__e______                                        Varies00_________
Existing         2                                         Surfocebnkment                                              2%
mC)                ;Ground Level                                                            V .  be grossed       _ -                                :            - -
z  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                      +0.10
M     X                                                                                                                                         compacted~~copaced
t compctedJ                                                                                                                  1   Invert Level          corfpi cted
Z C)                                                  fill
cn ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22
C) q                                                                    b. EXAMPLE OF AN UNLINED DRAIN WITH EMBANKMENTS
O                                                                                                                                                                                                      CD
z
Z/ 



I



I ,mx  nix2n  Gohion biskets,
40 No. on the lower level,
14 No. on the uppor level
zN                                          Limnit o               laid on a geotextile                                                  4aembrone 
-i                                                Lined Drain 
I  (Ch 0 -903)     t      -   _, _                                                                       dept  tipe  rok 4000
aI No  1lnxo imx almrn  Gobion                                                               l                ebrn
bus bsket  on     thc I tower I .. I
loid on    e qeotextile  o(e,li/
me m embrane                    ;                             o  basket
Incoming .__ ( ,)\i S/) tD/  \..   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                    0  d e th    ip e d   ro c k 0  2 
;!1   i                   \            : 150          X  '>i 1 -1'°~~~~~~~~~~lad° Oil a gleoleexdlilfe°
basket on the lower                                           2000   10iO|OC0mmrn
level (aid on a geolex(ife  |_ _ __         Z 
membrane             ---             ]rTlXllx2m C4bion boskels,
40 No. on the uower level,
14 No. on the upper level
loid on a Veolextile membrane
Limit ot
O                                                    lined Droin
C  9                                                (Ch 0+903)
n1  Z                                                                                  11IL=+50.701
>    >                                                                                             50169             Ground Level
r z                                                      IL +51.0
r)                                                              v=5 V                                  >t-R- + > +49 .10jll7
0                                                                                                     +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j4O  4 .76 lmxlmx2m
2: CI)                                      x                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gabion boskets
>  M     IY
z    0                                                                                                      4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  L- 48.31 0  -500 depth tipped rack
m    0                                                                         Memb(ane-                                                                           It-l+46.750
-n_                                                                                       



I                                                                                                       I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I
I                                        I



hub   ',nj'ctl do/rnito,m to/n/n Prn owD mmi, tiy o, II y
lie.. Moridni, 10 00400) ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    Dmro                           riis
- 1. _rjL~ i 1                            -                                    1                                                     -                                            - - - - -- ..                  _-              -   -   .   -   - .  .   -   -  --                  - - -   
I  PRASE I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~317 di/   Mur, 13/03/00   thu 01/6/M
21Pre Consttrootion A//ivities                         30, doyi  Mo?) 13/03/00   TuO D2/05/00
3               boron~~~Ilu  Conl/mob DonUrneoto            0 dun~ Han   3(01n10Q  MQ,, 13/0300                                         +  lN3u
4               ~~~~~~Tender Peoriod                         4 vino  tien 14/0/00   Mon 10,04/00            
0               ~~~~~~Tender ADrulrnu2t                        wk,  Tion oNI I T40   Mon 0I1/05100
6               ~~~~~~Aw;ird conurriruo                      I div   tic 1J?JU1,S/0   Too, D2'0501i)
7Constbruction Perlod                                 260 days  Tin, O061000  Tho 07/00(191
a                     Co1`07al T,,wn                            00 drtys  ThuO 01/060/0  Vied 04/10/itQ
0                          Scuth Poot Magoon iOrIn                10 who    Tho 0l,UCIOO  Wed [14 10/W0
10                  ~~~~~~~~Soufth Pust Magoon Extens on  I10 w$rr  Thu 01/00/100  Vied 00/06/00
lb                  ~~~~~~~~Nnrbh Eurt Mgooto, Dhmi        10 whor  Thu 011010/0  Wend 04/10/Oh 
12                  ~~~~~~~~North Enst Megonn  Urens/or,   10 whos  Thn W01/00/00  uVed 09/00100
i13                   O/rungen Walk Town                        260 days  Tluu 01/06/00  Ttiuu 07/06101
id                         D/unn Street D/rain                    02  hOs  Thui 0i/00/00   Thu 0/1060/0                        
13                  ~~~~~~~~San [orenzo, /ruin             20 who   Thu) 01/0/1(r) V/o,b 18/10/00 
10              ~~~~~~San Ignacio Town                    100 days  Thtu 01/00/00   Thui 04/01101                                                           ,
I?                         John Martinez Rd DiAmn                 30) m,,kr   Thu 01/00/00   Thou 04/01/0/
10               B~~~~~Strqo nlun   Vi l r31armen Town    160 days  Thu 01/00I00   Thtu 10/101/01                                                                                                                
10                  G~~~~~~~~emn1-I Mu/n D/rain            32 who   Thu 0t/00/00   iht 10/0,1/0i                                                                                                              
30              ~~~~~~Darngrlqa Town                      240 dO/un  Thu O061//00  Tlhu 1O0510/1'
2?                 ~~~~~~~Jothn Creeh C/oitl               20 who   Thu 01/00/00  Wed 10/10/00
22                  ~~~~~~Pe"n Street Canal                110 vAn   Thu 10/10/00   Thu 30/04/01
33                         idonuonulh Cteeh ((tnoe                40 who   Thu 01/00/0    Thu 10/05,11/
4                   O~~~Cutflnb improvenent,,d             4 whko   Tti/n 02/O01/1  Mon 29101/01           
3   ~~~~~~~~Gitnbd Mocluoures                               4 who  Mon 0/04/0i    rr4 2T004/01              
:~~~ j   ~~~ PuntIa Gorda Town                            100 da,ys  Thu 01/00/00  Tlou 04/01/01
27  ~~    -    --   l4~~ornl EnnI Magoon D/ra/n            30 who   lb,1 O0100000   liii, 04/01(00
1 1 r~~j'inb/  Tot'.  t'~117.uj~I~(¶~>    (r.u3/u.o    en.,-n.nremu.r-n,-,o    ,ommnn.v          ,r~~cn~-n.~n~'v    [oil'. i/o '/1/i.1,1/nd /1/ /'wn/'-,o                                     ~      ~          ruejool Too,r.un/y
Ir-(1     I3                         nh.                                                            Ot./   Ii-I                                 "    ',O010-          Iri.rI lloo"'-/n,, 



I           I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I        I



V              PHASE I                                          403 3                                                                                                                            I
IPie S.,,   td,A,,,.*.-
1                     fueler PPtAod t                              ays
5   ~,t,              TuiesTdr Appratl,l                         4 ilz  
e3                    A-urd co-ttasi I, dj 
7                Constirctiop, Peilo-l                        7d5 rliyi                                  - -_
e                     Corozaf Town                            100 d.ays
S    3                    Cutuip 0Rd                            20 v.'A                                                                                                                                                                                                 i
30t                   Orarige W,al Towrn                      130 days                                                                                 _                       -----
I1     .                   Tanugrito  Slreot Drain              28 wi(s                                                  qTVIF TUM M".                                                      l
12                     San glgico Town                         o0 daIys
13   ,,wt,                 Goorge Puce Avenue                    12  k,kv
14                         Outfall to rSteer George St            0 wkq                                                  I
15                         Salulur Street                        32 vksw
to3                   .enique Vtela Del Cammen Town           tiO doys
__ I    t,                 George St                             18 wks
18                         Liberty Street Dtvin                 20 wkin
____                  Dangtiga Towwn                          245 lays
20                         Lakeland Canal from Subal St to C     24 wk:s                                                | !Pyi                                                        qXt7
2i                         Sabal St Caonal                       36 wks                                                                                                                   F        ;I  11"'Irnr,   .4         ,ww
22                     Punta Gordta Town                      210 daysi
23                         South Sad, Mognuon Minle              32 whoj                                                                                                                                                              I'f
Oita: W oed 0311 i                    _    P S,,                                     Mile'ton!                                  R oied DU Tiok       |                     P I  l L;) U toil ur C,                   Ertiewl ratok
_   _  .  _   _ _  _   .   _   .  _ __   .-   .   . -  ..--                                                                                                                                          .. _------*--  .--  .. .- .-- . _ . ._ _ ..._-_



w                                                                                                                                    l            t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



(le. Monday to Ftid,Jy)
_____                                                                            lb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N  dat~r onppcificd lor stait of phaoe III
PHASE III                                                    G5dyv                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I---
Pr!~e Corr;lmclioo Activlflrs                                     4r% arYr
4    '7.~~~~~    Thodcor Oo:Iod                                         4 YAj
~~~~~~  ~  ~      vdr~d    Apimipr' so!o                                                    4 Ar .:rc .o                , -
0               ~~~~~~AA-rd coOre,cr~                                   I dsY
7Constr,uction Period                                            11.3 r1ay,
8                0~~~~~~orozalI Town                                1EO div,y 
73                       Sanota   Ri rd                                   ?0 -A4, 
10  3                    San And,ei RoI'1dralr                            15 VA.  's
II   7                      3,d Skre   aet I, o                              1 4M.s
12               So~~~~~tn Iqrnaoln Town                             103 doys
ii                  ~~~~~~~~Sev-nos  Stradt [)mb                      50 wlo-8                                                                                    4 ~ ~ ~ 1~' 
4                          Srornnais Sirp met OnSt                            0 w4inIU                                                                                                                                                                                   MIi
¶5               Oc~~~~~1entoq   Vtejo tInt Cientim Town              On1 doyys
It                          Wyadvtt St to noltll                            12 A
Ii-                    Dltqigtka Town                                      150 dayso 
tO    73            ~~~~~~Abonilder Contl                             24 M:-~I 
18    73            ~~~~~~St \Ancent Streeot sire drtains             303A,'r                                                                                     i""IW
20   73             ~~~~Commrmerr  Street lIde drains                 .03 wtm.                                                              Ir ill ~T7M          M-lTr T           ,l   -77       "TI"  P 'Tt    "          7!r1        W         
21 7,3                   Lir,,bnod Cnat (SIewr Croekl I Sibal St)         IOwtM:s 
22                          molrthi Rd                                       1C edw s
1r5 iVV'Ari0`/111f0'                      5t  ''i''rI                                                                                      r~!. I-_                               I ol-'p VI;:,-                                   ,    .



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    i                           II                   I



Figure 6.1
~~-   -    - -   - -    - -7--  - - -- -                - -f -  - -j -
,'S o,~~~~ nos 1/EN                              I:~A- Om 
F t    Xaibe                / \                :''      ;'   = =~;t.                                                  '  ''''
_ /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                  -          ,,  C 'R 
\.  ( s  .  xi   i       ,   AS                                    P.4rw. i'C'-
- 2  It        -           --  - -  -    - -- -"--. - .- .- ..- ....- ...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .S  rX_..............3  i..,,.. 1                             ... .
,  F s   4;9-z:        5 o.            ~~ ~ ~~Sl I1-                       53               54556
-jR i   .  .  -        j         --     --4----      -
------ "                                                      .- .........
5_   _        ,=  - Jn   _  _ ,    ff   OlME .'<l2 E      - - - ----..
X4~ ~ 44
X   ,e.t  )         - -  lW c,OOrq  ,               ,            >~~~St 
~~~c~~                   -*                                                            IIWJC-ttLI>v 
M              _  :  ~~~~~~~~~~~--- 2   -----------   --- --- - ---  -z --.-.- '  ..
-~~~~.                                      *(4C      tTt;!".                                         I    ..        FX C
Can :'i         *%>  '           _,r&n  r   3_1               Xl      ,~
MILL:~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
:N,  _C-:">;;.  'Z',et'  _   1v     t?l .                                 '                                            "'
GFiAPHICS/THBUIP42 BJCFF/26,10.99
COROZAL LOCATION MAP



S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 



1K                  '~~~~                                                  I   -        MagOOflUa~~-, o 
01.1,;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   da
_____________________________________                                                                                             p
E*tens©                     3dSicet0p
Notth Eastda
ji                                                           ago   ofatil~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
It~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
Cot~~~~~~~~ege Road ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



I                                                                                                                               



Figure 7.1
IND IAN  HILL
1<    ..2..~ I--.--7---
.... ....... .       .....          ....... ... ... .
...__. .  >TtlFr tb ........  ....     .   . ...............  .   . .....-                          - --... .                             ..........
. .~~~~~~~   _ _ _   .~~~~~~~~~~~~   -             .     .. ......   ........
Trial Farm         .
ORANGE WALK                                                                                     W .    .   . /
-.                                      i                   -, --                               1;---                                        . /          .
_~~~~~~~~._._ . .  ......                     ......____.. ... ._ .   ,__.,,. ............. _.._   ....__ ....... ..._ ...
/                            +S2                                          .           :8  &        +S3                D~~~~~S2  5
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -4---
Q"ay~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r .f *j
I                                                                                                    i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~......... .. _ __ .....                                                                                   ....... . ---- ....  ~ _-~.DO23. ...... .___.__........ ... _.
an Jose Palmarn       238
Tres Brazos
Bound To Shine
3 0                                           Ri,  ,,h2jdgneR>2,,    !     
Scale 1:50,000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bide(T1~
GRAPHICSITHbUIP47_&CFFR127.10.99
ORANGE WALK LOCATION MAP



I                                      I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I



Figure 7.2
Tangerine Street
S~~~~~~~~~J
~~~~~7?~                                                                        - -                           X Lj   ~H  _ 
QniS~~~~~~~~~~L ~ 5t2jl e'                                                        r                            \           (S)      Scoo
\ \             X                ir dG]   ~~~~~~~~~~Opten Spacee
mullas~~~~~~~
San Lorenzo                                                                                                                                                                  Oe  ie   ri
Road Cuilvert                                                                                                                                                               Coveed_lned_rai
nrCrossing                                                                                                                                                                      bxcle
Ce                                                                                                                            X   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Culvert crossing
Now bridge
New river oullall
/                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Landusn
Pond                                       Zii       Commnercial
lOu r)lr                                              Public buildings
sc~~ a u sovv~~~~~                       ()I4O ANGE  W~ALK  'I'IOVVN                                                                                  [t      Iliospitalthealth cenitres
(J  Governmenrl
LI]  Open Space



I            I                I 



Figure 8.1
>G  ,- .  X   e/7   J~..5         .!>       t<<_;  
"  sr-X;  SAN IGNA         loi|    . ~~~~~Ce-ew;"C
= >'< ' !--2-- '§~~~~Inca i
..___ ',M'; ge ,, s wt r^'' ''~~~~~~~~~~ 1 0;  t7>'5n s '_.'-5'_!
SANSA IGGNOAOSNT   EEN
SANLOCTIO ELEN



P~~~ I 



Figure 8.2
<1 ~,
__ _ . __ </-(=~ i-U " \ \ Gl                         Public buildiGgs
/    ti  1<       ! 0                         ecp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~( Church
to Benque ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---  ____~~~veueDri
Weslcrri  llig wvay  ~                                                    )_ A  G  Governmenit
to Ber________---                      o  m  sA t  _o  .  ou      Open  Space
::tX                                                                 01~~~~~~~~~~~~~rpoe



I                                      I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                     I



Figure 9.1
_ -, , '~~~=_= ;;:t,, ,., 
.. .. .. .                                                                        .. . '.C j _X   s   a X o; ............................ !
.   - 6c   , O    . .  /  s   , ;. ~~~~~~~~~ 1 .'D CJK*l,_ _                          --
- I;|DE AMN  |-S.- '- i  -   
.___ _    _ .- -t o 'to.
G ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- _
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JA
BENQUEEJO
DEL CAREP
89                      4(r'-s                 4         t      "
Ef~~~~~               % C,
* ,4 A J                      
"'  --8-&        a                        f
-  -  .'r.~~~~*',a  *~~~*~  .    I  er   I12
Ga &us'                                '
r~
/  \                   IAe
-                                     I--.---
7~ ~ ~~j7,~'~i                      ~                  jA
- AP ICSr BUP WC F2   10 99
BENQUE VIEJO DEL CARMEN
LOATO  MAP,t   V*l-                             



I
I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                              I



Figure 9.2
Liberty Street                        /-Central Main
Drain                                                        Dai
Wyatt Street/ 
George Street                                                                   t
Drain                         /"~5>
£                       ~~~BENQUE VIEJO
DEIL CARMEN T'OWN
4~~~~~~~~~~~~4Y ~ ~ ~ ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~          E
Open nlinied drain
Covered lined drain
_____ Box culvert
x       Culvert cro*sing
X   New bridge
New river oulfall
Laniduse
EZJ  Comm-ercial
-   Public bujildings
C)Chiurch
/~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 61)                                                        t lospital/healIli cenlres
0  1~~   20))   300   00))   50)                 ~~~~(c)  Governmntci
scot * 50)0)                 otw                                          rees/Woodlafid



I                   I



L   .. .....  ..  .   .. ,  .._..    . .,  .    ..... Z.....   .. . . ...
0)                                                                                                                                   Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ooe    i)e!
|L                                                                                                          K                                          1t      0    9 - '      - 
' '3X->s-N                                                                     I     .          iX               ,'       -. 
ILf                 0  :                     W Ht_FI L |I
/
V90i9NVCl~                                                     oohr  ~UJ
(  ___________    I~~~~~~~~~~7
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
1.                                          /       0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
6L                                             ---     --                                ..
I,                     a"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
F       ''  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



F   F                                                                                                           ,            t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Pigure 10.2
St Vincents Street
Road Drains
Havana Creek
Comimerce Street
Road Drains                                                                                                                                0
Canal~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~_                                                             boads~                                           anl         ~         ~         *~
Pen St cet                                                                                     Open unlined drain~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Saa]Stee  t
4        f                           embankmenna
Sireet         Canal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                          Open ulined drain
Covered liined drain
Box culvert
Culvert crossing
U5~~~~~~~~~~                     I                                       H ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ New bridge
Melinda Road'           __             L2        9                I    II                                             New river outfall
Canal                                                                                                     Laridaise
II                       EZIZI   ~~~~~~~~Cemnmercial
U   Public buildings
-$l School
D)ANG RIGA  TIOWN                                                                              ()       Chiurchi
a  ri    Ori   ro   rIo    5                                                                                                                                 (Hi)    IlospilallhLalili centres
SCAtE 1.5000  METRrs                                                                                                   (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G)  Government
111 Open Space
(P    A.IPhgah2192l



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I



-----  ---                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ----- -----
~~~ri.~~~~~~i..iii     ~~~~~~~~~~  I                              I                                                    I~~~~~~~   .......           
I,  I    ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         0……                                              …      .    …    --     (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------
.. .. .  -- --
-------   ---~-z+-
5q .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I



Figure 11.2
_KEY
Open unlined drain
_____ Open lined drain
Covered lined drain
1~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~Box culvert
|        Culvert crossing
H       New bridge
==      Now sUulall
LancdusO
=ili       Commercial
Public buildings
(lS)     School
(ri      Chufch
(k       HospitaVltrealth centres
GO overniieren
rzi  Open Space
South West                  K                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Trees/Woodland
Magoon Drain                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lFeom Aw,-I Ph.t.ur.ph 2rr93l
-1__1                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~North E.ast
Magoofi Drain
S E                                                                                  dr;rii
o m                         rr30 TGhrS0-  -
P"UN'I'A GOIZDA T'OWN



I                                      I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                     I



Figure 14.1
GRPI~THUT4  8C;28 1099
LAND SUBDIVISION AROUND THE GRA GRA LAGOON,
DANGRIGA



I               I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                         I



Figure 1 4.2
:l.~ 4. _                '                                   rI-J
_a                                               fate_                   Drcin
b _bZ  l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|-~~~.                           .> .........-i'lgon,.:-'..
+ masts
&~~~~~. 9  Yfi.ut:::*+
!.,'o  |  .    t  *   .    .  '.  .
*                                                  1-       -- ---           
GRAPHICS/THCUIPSC_8/CF12BC 'O99
LAND SUBDIVISION ALONG THE SOUTH WEST
MAGOON DRAIN, PUNTA GORDA



I
I                                                                           I



Plates



I                        I



a. View of North East Magoon Drain looking upstream from            b. View of drain adjacent to 6thi Street North facing upstream       c. View of 3rd Street North Drain looking towards North East
4th Avenue                                                                                                                                Magoon Drain
d. View of 3rd Street North Drain facing sea outfall                e. South West Magoon Drain- College Road Area                         f. View of College Road facing west
iX1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



$ X~~~



a. Looking towards house that floods - Ziricote Street            b. Looking towards back of local flood spot from                  c. Looking towards corner of Oak Street / Royal
Mayflower Street                                                 Palm Avenue
r                                               -J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
d. View towards the New River floodplain from                      e. View down Cinderella Street looking towards junction with Mejiba Street
Tangerine Street



I
I            I



a. View of John Martinez Road from Junction with          b. View of bottom of John Martinez Road (San Ignacio)     c. View of drain adjacent to Munoz Street (bottom of John
Old Benque Road (San Ignaclo)                                                                                       Martinez Road) (San Ignacio)
e* View of Riverside Road (Santa Eiena) looking towards
Salazar Street
d. View of Salazar Street Drain from entrance                                                                                          f. View of position of proposed outfall
to football pitch (Santa Elena)                            t                    hP   _     _                                           (Santa Eiena)



I                            I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I



a. View of church on George Price Boulevard showing                                                                   c. View of mesh at end of culvert adjacent to George
water marks
b. View of lined drain adjacent to
George Price Boulevard
L''=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I 
d. View of box culvert (central main drain) situated between school buildings    e. View of commercial outlet on corner of Victoria Street I
St Joseph Street
Wi                                                                                                                                h. View of positionB ofproposed outfall



I                                                                                                                                                         I



a   ie  o Cmercial Street from St    rek Bridge                                                   upt        rm  tVnetRoa
b. view of HavanDa Creek
Bridge                facinlg LPtmfo    tVnetRa
c. View Of ru bi
from Jetty pie  in   ngro     e
d. View of par, of -r   r   ee~e(
Gra  Gra Reserel5   
e.View lowrdRia
E e aoss Lakeland Canl  Bride



I                            I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I



a. View of South West Magoon Draln facing upstream from         b. View of South West Magoon Drain                           c. View of South West Magoon Drain
Robert K Perrel Street Bridge
3k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
d. View of North East Magoon Drain facing upstream             P. View of North East Magoon Drain from Main Middle Street
facing upstream
f. View of Main Middle Street Cuivert facing upstream          g. View of North East Magoon Drain facing upstream             h. View of Culvert under restaurant
,~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                          W  i.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I



A         Terms of Reference



I                            I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          I                            I



BELIZE URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I        INTRODUCTION
These Terms of Reference have been prepared by the Government of Belize to
identify the scope of work required to undertake an environmental impact assessment
of the Belize Urban Infrastructure Project.
The Ministry of Works (MoW), Government of Belize wishes to appoint Consultants to
prepare an environmental impact assessment of the proposed scheme to meet Belize
requirements as given in the Environment Impact Assessment Regulations 1995, and
the guidelines of the World Bank as described in the World Bank Environmental
Assessment Sourcebook (1991).
2        BACKGROUND INFORMATION
2.1      Overview
In 1996 the Urban Insfrastructure Project (UIP) was undertaken to assess
infrastructural needs (drainage, roads, coastal defence, sanitation etc) in the major
towns of Belize. The Belize Infrastructure Needs Assessment and Feasibility Report
for an Urban Infrastructure Project highlighted the need for drainage works in seven
towns:
* Belize City
* Dangriga
* Punta Gorda
* Benque Viejo del Carmen
* San Ignacio/Santa Elena
* Orange Walk, and
* Corozal
Drainage works for Belize City have been forwarded as a separate project called the
Belize City Infrastructure Project. This project is concerned with the drainage needs of
the remaining six towns.
2.2      Dangriga
Dangriga is situated on the coast at the mouth of North Stann Creek some 70 km south
of Belize City. There is no coast road between the two cities, and traffic reaches
Dangriga via Belmopan along the Hummingbird Highway.
Dangriga has a population of about 7,100 (1994). The town is located on flat, low lying
land. The old part of the town was settled on a natural sand ridge about 0.9 to 1.5 m
above sea level, and the town has extended into areas of low lying reclaimed marsh.
The sea front is a sandy beach which is fed with sediment from North Stann Creek by
longshore drift.



Surface water drains to John Creek at the north end of town, North Stann Creek in the
centre, Havana Creek towards the southern end, and the sea. North Stann Creek and
Havana Creek are interconnected by a canal which is blocked in places.
The UIP study identfied a number of problems with land drainage and flooding in
Dangriga. Natural drainage is impeded by the low gradients of the subdued
topography. Water flow in the creeks is not always sufficient to maintain self-cleansing
velocites resultng in siltabon. Moreover coastal longshore drift contributes to siltation
in the mouth of the creeks. Some of the creeks are choked with vegetabon which also
reduces discharge and the interconnectng canals are also partly blocked. In some
locations, road side drains are not contnuous and have no or poor outfalls, causing
localised flooding durng rain storms. There are also concerns about the quality of
water in the drains and creeks due to the lack of wastewater collection and treatment
from properties.
A number of drainage works have been proposed for Dangriga including:
*  Drainage of John Creek and other drains along the northern coastline by the
Municipal Pier and their possible connection to North Stann Creek
*  Drainage of Lakeland and Rias State areas
*  Drainage of new areas to the west of town
*  Dredging of North Stann Creek and the mouth of Havana Creek, and a possible
connection between them.
2.3       Punta Gorda
Punta Gorda is the most southerly of the six towns, tying at the end of the Southern
Highway. It is a coastal town, with an estimated population of 3,800 in 1994.
The old part of town lies on the seafront and extends inland to the airstrip. The land
rises steeply from the sea and then more gradually towards the airstrip. The town is
drained by two Magoons, both of which appear to be developments of natural streams.
One rises near the airstnp and flows in an easterly direction to the sea at the northern
end of town. The second originates to the west of the airstrip and flows in a southerly
direction along the western edge of town. Surface water arising in town drains to these
two Magoons and to the sea.
The sea front is partly natural, and partially reinforced with concrete walls and gabions.
The UIP study identified drainage problems with the two Magoons. The northern
Magoon drain has insufficient capacity and causes flooding in adjacent properties.
Flooding also occurs in the western part of town which is flat and low-lying.
Proposed drainage works in Punta Gorda consist of:
*  Drainage of the main Magoon drain
*  Drainage of some E-W streets in town
*  Drainage of new areas west of town.



2.4      Benque Viejo del Carmen
Benque Viejo del Carmen is situated on the Western Highway close to the border with
Guatemala and along the southern bank of the Mopan River. The town has a
population of about 4,000 (1994).
The town is located in an area where the river has incised into the surrounding
undulating topography. Two natural streams drain the study area. The 'northern'
stream rises in high ground to the south east, flows alongside the eastern arm of the
Western Highway bypass and enters the Mopan rver at the northem end of town. The
'central' stream flows from the south, passes under the southern arm of the Western
Highway bypass, and flows through the town centre, entering the Mopan about 200 m
west of the northern stream.
The central stream is polluted from wastewater and is a potential health hazard,
especially as it flows through the grounds of a school. Localised flooding occurs where
the stream is constricted by an inadequately sized culvert. There is also a drainage
problem related to an unpaved street in the new development area.
Proposed works for Benque Viejo include:
* Drainage of open drain from the school grounds to the river, including a new outlet
culvert
*  Drainage of the open drain alongside the boulevard and connectng streets and
drainage of new areas.
2.5       San Ignacio/Santa Elena
San Ignacio and Santa Elena are located on either side of the Macal River on the
Western Highway. They have a combined population of about 9,990 (1994).
The Macal River flows through a steeply incised valley which opens out into a broader
wide valley. Hawkesworth Bridge, located at the neck of the gorge, is the only road
crossing of the river. San Ignacio and Santa Elena are located on the western and
eastern sides of the river valley respectively. Cahal Pech, to the south of San Ignacio,
is a well known Maya site. The western banks, and lower parts of San Ignacio, are
prone to flooding. Drainage channels discharge from both sides to the river.
There are drainage problems in the lower lying parts of San Ignacio when the Macal
river rises, in older parts of town with insufficient road drainage, and where new
development on steeper land has not been accompanied by road paving and street
drainage. During the wet season, ponding occurs in low lying areas without adequate
drainage.
Proposals for drainage works include the following:
* Drainage works in the old part of San Ignacio
* Drainage works in newer areas of San Ignacio along Bullet Tree Road, Cahal
Pech and Victor Galvez Stadium
* Drainage works in Santa Elena by the football field and in the Aguada area.



2.6      Orange Walk Town
Orange Walk Town is located along the Northern Highway, about 70 kms north west
of Belize City. It has a population of about 12,200 (1994).
Orange Walk is situated on the western bank of the New River on a low lying ridge
running from north to south. Land on the east side drains into the New River, while land
to the west is swampy in low lying depressions. The town is expanding, predominantly
to the west. The study area has been inhabited more or less contnuously for the last
2000 years, and there are known Maya sites close to present day Orange Walk.
Drainage probiems occur in the newer developments to the west due to local ponding
in low lying areas, particularly where natural drainage has been impeded by building
roads raised above ground level. Flooding also occurs in the older parts of town due
to raised sidewalks without adequate drainage.
Proposals for drainage works consist of:
* Improvements to existing drains in the Cinderella Street area
•  Constructon of new drainage for new areas on the western side of town
2.7      Corozal
Corozal is the most northerly of the six towns under consideration. It is Iocated on the
coast at the mouth of the New River close to the Mexican border. Corozal has a
population of about 7,800 (1994).
The old part of town is located on flat, low-lying land by the sea front and has
expanded inland onto rising land to the north west where the Maya ruin of Santa Rita
lies. The town was almost entrely wiped out by Hurricane Janet in 1955 and was later
rebuilt.
The town is drained by two Magoons which originate in the Skeleton Town area near
Santa Rita. One passes under the Santa Rita road, flows south west through the backs
of properties and discharges into the sea at the southern end of town. The other
Magoon flows through the north east of town and along 8th Street North into the sea.
Other drains in town discharge directly into the sea.
During the dry season, the Magoons carry little water and become overgrown.
Stagnant water collects in low spots. The ouffall of the north eastern drain is partially
blocked, and localised flooding has been reported around a roadside drain in 3rd
Street North. The Skeleton Town and William Hall areas are flat and difficult to drain,
and suffer from localised flooding after heavy rain.
Proposed drainage works consist of:
* Improving the vertical alignment of the south western Magoon drain
• Drainage of the Skeleton Town area
* Drainage of the William Hall area.
3



3         OBJECTIVES
The main objectve of the EIA study is to evaluate the potental impacts of the proposed
drainage schemes on the people and the physical and natural environment in the six
town in order to assist the Belize Government in determining whether the schemes
should go ahead, and if so whether the authorisation should be condibonal upon any
environmental mitigaton measures.
To meet this objective it is necessary to evaluate the potential impacts of the drainage
schemes, determine to what extent the adverse impacts can be mitigated and identfy
how mitigation measures need to be implemented to be successful.
4         ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS
The environmental assessment will follow the Belize requirements for such studies as
set out in the EIA Regulations 1995, and World Bank's requirements as described in
the World Bank Environmental Assessment Sourcebook (1991).
5        STUDY AREA
The six towns in the project are Dangriga, Punta Gorda, Benque Viejo del Carmen,
San Ignacio/Santa Elena, Orange Walk Town, and Corozal. In each town the study
area will include:
the proposed sites for the drainage works and their immediate surrounds
*   the wider setting of the towns themselves, taking account of
*   on-going natural processes which may potentially affect the
schemes, such as longshore drift, and
*   other areas affected by on- and off-site construction activibes such
as earthworks, construction traffic and waste disposal.
6         SCOPE OF WORK
6.1       Task 1 - Description of the Proposed Project
The Consultants will prepare a brief description of the preferred schemes in each town
illustrated by maps, drawings or photographs as appropriate. The description will
include the following information:
*   the location and general layout of the drainage proposals
*   design guidelines (eg hydraulic criteria and flooding, geotechnical
consideratons, design life)
*   the dimensions (width, height, volumes) of the components of the
scheme
*   activities related to the schemes before, during and following construction
*   construction programme
information on the preferred drainage schemes will be provided by the engineering
design consultants.



6.2       Task 2 - Description of the Environment
Assemble, evaluate and present baseline data on the relevant environmental
characteristcs of the study area. Include infDrmation on any changes antcipated
before the project commences. The topics to be addressed include as a minimum:
(a)    Physical Environment: topography; climate; drainage; and water quality;
(b)    Biological Environment: nature and value of habitats in the study areas, and
the types of flora and fauna found in the creeks and drainage channels; and
(c)    Socio-cultural Environment: land use; population and settlement; cultural
properties; planned development activities; traffic; and recreaton.
The description of the existing environment is to be based on existing data collected
from published sources (government offices, literature); discussions with the
engineering consultants working on the project, government offices and non-
government organisabons; and field visits.
6.3       Task 3 - Legislative and Regulatory Considerations
Identfy and describe briefly the regulatory framework in Belize for the protection of the
environment and the requirements for environmental impact assessments.
6.4       Task 4 - Determination of the Potential Impacts of the Proposed Project
Identify the significant potential impacts of the proposed drainage schemes,
distnguishing between significant positive and negative impacts, direct and indirect
impacts, and immediate and long-term impacts. Identify those impacts which are
unavoidable or irreversible. Where possible, describe the impacts quantitatively.
Comment on the extent and quality of available data, explaining significant information
deficiencies and any uncertainties associated with the evaluation of the impacts.
In this study particular emphasis will be given to:
*   Construction related activities or nuisances affecting nearby residents and
existing road users
The effects of land-take on land use
*   The effects on construction on cultural heritage sites
*   The effects of drainage works on in-stream vegetation and the indirect
impacts on coastal habitats.
6.5       Task 5 - Analysis of Alternatives to the Proposed Project
Describe the altematives that were examined in the course of developing the preferred
drainage schemes covering the siting; design; constt. ction, operation and
maintenance procedures; and programme. Compare the potential environmental
impacts of the alternatives and the 'do nothing' option, identifying those impacts which
are irreversible or unavoidable and which can be mitigated. Identify the reasons for



rejectng the alternatives and arriving at the preferred scheme.
6.6      Task 6 - Development of Management Plan to Mitigate Negative Impacts
Recommend feasible and cost-effecbve measures to prevent or reduce significant
negative impacts to acceptable levels. Estmate the impacts and costs of those
measures. Consider compensation to affected parties for impacts which cannot be
mitigated. Prepare a management plan including proposed work programmes, budget
estmates, schedules. staffing and training requirements, and other necessary support
services to implement the mitigatng measures.
6.7      Task 7 - Identification of Institutional Needs to Implement Environmental
Assessment Recommendations
Review the authority and capability of institutions with responsibility for implementing
the mitigation and monitoring plans. Make recommendations for strengthening or
expanding them to ensure adequate implementation of the mitigation and monitoring
plans.
6.8      Task 8 - Development of a Monitoring Plan
If appropriate, prepare a plan to monitor the implementation of the mitigation measures
and the impacts of the project during construction and operation. Include in the plan
an estimate of capital and operating costs and a description of other inputs needed to
carry it out.
6.9      Task 9 - Assist in Inter-Agency Co-ordination and Public/NGO Participation
Liaise with the appropriate government agencies to obtain their views on the scope of
the environmental assessment, the potential key impacts to be assessed, the
availability of baseline data, and the identification of NGOs and affected groups to be
consulted. Keep records of meetings and other activities, communications, and
comments and their disposition. Undertake a public consultation exercise in order to
inform the public of the proposed drainage schemes and provide the public with an
opportunity to voice their concerns on the proposed schemes.
6.10     Task 10 - Reporting
Prepare an environmental assessment report to include the results of the study,
supported where necessary by illustrations and technical appendixes. The
environmental assessment report will need to include the following:
*   Executive Summary
*   Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
*   Description of the Proposed Project
*   Descripton of the Environment
*   Significant Environmental Impacts
*   Analysis of Alternatives
*   Mitigation Management Plan
*   Environmental Management and Training
*   Monitoring Plan
*   Inter-Agency and Public/NGO Involvement
List of References



Appendices:
List of Environmental Assessment Preparers
Records of Inter-Agency and Public/NGO Communications
Data and Unpublished Reference Documents
Submit three copies each of the draft Final and Final Reports to the Government of
Belize. The Government of Belze will co-ordinate the circulation of the reports within
its own departments and to any other parties.
The draft final report will be submitted by 1 October 1999. The final report will be
submitted within four weeks of receiving final comments from the MoW.
7        CONSULTING TEAM
The Consulting team will consist of a Team Leader supported by technical staff to
cover the disciplines likelyto be needed for such a study. The EA team should consist
of at least:
*   A Team Leader with experience in the environmental assessment of
drainage works
-   A drainage engineer
*   A specialist in social impacts and institutional strengthening issues
*   An ecologist with knowledge of Belizean flora and fauna
*   An archaeologist with particular knowledge of Maya sites.
8        PROGRAMME
The EIA exercise will be-completed within three months of appointment.



B        Ecology



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I



Ecological Study
Urban Infrastructure Project
Drainage Component
Report to Halcrow Group Ltd.
September 20, 1999
Prepared by:
J. C. Meerman
Belize Environmental Consultancies Ltd.
P.O. Box 208, Belmopan, Belize
Tel/fax 501-91-2017, <meerman@btl.net>



I



Table of Contents
Summary                                                                 2
Introduction                                                             2
Scope of work                                                           3
Brief ecological description of the six towns                            4
Wildlife                                                                 7
Description of the ecology and the impacts expected to be caused by the
drainage works under consideration                                      8
Conservation aspects                                                    18
Potential impacts                                                        19
Oplinions of Conservation NGOs                                          21
Mitigation                                                              22
Monitoring                                                              24
Literature consulted                                                     25
Appendix: Species lists flora and fauna                             9 sheets
Picture on title page: SE Magoon Drain in Corozal Town.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     I



Scope of work
The ecological studv is to provide a brief overview on the terrestrial and aquatic
ecology in and around the six study towns, and provide a summary of the ecologzical
value of the habitats and conservation status of anv known species present. And
describing any features of ecological interest identified during the field visit(s).
The ecological study is also to identify the key ecological impacts associated with the
proposed works, make recommendations for mitigation measures to be taken and
recommend further studies to be undertaken.
The ecological study is also meant to describe the potential impacts of constructing
and maintaining the drainage works in the six towns on the terrestrial and aquatic
ecology. Characterize the impacts in terms of tvpe (beneficial or adverse), magnitude
(high. medium or low), direct/indirect, duration (short. medium and long term,
sporadic), avoidability, and reversibility.



Summary
This report examines the ecological impact of the proposed improvements in six
towns of Belize. The overall conclusion of this report is that since in most cases the
works will be undertaken in a strictly urban environment, there are few ecological
concerns.
Most notable exemptions are to be found in Orange Walk Town. Dangriga and Punta
Gorda.
In Orange Walk Tow>n, the Town Board wished to connect two natural wetlands in an
attempt to improve drainage of a small area of the town. Studies have proved that this
linkage would be counterproductive and no engeneering works should be carried out
here.
In Dangriga the main concern is the Gra Gra Lagoon just south of the towln. The
Town Board proposes. as an alternative option. to lead some of the town drains into
the lagoon. The preferred option is to bypass the lagoon and drain directly into the
sea. This report provides reasoning against this alternative option.
In Punta Gorda the the main drainage work would involve straightening of a natural
creek and some concem was raised in conjunction with a population of Black Howler
Monkevs inhabiting the area.
In all towns urban pressure is leading development into wetland areas not suitable for
housing development. This trend will lead only to future drainage, environmental,
health and social problems. The lack of proper planning and zoning is responsible for
this. Although this is a very serious issue, the current project can do little to prevent
this.
A problem of similar magnitude is the solid waste problem. In all towns, residents use
the drains as solid waste disposal. This leads to drainage, environmental, health and
social problems. In many cases the solid waste ends up in the marine environment.
The lack of proper solid waste management and control is responsible for this. Again,
this is a very serious issue, but the current project can do little to prevent this.
Introduction
Several years ago, Halcrow undertook an engineering study to improve drainage in six
towns in Belize. namely San Ignacio/Santa Elena, Benque Viejo del Carmen, Corozal,
Orange Walk Town, Dangriga and Punta Gorda. Halcrow has now been
commissioned to review and update the proposed designs, with a view to constructing
the drainage proposals in the coming year. As part of the current study, Halcrow is
submitting an Environmental Impact Assessment of the proposals. This ecology study
forms part of the EIA for the drainage section of the Urban Infrastructure Project
(UIP) and the results of the study will be summarized in the main report, and be
presented in full in a technical annex to the EIA.



Brief ecological description of the six towns
Corozal
Corozal is a coastal town, located on the western shores of Corozal Bav. The
topography is flat and just above sea level in the southeast and gently sloping over
limestone to the north and west. Agricultural fields (mostly sugar cane) surround the
town, although some fragments of natural vegetation remain. These natural vegetation
fragments include the following vegetation type:
Seasonal swamp forests of Northern Belize: Bullet Tree-logwood variant: This
vegetation type is characterized as follows (iremonger and Brokaw, 1995): Freshwater
swamp forests in which the high soil water tables vary with season; the soil may be
fairly dry during January - June. Seasonally waterlogged forests that have stagnant
soil water in the wet season and may develop a hog-wallow topography. The canopy
is generally no higher than 20 m. Characteristic trees include Bactris spp., Bucida
buceras, Calophyllum brasiliense, Haematoxylon campechianum, Metopium brownei,
Coccoloba spp., Manilkara zapota, Gliricidia sepium, Sabal morrisiana. The field
layer is often dominated by graTninoids. Thick woody vines are sometimes present.
Includes some areas, which may locally be called "bajos".
This vegetation type was most noticeably present north of the area known as "skeleton
town".
Orange Walk
Orange Walk is located along the New River. The topography is gentlv sloping over
limestone immediately west of the New River. Further to the west the land is flat and
barely accentuated. Agricultural fields (mostly sugar cane) surround the town.
although some fragments of natural vegetation remain. These natural vegetation
fragments include the following vegetation types (Meerman, 1999):
Seasonal swamp forest of Northern Belize (Bullet tree-- lozwood variant). This is the
most extensive natural vegetation type left in the project area. This vegetation tvpe is
locally characterized by deep swampy soils with a distinctive "hog-wallow relief'
which makes walking difficult. The area can be considered very wet to partly
inundated during the rainy season to dry and rock-hard during the dry season. The
canopy is broken and the vegetation is stunted. Diversity is low and very few large
trees occur. The Bullettree Bucida buceras is usually the largest tree species around.
The density of epiphytes was high in this vegetation type. Patches with higher ground
have a somewhat different species composition and a higher canopy. Such patches are
too small to be recognized as a different vegetation type.
Seasonal swamp forests of Northern Belize (Riparian seasonal swamp forest). This
vegetation type was found mostly directly bordering the New River. An isolated patch
was found along a small creek west of Orange Walk Town.
Alt]hough there is usually a belt of transitional species, the actual transition from the
bullet tree- logwood variant to the riparian seasonal swamp forest is usually quite
sudden. Here the canopy is higher and more closed. Within the project area, the
dominant species is the Provision tree Pachira aquatica. In some places Red



mangrove Rhizophora mangle has a good presence (probably indicative of ill-aerated
soils).
Tall-herb wetland communihy. Small patches with low, mostly herbaceous, vegetation
are common around Orange Walk. Usually the main species is the cattail Typha
domingensis. Thallia geniculata is common in the swamp directly west of town.
San Ignacio/Santa Elena
The twin towns of San Ignacio and Santa Elena are located on the banks of the Macal
River in the Cayo district. The topography is strongly accentuated over limestone. but
flat, low lying areas exist in the west of San Ignacio and in the north of Santa Elena.
Hardly any natural vegetation remains close to town. The remaining fragments
comprise of the following vegetation types (Iremonger & Brokaw, 1995):
Lowland moist evergreen seasonal forests (Northwestern Variant): This variant is
characterized by taller forests than the eastern variants, it attains 20-30 m. Common
trees are Alseis yucatanensis, Ampelocera hottlei, Aspidosperma cruenta, Brosimum
alicastrum, Bursera simaruba, Drypetes brownei, D. laterifolia, Hirtella americana,
Manilkara zapota, Metopium brownei, Orbignya cohune, Pouteria reticulata,
Pouteria amygdalina, Pouteria sp., Pseudolmedia sp., Protium copal, Pseudobombax
ellipticum, Sabal morrisiana, Schoepfia schreberi, Spondias mombin, Stemmadenia
donnell-smithii, and Trichilia minutiflora. Cryosophila argentea is common in the
understorv and midstory. Soils are well-drained gray or brown clays, variably stony.
Broadleaf Hill forests over limestone. Canopy trees 15-40 m tall, understorv present at
about 10-15 m, shrub layers between 1-4 m, herb layer usually scant, at about 30 cm.
Common trees are Calophyllum brasiliense, Manilkara sp. Peteniodendron belizense,
Sabal morrisiana, Trichilia minutiflora, and Myrtaceae. Palms, Rubiaceae, and
Melastomataceae are abundant in the shrub layers, and lianas are frequent Soils are
variable. In steep terrain where there is more non-vegetated ground surface,
particularly bare rock, the canopy tends to reach 25-30 m. Epilithic herbs are locally
abundant, e.g. Pilea spp., Spathiphyllum blandum, Bromelia sp. and Begonia
sericoneura. Soils may be extremely organic due to the leaching of the mineral soil
and the build-up of organic matter in the limestone cracks and fissures.
The forest along the Macal River has a very small floodplain and shows little
resemblance to the banks of the New River in Orange Walk. Technically the riverine
forest in San Ignacio!Santa Elena is more related to the broadleaf hill forests over
limestone than to the Riparian Seasonal Swamp forest that would be expected along a
river. At one stage this vegetation type may have existed in what is now the northem
section of Santa Elena.
Benque Viejo del Carmen
This town is located on the banks of the Mopan River near the border with
Guatemala. The topography is strongly accentuated over limestone. The settlement is
rather old and as a result, very little natural vegetation is remaining close to town. .
The remaining fragments comprise of the following vegetation types (Iremonger &
Brokaw, 1995):



Lowland moist evergreen seasonal forests: Northwestern Variant: This variant is
characterized by taller forests than the eastern variants, it attains 20-30 m. Common
trees are Alseis yucatanensis. Ampelocera hottlei. Aspidosperma cruenta, Brosimum
alicastrum, Bursera simaruba, Drvpetes brownei. D. laterifolia. Hirtella americana,
Manilkara zapota. Metopium brownei, Orbignya cohune. Pouteria reticulata.
Pouteria amygdalina, Pouteria sp., Pseudolmedia sp.. Protium copal. Pseudobombax
ellipticum, Sabal morrisiana. Schoepfia schreberi, Spondias mombin. Stemmadenia
donnell-smithii. and Trichilia minutiflora. Crvosophila argentea is common in the
understory and midstory. Soils are well-drained gray or brown clays, variably stony.
Broadleaf Hill forests over limestone: Canopy trees 15-40 m tall, understory present
at about 10-1 5 m, shrub layers between 1-4 m, herb layer usually scant, at about 30
cm. Common trees are Calophyllum brasiliense, Manilkara sp. Pereniodendron
belizense, Sabal morrisiana, Trichilia minutiflora, and Myrtaceae. Palms, Rubiaceae.
and Melastomataceae are abundant in the shrub layers. and lianas are frequent Soils
are variable. In steep terrain where there is more non-vegetated ground surface,
particularlv bare rock, the canopy tends to reach 25-30 m. Epilithic herbs are locally
abundant, e.g. Pilea spp., Spathiphyllum blandum. Bromelia sp. and Begonia
sericoneura. Soils may be extremely organic due to the leaching of the mineral soil
and the build-up of organic matter in the limestone cracks and fissures.
The forest along the Mopan River has a very small floodplain and shows little
resemblance to the shores of the New River in Orange Walk. Technically the riverine
forest in San Ignacio/Santa Elena is more related to the broadleaf hill forests over
limestone than to the Riparian Seasonal Swamp forest that would be expected along a
river.
Dangriga
Darngriga is a coastal town on the mouth of the North Stann Creek River. All of town
is very flat on alluvial soils and bare]y above sea level. Most important fragments of
natural vegetation are found to the south of town. These remaining fragments
corLprise of the following vegetation types (Iremonger & Brokaw, 1995):
Lowland broadleaf moist forest over poor soils: These forests are characterized by
Calophyllum brasiliense, low Orbignya cohune, Terminalia amazonia, Virola
brachycarpa, V koschnyi, Xylopiafrutescens, and Miconia spp.
Basin mangrove forest: Species composition and structure in these communities are
highly variable depending on frequency and depth of inundation, nutrient exchange
and water salinity levels. Rhizophora mangle dominates in areas which receive
frequent tidal flooding or where flood waters are predominantly deeper than 15 cm.
Where water depth is less and tidal flushing, amplitude and kinetic energy of
floodwaters decrease, other mangrove species invade. Where salinity reaches levels
above 50 % Avicennia germinans dominates. In addition to being highly saline the
soils may be very reduced (anaerobic), giving the Avicennia an ecological advantage
through its pneumatophores. Where salinity is about 30-40 %, dominant species
include Avicennia germinans, Laguncularia racemosa, and Rhizophora mangle.
Mixed mangrove shrubland: Mixed mangrove communities, not permanently
inundated, with all four mangrove species: Avicennia germinans, Conocarpus erectus
Laguncularia racemosa, and Rhizophora mangle.



Punta Gorda
Punta Gorda is a coastal town in the southern district of Toledo. The topography of
this town shows low Iying areas to the north-east of town and slightly elevated areas
to the south and inland. Isolated limestone hills characterize the hinterland. As
expected, most of the natural vegetation near town has disappeared or at least been
strongly impacted as a result of human activity. The remaining fragments comprise of
the following vegetation types (Iremonger & Brokaw, 1995):
Seasonal swamp forests of Southern and Central Belize: Typical variant: These are
generally lower and over poorer soils than those of Northern Belize. There are two
distinguishable variants. Characteristic trees in these forests are Aspidoserma cruenta,
Dalbergia stevensonii, Terminalia amazonia, Vismiaferruginea, I'ochysia
hondurensis, and Xylopiafrutescens. On richer soils Pterocarpus officinalis is found;
on poorer soils Melastomataceae and Acoelorraphe wrightii.
Vegetation survevs in this vegetation type showed a clear influence of limestone in
the vegetation. This influence is probably a result of hillwash from nearby limestone
hills.
Lowland broadleaf wet forests over poor or sandv soils: Characterized locally by
Acosmium panamense, Aspidosperma cruenta, Calophyllum brasiliense, Dialium
guianense, Guarea sp., Erblichia odorata, Ficus sp., Licania platypus, Orbignya
cohune, Pouteria mammosa. Pouteria sp., Pterocarpus hayesii, Sirnarouba glauca.
Spondias mombin, Swietenia macrophylla, Symphonia giobulifera, Terminalia
amazonia, Vochysia hondurensis, Virola koschnyi, Vismiaferruginea, and Xylopia
frutescens. Corresponding to where they occur in iowland areas, soils may be dull
reddish-brown, brown or gray clays, often mottled and/or stony.
Wildlife
Wildlife in these towns is mostly restricted to birdlife. Larger mammals are rare in the
project area with the probable exemption of Raccoons (Procyon lotor) and various
Rats. The West Indian Manatee (Trichechus manatus) is a component of the offshore
habitat. Especially the Bay of Corozal is considered an important habitat for this
species.
Of the reptiles, the Morelets Crocodile warrants specific mention. With several towns
expanding into wetland areas, there are increasing reports of Crocodiles in the urban
area. These reports have become so common that the situation is increasingly
perceived as being a problem and consequently solutions to this problem are being
sought (Meerman, 1999).



Description of the ecology and the impacts expected to be caused by
the drainage works under consideration
The following is a brief description of the ecology in the proposed drainage works (by
town). This description is based on the fieldvisits carried out in August and September
of 1999.
C'orozal
Most of the drainage works in the town itself will involve repair and upgrading of
existing drains. No discemable ecological impacts are to be expected here. This
situation is somewhat
IrdJ#x[-"^-'t 77 t'fl!![1'#rr 1different in the area known as
:      1  "skeleton town" and to a
lesser extend in the "William
- ~ -  ~  ' Ar    '   Hall" area. In "skeleton
- -  ,  , <    _.           town", urban development is
_    _   _. -    >_    -.  = i   expanding into a fragment of
, ;, ,j.,.,D, - ' ' "Seasonal swamp forests of
Northem Belize: Bullet Tree-
_ Z                 -             logwood variant" (See
e -~,                                   above). Here, drainage works
_ ' will impact this forest
.=,   ---   remnant (for a species list,
see appendix). Most notably,
improved drainage in this
Flooding in Skeleton Town, Corozal       area will lead to further
._____________________________________________   developm ent  into   an   area  that
is barely suitable for housing
purposes, and consequently more destruction of this vegetation type.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



Orange Walk
Most of the drainage works in the town itself will involve repair and upgrading of
existing drains. No discernable ecological impacts are to be expected here, especiallv
since little or no natural vegetation exists here. Some areas at the fringes of town with
remnants of natural vecetation warrant further description and some of these areas are
of concern:
I) The wetland in the western part of
town (Tall-herb wetland community,
see above). The Town Board of Orange
Walk Town sees this wetland as a
problem. This wetland is the recipient
.... __= .   -    .....  *of drainage waters from the Dunn Street
Drain. Perceived problems are
mosquitoes and flooding of properties
on the northern shores of this wetland.
The Town Board proposed to alleviate
flooding problems by linking this
wetland with a similar wetland just west
of it. Ultimately the Town Board is
looking at filling in this wetland and
7,,  Vt;  f'-          use it for town expansion. Filling in this
wetland does not fall under the scope of
this current project and research into
-^ Is    >   5 this option of linking the two wetlands
came up with some important (not
Drain ending in swamp 1 (Orange Walk).   unexpected) results. It was shown that the
water level in the second (eastward)
wetland was higher than in the first wetland. Connecting the two would result in a
westward flow and thus be counterproductive. Apart from the undesirability of
such a linking from a strictly engineering point of view, one of the ecological
consequences would be that it would completely change the hydrology of the area.
A decision not to carry out any engineering works here has already been taken.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I



San Lorenzo Rd
outside map                              - 
''  -' m                                 "s Wl    m_ . >- 
't; ~~~~~" ...'.-rcp s;g9
-          -~_ Sw m-.                 , 1am   !taEwIs*.
0 0  1 <
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -D~J -                          2343      ;
*              .,              tar Jo5e~~ Pamr.,23
]{|t'  L, I >~I' Stee
Map 1. Orange Walk                            H
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
13 
ar  osePaIrnari~c, DS 2
Map 1. Orange Walk Town Area
2) Drainage of the Craboo Street area into a "Tall-herb wetland" along the New
River. The proposed drainage area has escaped development because of its
permanently wet conditions. Drainage of the Craboo Street area would add very
little to this and no discernable ecological impacts are expected here.
3) Improvement of the culvert under the San Lorenzo Road through "Seasonal
swamp forest of Northern Belize (Bullet tree - logwood variant)" (See above).
This improvement appears straight forward and the construction and maintenance
themselves will do little or no ecological damage. However, there is a distinct
development pressure on the general area which is currently still covered by
natural vegetation. Improved drainage of this area will no doubt facilitate
development in this area and ultimately lead to the total destruction of this forest
fragment.



I                                                                                                                                                          I



San Ignacio/Santa Elena
Most of the drainage works in the town itself will involve repair and upgrading of
existing drains. No discernable ecological impacts are to be expected here, especially
since little or no natural vegetation exists here. This situation is different in some
areas at the fringes of town:
tw57 1) The Independence Street
area in San Ignacio is a low
lying area currently undergoing
development. Drainage pattern
is not entirelY clear and
-           -; ----;b -...........,-.direction of natural flow is
Z4-is           *9-. -zw<<  - ;t-            either east (to the Macal River)
t   .3.<. J.............-, "     , ;or west where there is supposed
to be a small creek. This small
-  R               ,~.,^ ;> ...... . ............... . -     ^:.: creek could not be located
i> .~ ,~ :,~-.*d..  uring the fieldwork and the
> _    *,~.. S.  month of September 1999 was
too dry to make any natural
Drainage in the Independence Street Area, San  flow patterns stand out. Most of
Ignacio. Citrus in the background.    the area is either new urban
development or agriculture
(Citrus). Some isolated trees occur but nothing is left of the original vegetation.
Construction and maintenance of the drainage works proposed is not expected to
have any significant impact,
2) The Salazar Street drain in Santa Elena drains into the Macal River. The Macal
River at this point has some fringes of natural vegetation (Meerman, 1998) and the
bank is steep. Erosion is the main concern here.



I                                                                                                                                                         I



Benque Viejo de] Carmen
Most of the drainage
works in the town itself
will involve repair and
upgrading of existing
drains. One soakawav
will need to be
constructed near the
^  s;.__    ~~~~  .      .  .         19~~azarene school which
-  . _           _             is located in an area of
:   -  --_            town expansion in the
east side of town. Since
-    .-. - .: - - - _.>.--.   m  all the area is urbanized,
no discemable
-              -    .             ' : . -   .. ecological impacts are to
.. -  ;       . be expected here. Both
______ -____ -____ --______--.-.__________.____.___   the Central Main Drain
Figure 2 Central drain in Benque Viejo del Carmen   and the Liberty/George
Street drains will drain
into the Mopan River.
Except for the regular concems with dumping potentially polluted water on a main
surface water body, little or no discernable ecological impact is expected here.



I                                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I                     I



Dangriga
Dangriga being low-lying has the greatest drainage problem of all towns investigated.
I; was also the town with the greatest garbage problem. Also there are considerable
areas of wetland or other types of natural vegetation remaining at the edges of town.
The areas of concem are the following:
1) The John Creek Canal outlet near the Pelican Beach Resort is basically the mouth
of a mangrove creek with its associated vecetation. Beach erosion is the main
problem here and improvement of the canal can probably not seen separate from
some form of coastal protection works.
2) The mouth of the Miskin Canal just east of the John Creek Canal outlet has little
or no natural vegetation remaining but shares the problem of coastal erosion.
3) Most of the major canals open up to the North Stann Creek River. Although it
would appear that this would lead to pollution of the river by the water of these
drains, this may only be the case immediately after the opening of the
connection(s) of the canal(s) with the river when accumulated debris is flushed out
into the river. After that the hydrological benefits of these connections far outstrip
any environmental problems, real or perceived. The real problem here lies with
the tremendous solid waste problem of Dangriga. A problem which needs to be
addressed with great vigor.
4) The Melinda Road Canal lies in a swampy area along the North Stann Creek. And
old oxbow lake, remnant
from the days that the
._  . ;." ' .'  , ,r .-;C4** ~ .:stt +'             river was still free to
--i i  .  .. .,, ^*;  * * ffi -choose its own way, is
still discemable here.
The vegetation here
shows a transition from
"Basin mangrove forest"
to "Lowland broadleaf
.. - < ... :  ^      ,    .w;- .moist forest over poor
soils" There are still
sizeable stands of
mangrove (All three
species) present,
. ,,6,,  A- ,; ' a especially west of the
Canal. Morelet's
Housing development moving in near the Lakeland Canal    Crocodiles are reported
on the fringes of Gra Gra Lagoon, Dangriga  to occur in this area.
5) The Gra Gra Lagoon is a large, nearly pristine, wetland immediately south of
Dangriga (See map). The Lakeland Canal and the Sabal Street Canal currently
drain into this wetland. Town expansion is currently creeping into this area (Rivas
Estate). The area is near perrmanently inundated and unsuitable for urban
development.
The proposal is to link up the Lakeland Canal with the sea through a culvert
under the Jetty Pier Road. Currently this area is covered in trash varying from
plastic bags to old washing machines. Engineering works would involve the
construction of a 6.5 meter wide canal while the whole width of the engineering



I



works (including embankments etc.) here would be as much as 25 to 30 meters.
All this area is dense "Basin Mangrove" separated from the sea by a narrow
beach bar with associated vegetation (See species list). Although this particular
vegetation is not too well represented in protected areas (14% coverage. PfB
1995), The damage to this small area of Mangrove in the originally proposed
route, is preferable to anv impacts on the larger and ecologically more important
Gra Gra Lagoon.
GRIG DANGRIGA
Ar  ~ ~ ~ ~~     76
t8|RE  -it  4   \   g3,,#*  T__I 0    '  Sr\t   - -
NGS*   a o the ae of Dangri
7              ,         t-                -w                       75- 
-'   - >      *'7 l       ,0    8t                                            '
a~~~~ -                 ,-    1/_.- e,                  ...  . -74-:-.
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~- ,.    73-                             .
, = , ,<           -'     -  <?,. ((,-; ,- ,-
Mdap of the area of Dangriga



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                    I



A local NGO called "Friends of Gra Gra" is currently attempting to manage the
Gra Gra Lagoon and are hoping to develop it for eco-tourism (See excerpt of
interview elsewhere in this document). The Friends of Gra Gra are opposed to
drainage of town drains into the lagoon at the same time recognizing that the
natural drainage is into the lagoon.
--   -  0   --,.½-----
Gra Gra Lagoon south of Dangriga
The main concern with the Gra Gra lagoon is potential pollution of the (brackish)
water in the lagoon by polluted water from the town drains. On the other hand
filtering of this drain water throuah an extensive wetland with mangrove has
ecological benefits above direct dumping of this water on the sea and nearby
barrier reef.



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I



Punta Gorda
Punta Gorda has relatively few drainage problems. Upgrading of the NE Magoon
drain and the main street drainage constitute no ecological problems. The more
sensitive areas lie to the south west on the South side of the SW Magoon drain which
is a more or less natural creek. There are two areas of interest:
.     ......  .... .... .;    - --   --   --   - -------
*~~~~~at                              tetty
4s ,¢,,, oL fie, ~...........    ...
3PUNTA GORDA
. ........
r S           ----         ---;.- ---
'Voice of Ame,;
- ~  ~ ~ 1 ,Orang  Poin7.-:--                     ---
Map 3: The area of Punta Gorda
a) The town expansion to the south-west. Here the creekldrain is narrow and often ill
defined. The area is a relatively new development with very few remnants of the
original vegetation. There are no ecological constraints in this area.
b) The swamp forest (Seasonal swamp forests of Southern and Central Belize:
Typical variant) south of town along the road leading to the Voice of America
compound. This area is somewhat impacted by shifting cultivation but otherwise
very much intact. The forest here is distinctly dorninated by "Kaway" Pterocarpus
officinalis



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                          I



indicating perrmanentlv wet and
occasionally inundated conditions.
-,*   This forest remains very low and wet
until well away from the creek. Many
forest pools were found containing
aquatic vegetation, again indicating
permanently wet conditions. The
s.mW-A.,  sr  :vegetation composition (see species
list) clearlv indicates the nearby
______________       presence of limestone (most likely
hillwash from nearby limestone hills)
The biodiversitv of this forest type
,^  M   appears high. Also, Black Howler
Monkeys occur right up to the edge of
town in this area. A special plant
74 -   found here is Zamia picta. which is
-fX P ?   ;(  known from Belize only from a few
Zamia picta near Punt.a Gorda
specimens. Further SW this forest
changes into a much poorer vegetation
type: "Lowland broadleaf wet forests over
poor or sandy soils".
Engineering works of the SW magoon
drain would involve straightening of the  a
creek, which in its turn would lead to
substantial loss of habitat in this small                        _
area. Nevertheless, this particular habitat   -
is well represented in protected areas
(29% coverage) (PfB, 1995).            ;f&x -
Creek with Kawav forest near mouth of SW
Magoon drain



I



Conservation aspects
Most of the plant and animal species noted or reported from the 6 project areas are
common and not endangered. A few exemptions need to be made, these being:
Al]. Mangrove species (Red, Black and White) are subject to the "Forests (Protection
of Mangroves) Regulations" of 1989. This legislation effectively protects all
mangroves from alteration (on both private and National land). but in recognition of
certain development needs, the regulations establish a permit procedure whereby
people may apply for permission to clear mangrove. Fines for not adhering to permnit
conditions were increased under the "Forests (Protection of Mangroves) Amendment
Regulations of 1992".
Zamia picta is a rare plant known in Belize only from a few specimens. The species
is listed in appendix II of CITES and listed as Rare in WCMC (1997). Specimens of
this species were found not far away from the SW Magoon Drain in Punta Gorda. It
does not appear likely that upgrading and maintenance activities of this drain will
affect actual stands of this species. However. straightening of the creek in the lower
section of the drain might lead to the destruction of an unknown number of plants.
The West-Indian Manatee (Trichechus manatus) is listed as threatened (IUCN,
1996). Belize is one of the most important strongholds in the Caribbean for this
species and the Bay of Corozal is considered an important habitat within Belize (Auil,
I999).
The Mexican Black Howler Monkey (Alouatta pigra) is listed as vulnerable (IUCN,
1996). A population of this species occurs in the SW Magoon drain area of Punta
Gorda.
The Morelet's Crocodile (Crocodylus moreletii) is listed as threatened in the IUCN
Red data book (1996), but the Belizean population appears to be healthy. The species
is endemic to low elevation sites along the Gulf and Caribbean slopes from
Tamaulipas (Mexico) south to Belize and Northern Guatemala (Lee, 1996). The
combination of human encroachment into Crocodile habitat and the recovery of
Crocodile populations increasingly leads to confrontations. Drainage works in
Corozal Town, Orange Walk Town and Dangriga will influence Morelet's Crocodile
habitat. In the current situation making the habitat (in the drains and canals) less
suitable for crocodiles has to be perceived as beneficial since this will reduce the
chance for conflicts (which always end negative for the crocodiles).



Potential impacts
The construction, upgrading and cleaning of the drainage systems as proposed,
potentially have the following ecological impacts on the ecology of the respective
areas (table 1 below):
Table 1. Potential impacts
<
Activity          Impact                   CD c r                            Discussion
Dredging and      Loss of          |            C    n    -   Removal of vegetation will lead to temporary
removal of        biodiversity       CD   r                     disturbance of aquatic and terrestrial fauna.
vegetation in and                    X    X    o       .        Recovery is expected. Much of the aquatic fauna
around canals                        <                          depends on free flow of water and will thus benefit
from maintenance clearing. Cleaning of canals could
possibly lead to reduction of shelter for Crocodiles.
Since Crocodiles are considered a nuisance in urban
l______________   -   areas, this is to be considered a positive side effect.
RemovalI of        z    m _1r            O Removal of trees for construction purposes along the
Howler Monkey      CD                        SW Magoon drain and straightening of the creek
habitat (Punta                                south of Punta Gorda may affect Howler Monkey
Gorda)             D                         presence in the area and is thus negative.
Destruction of     z    _    z           z   Straightening of the lower section of the SW Magoon
Zamia picta stands  CD    3    _         0   drain may lead to the destruction of an unknown
(Punta Gorda)            _    n              number of individuals of this rare and poorly known
ft             3t         species.
Removes cover for       C                    Crocodiles are considered a nuisance in urban
crocodiles               i    0r         o   areas. Making the urban canals a less suitable
ft _    D   Sg habitat will prevent conflict situations.
ft~~~~~~?
Improving         Drainage of         z                          mIproved drainage in and around wetlands will lead
drainage          wetlands and loss   sD   3    9.   o    o   to loss of general biodiversity.
of biodiversity.              ft
I              ~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~CD3
Increasing         z    _    _  _             Improved drainage in and around wetlands will lead
development        CD   r           ,    o| to increased development and thus loss of general
pressure on areas    X    (D       CD         biodiversity.
unsuitable for     <          _
development.
Dredging of       Pollution as a      z    r    _           <| Dredged sludge will be transported to the local
sludge            result of          Dt   3           D     ft  sanitary landfill. Spillage of siudge will lead to dirty
to         ft   0     (J-
transportation/dum    >i      a               roads with assocated economic and social dangers.
ping of dredged    <                          Leaching of sludge at dumpsite may iead to pollution
siudge.                                       of surrounding areas.
Sewage dumping   Pollution of canals   z    _               z   Some residents in the three coastal towns may not
by residents                         CD  CD    °  |         o   have sewerage connections. Raw sewage will be
without access to  I                                             dumped in the canals instead.
other disposal                        <    3        I
methods                               CD
Flushing activity    Increased nutrient          _ r           | In the case of Corozal, Dangriga and Punta Gorda,
of canals         ioad in manne       CD  CD    0    0    0   the sensitive barrier reef is at great distance.
environment        D)   m                     Negative effects therefore limded.
<          f



Flushing activity   I Increased nutrient -    ,  1                  in the case of Orange Walk, San Ignacio and
of canals          load in marsh and    CD   CD    c               Benque, the cleaning capacity of the rivers is
to               01
riverine            'r       c_                 probably still enough to neutralze this effect Care
environment         _                           may be needed in the case of the marsh near
Orange Walk
Increased           z                           Pollution by solid waste is a problem in al. populated
deposition of solid   sD    r        0 o   o   areas but particularly severe in the case of Dangriga.
waste in marine,    aW    E    rD
marsh and riverine     |3
environment
Increased nutrient    z    r         _     z    Increased flushing action of the drainage canals may
load in the marine    D    3    c          o   lead to increased nutrient load in the manne
environment          o               C o        environment just outside the towns (Corozal,
affects Manatee     r          Q                Dangriga, Punta Gorda). Organisms growing on
population                                     leafblades (epyphils) of seagrass will be the first
recipients of these nutrients and respond with
increased growth. Possibly resulting in smothering of
seagrass which in its turn will lead to food shortage
i I                           for the Manatee population
Lnkage of          Affecting a virtualiy   z    _    rI       z   Leading slightly polluted and nutrient laden water
Dangriga drains    pristine mangrove  |c g   3           0 C o     though a mangrove habitat is actually preferable
with Gra Gra       haDitat           t                  (          above direct dumping in the marine habitat. The
Lagoon                                                             pristine character and its potential for ecotourism
i                1      3     make it undesirabie to use the Gra Gra lagoon for
Linkage                                                            this purpose
Linkage of two     Changing local       z     -          _    z| Because of the severe oamage to local drainage
swamps west of    hydrology             s c                    c r  pattern, linkage of the two swamps under
Orange Walk                             a    CD   El               consideration should only be undertaken.
<        |D Engineering considerations have already ruled out
3         this option.



I



Opinions of conservation NGOs
In order to obtain additional information on the ecology of the area and potential
impacts. representatives of the friends of Gra Gra. Toledo Institute for Development
and Environment (TIDE) and the Environmental. Social and Technical Assistance
Prcject (ESTAP) were interviewed on 24 and 25 August 1999.
Friends of Gra Gra (Dangriga)
Julian Lewis, Chairman, Timothy Flores. Vice Chairman
Friends of Gra Gra is a local NGO supported by funds from the Global Environmental
Facility (GEF) of the United Nations Development Project (UNDP). This NGO has
pledged to protect and manage the environment of the Gra Gra Lagoon and develop it
for ecotourism, Thev also claim to be active in the removal of trash along the road to
the lagoon and to be responsible for the placement of signs there.
The spokesmen were informed about the project in Dangriga and they expressed
coricems about the plans of the Town Board to lead some of the drainage canals of
Dangriga into the Gra Gra Lagoon. Initially, both spokesmen declared themselves
strongly against this proposed connection. Mostly out of fear from contamination of
the lagoon by polluted water from town. Later during the interview they admitted that
the natural drainage of the southem part of Dangriga actuallv led the waters to the
lagoon and that -with the installation of a proper filter- the effects on the lagoon
would be minimal. Nevertheless they still preferred direct dumping into sea because
of the (probably incorrect) assumption that the seawater would have a greater cleaning
capacity than the lagoon.
TII)E (Punta Gorda)
Will Mehia: Director
The spokesman was informed about the project in Punta Gorda and saw no
environmental and/or ecological concems. The only aspect that came forward was the
presence of Black Howler Monkeys at the Southern Edge of Punta Gorda. Care
should be taken not to destroy trees unnecessarily while upgrading the SW Magoon
drain.
ESTAP (Punta Gorda)
Darlene Middleton: Office Manager, John McGill: Physical Planner, Lucilla Ellis:
Social Planner
The above persons were informed about the project in Punta Gorda and saw no
environmental and/or ecological concerns. The only aspect that came forward was
again, the presence of Black Howler Monkeys at the Southem Edge of Punta Gorda.
Care should be taken not to destroy trees unnecessarily while upgrading the SW
Magoon drain.



Mitigation
In spite of the varied ecology of the areas under consideration, the current project will
not significantly affect the national biodiversity, and considerations of human
wellbeing should have preference in this particular case.
Some of the impacts would be best served by the "0-option" (no development). This is
the case in the swamp forests in Skeleton Town (Corozal), the swamp forests west of
Orange Walk, the herbaceous swamps west of Orange Walk, and the Gra Gra Lagoon
Wetland south of Dangriga. In many of these cases, improvement of the drainage will
only increase the development pressure on these areas which, strictly speaking, are
not suitable for town expansion. Expansion here will only lead to habitat destruction,
high development costs, high environmental costs and deplorable and unsanitary
living conditions.
In spite of the foregoing, the overall conclusion of the project should be that effect of
the proposed project to the local ecology will be minimal and that the social benefits
will outweigh the few negative impacts.
The main mitigation measures to be considered lie within the field of waste
management (See table 2 below). One area is recommended for protection (Gra Gra
Lagoon).
Table 2. Mitigation matnx.
Activity                   Impact                     Mitigation                   Costs
Dredging and removal of    Loss of biodiversity        None                        NA
vegetation in and around
canals
Destruction of Zamia picta  Removal of plants before   Labor to iocate and dig up
stands (Punta Gorda)       construction work starts.   plants + transportation to
Plants could be donated to    botanical garoen.
the future National
Arboretum and meanwhile
deposited in either the
DuPlooys Botanic Garden or
in the Green Hills Botanical
Collection.
Removal of Howler Monkey    No removal of (or damage   Limited. Works may require
habitat (Punta Gorda)      to) tall trees unless       a little more time when
absolutely unavoidable. This  caution needs to be taken
will be impossible to achieve
in the section closest to sea
where straightening of the
creek is required.
Removes cover for          None                        NA
crocodiles
Improving drainage         Drainage of wetlands and    None feasible within urban  NA
loss of biodiversity.      environment. None practcal
Creating development       either at this late stage.
pressure on areas unsuitable  Proper zoning should have
for deveiopment            exciuded many of the areas
from development
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Dredging of sludge            Pollution as a result o'     Monitoring of transport and  Little Works may require a
transportation/dumping of    cleaning of spills when     little more time when caution
dredgec sludge.             required                      needs to be taken
Sewage dumping by            Poliution of canals         Installation of proper       Not under this project
resicdents without access to                             sewerage facilities
other disposal methods
Flushing activity of canals  Increased nutrient load in  Installation of proper       Not under this project
marine, marsh and riverine    sewerage and waste
environment                 disposal facilities
Increased nutrient load in  Installation of proper       Not under this project
marsh and nvenne            sewerage and waste
environment                 disposal facilrties
Increased deposition of solid  Instaliation of proper    Not under this project
waste in marine, marsh and    sewerage and waste
riverine environment        disposal facilities
Increased nutrient load in the  Installation of proper   Not under this project
marine environment affects    sewerage and waste
Manatee population          disposal facilities
Linkage of Dangriga drains  T Affecting a virtually pristine  -   Choose for the       Not under this project
with Gra Gra Lagoon          mangrove habitat                 preferred option which
is a direct link to sea.
l   No further urban
development into the
Mangrove.
-   Declaration of the Gra
Gra Lagoon as a
protected area.
Linkage of two swamps west  Changing local hydrology      Because severe damage to    N.A.
of Orange Walk (as                                        local hydrology and because
suggested by Town Board)                                  of engineering difficulties, no
engineering works should be
K                                                           carried out here ( 0 option").



Monitoring
Monitoring efforts should focus on three items (See also under Mitigation):
1) The proper transportation and storage of dredged sludge
2) The restricted clearing of trees along the SW Magoon Drain in Punta Gorda
3) Trafic and transportation safety
During the entire construction phase, it will be essential to monitor the above aspects
for environmental damage. Most Government departments have a monitoring capacity
but in realistic terms, the physical capacity to actually do frequent monitoring is
inadequate. Usually, there is a lack of personnel and a lack of transportation.
Institutional strengthening of these departments (provision of equipment, such as
laboratory equipment, cameras, vehicles etc.) could solve part of this problem. But in
most cases monitoring would be more effective when carried out by independent
consultants who will report their finding to the contractors, any management body as
well as to the appropriate govemment departments and or municipality.
Further study is required into the exact geology and hydrology of the swamp(s) east of
Orange Walk Town. This before any decision is taken into possible linking of these
two swamps in an attempt to alleviate flooding of a few properties in the area.
Table 3. Monitoring matrix
Activity/impact           Monitoring         Proposed Monitoring            Investrnent
l  institutionl
Dredging and removal of  i No unneeded removal of   Private consultant   -   1 day per weeks during
vegetation in and around   trees                                             construction phase
canals: Removal of
Howler Monkey habitat
(Punta Gorda)
Drecging of sluoge:     Monitoring of transport     Private consultant   -    day per two weeks
Pollution as a result of  and cleaning of spills                             during construction phase
transportation/dumping of   when required
dredged sludge (All towns) |
Traffic and equipment   Implementation of disaster   Private consultant      1 day per month
related impacts         preparedness plan                                    throughout construction
___ _ _ _ ____ _ _ _ _phase



Literature consulted
Auil, N. 1999. Manatee aerial survey 5: March 15-19. 1999. Dry season. CZMU
report. 6 pp 2 maps.
Furlev, P. A. and J. A. Ratter. 1992. Mangrove distribution, vulnerability and management in Central
America. ODA - OFI Forestr! Research Programme. contract no R 4736. 84 pp.
Furley. P. and D. Munro (Eds.) 1993. The wetlands of Belize: Ecology, Environment
and Utilisation. Dept. of Geography of the University of Edinburgh. 149 pp.
Gray. D. A., S. A. Zisman and C. Corves. 1990. Mapping the Mangroves of Belize.
Dept. of Geography of the University of Edinburgh. 31 pp. 2 app. 2 Maps.
Greenfield. D. W. and J. E. Thomerson. 1997. Fishes of the Continental Waters of
Belize. University press of Florida, Gainesville. 311 pp.
Irernonger, S. and N.Brokaw. 1995. Vegetation Classification for Belize. In: PfB.
1995. Towards a national protected area systems plan for Belize. Synthesis report.
Programmeme for Belize.
IUCN, 1996. IUCN Red list of Threatened Animals. IUCN, Gland. 368 pp - annex.
Lee. J. C. 1996. The amphibians and reptiles of the Yucatan Peninsula. Comstock
Publishing Associates. Ithaca. 499 pp.
Meerman. J. C. 1998. Ecological Assessment of the second bridge crossing for the
Macal River in San Ignacio, Belize. Report to Halcrow Group Ltd.
Meerman, J. C. 1999. Ecological Study Orange Walk Town - Bypass Proposal.
Report to Halcrow Group Ltd. 22 pp + app.
PfB. 1995. Towards a national protected area systems plan for Belize. Synthesis
report. Programmeme for Belize.
WC'MC. 1997. Conservation Status Listing of Plants: Status report as per 30 April
1997. World Conservation Monitoring Centre, Cambridge, U.K.
Zismnan, S. 1992. Mangroves in Belize: Their Characteristics, use and conservation.
Natural Resource Management and Protection Project. 152 pp + app.
Zisman. S. 1 994a. Priority areas for Mangrove protection in Belize. Natural Resource
Management and Protection Project. Internal Reports Vol 7/1994 (6): 5 pp.
Zisinan. S. 1998. Mangroves in Belize. Thesis. Dept. of Geography of the University
of Edinburgh.



I



U.I.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1999
N ~~~~~~~~~~~0r
GASTROPODA   IArcidae                                                                 GraGra
GASTROPODA   I Butla stnata                                                           GraGra
GASTROPODA   I Cardidae                                                               GraGra
GASTROPODA   i lsognomonidae                                                          GraGra
GASTROPODA   IMelongea sp.                                   ;                        GraGra
GASTROPODA   .Solen,dae                              i                                GraGra
LEPIDDPTERA                                         p                        i
PAPILIONIDAE   iBattus polydamas polydamas (Linnaeus)                   1    _                _
PAPILIONIDAE   IPar/des sesostris zestos (Gray)                         1
PAPILIONIDAE   IPardes iphidamas iphidamas (Fabricius)              I  1
PAPILIONIDAE   i Protographium philolaus philolaus (Boisduval)          1 1
PAPILIONIDAE   iHeract/des thoas autoctes (Roths & Jordan)              1   _
PIERIDA-E      1Me/ete isandra (Bo,sduval)           _        |          1   _.
PIERIDAE        iAppias drusilla drusilla (Cramer)   _        1          1
PIERIDAE       litaballia demoph/le calydonia (Boisduval)                1 I  1  1
PIERIDAE    i Ascia monuste monuste (LJnnaeus)   i           ___    1
PIERIDAE        jPhoebis philea phitea (Linnaeus)                        1 1            ___1
PIERIDAE        IPhoebis argante argante (Fabric/us)                    1 1         I 1_i
PIERIDAE        IPhoebis sennae marcellina (Cramer)                      1
PIERIDAE        IAphnssa boisduvalii (Fe/der)                       1  1    ______ ______
PIERIDAE        lEurema albula (Cramer)                     i            1
PIERIDAE        iEurema nise nelphe (Felder)   _i 1              ___    I
PIERIDAE        IEurema daira tydia (Felder & Felder)  I     I _         1    _
NYMPHALIDAE  IDanaus plexippus plexippus (Linnaeus)   I _     _          1   i
NYMPHALIDAE    Danaus gilippus thersippus Bates     _                 _      1        _     _ _
NYMPHALIDAE   I Colobura dirce (Linnaeus)             _        -- -      1    _ _ _
NYMPHALIDAE  IHistons odius odius (Fabricius)       _         _          1   f 1   1   _     I
NYMPHALIDAE   IMestra amymone (Menetnies)             _       1          1           -
NYMPHALIDAE   IHamadryas februa ferentina (Godart)    i _                1   1        i      I
NYMPHALIDAE   IHamadryas feronia farinulenta (Fruhstorfer)    __ 1___   1
NYMPHALIDAE  IDynamine mytitta (Cramer)             I         ___    1
NYMPHALIDAE   IMarpesia chiron (Fabricius)           I    _          I  1          _       _ I
NYMPHALIDAE  ISiproeta stelenes biplagiata (Fruhstorfer)  _   i               _        _
NYMPHALIDAE   Siproeta epaphus epaphus (Latreille)    _       __ 1  1    _                   i
NYMPHALIDAE   Anartia fatima (Fabricius)             .       i _         1    _
NYMPHALIDAE   Anartialjatrophae luteipicta Fruhstorfer    _                   _        _      1___I
NYMPHALIDAE   Eupto/eta hegesia hoffmanni Comstock                       1           I
NYMPHAJDAE   Dryas iulia moderata (Stichel)(Ri/ey?)    |             '  1   i____
NYMPHALIDAE   Heliconius charitonius vazquezae Comstock & Brown       L  n     _       _       __1,
NYMPHALIDAE   He/iconius erato petiverana Doubleday   ] _            1  1
NYMPHALIDAE   Heliconius ismenius telchinia Doubleday   _                1   |         _
NYMPHALIDAE   Consul fabius cecrops (Doubleday)       _                  1
NYMPHALIDAE  IMagneuptychia libye Linnaeus           |           j _     1   i _              j
RIODINIDAE      [Calephe/is sp.                      |         |      - _1___
RIODINIDAE      ICharis sp                           I         _       __1I_
RIODINIDAE       Emesis sp.           =           =i_j              _    1                    I
RIODINIDAE      IJuditha lamis molpe                          __I _ 1  1
LYCAENIDAE      Zizu1a cyna tulliola (Godman & Salvin)                r  1
BIRDS           i
1 = From Meerman, 1998
Belize Environmental Consultancies Ltd.    * = Introduced species                                   Sheet 1



U.I.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1999
o  C~)
:   ~       ~ ~ ~                       C) )  
CLv
r D      0L     0 .      CD      C
CORMORANTS  PHALACROCORACIDAE
IPhalacrocorax brasilianus, Neotropic Cormorant, R
HERONS ARDEIDAE                                       _        ___                            _
Ardea herodias, Great B1ue HeronWR
_  Egretta alba Great Egret, WR                   Independence str.
iEgretta thula, Snowy Egret, WR
_Egretta caeruiea, Little Blue Heron, W
Bubuicus ibis, Cattle Egret, WR
|Butorides virescens, Green (backed) HerolS.Andres    Independence str.
I Nycticorax violaceus, Yellow crowned Night Heron, WR           _
SWANS, GEESE AND DUCKS ANATIDAE                       _        I       '       _       _
lAnas discors, Blue winged Teal W     _       _
NEW WORLD VULTURES  CATHARTIDAE                       _        _       j               _       _
Coragyps atratus, Black Vulture, WR         , __                             !
Cathartes aura, Turkey Vulture, WR P   _                                    j
KITES, HAWKS, EAGLES AND ALLIES ACCIPITRIDAE
Buteo nitidus, Gray HawkR P                  _        _       _       _
Buteo magnirostns, Roadside Hawk, P    _     j       .        _
FALCONS AND ALLIES FALCONIDAE                        i         I
I Fa/co rufigularis, Bat Falcon, R            j
CHACHALACAS, GUANS AND CURASSOWS  CRACIDAE               i            I
|Ortalis vetula, Plain Chachalaca, P  _              I j               '
RAILS, GALLINULES AND ALLIES RALLIDAE                 _               i       |
Aramides cajanea, Gray necked Wood Rail, R P                 j       
'Clapper Rail                       IS.Andres         _        _       I__
I Limphin                           IS.Andres
Northern Jacana                      i swamp I
FINFOOTS  HELIORNITHIDAE                               _       I _     I _      _
iHeliornis fulica, Sungrebe R P              j               -                i
SANDPIPERS AND ALLIES  SCOLOPACIDAE                  !_       i   I                   i
iActitis macularia, Spotted Sandpiper, WT !  |       ! _              I       i
PIGEONS AND DOVES  COLUMBIDAE                        I         !____
IColumba f7avirostris, Red bilied Pigeon, R I  T              _        i
I Columbina talpacoti, Ruddy Ground Dove, R
jLeptotila verreauxi White tipped Dove, R I   _        i       _       I
NEW WORLD PARROTS  PSITTACIDAE                        _        _              | __._.
jAratinga astec, Aztec Parakeet, R    _        _       _
CUCKOOS  CUCULIDAE                                    I       |
Piaya cayana, Squirrel Cuckoo, R P   _               I _      _
Crotophaga suicirostris, Groove billed Ani, R   _     i
HUMMINGBIRDS TROCHILIDAE                                      -        
H  Pygmornis longuemareus, Little Hermit, R
Amazilia tzacatl, Rufous tailed HummingbirlS.Andres _         Riverside
TROGONS TROGONIDAE                                    I                        |
Trogon melanocephalus, Black headed Trogon, R
Trogon violaceus, Violaceous Trogon, R
MOTMOTS  MOMOTIDAE                                            t _       _       i
Momotus momota, Blue crowned Motmot, R       |
KINGFISHERS  ALCEDINIDAE                                       _       I  |
ICeryle alcyon, Belted Kingfisher, W  ____ ,_I_I
1 = From Meerman, 1998
Belize Environmental Consultancies Ltd.    * = introduced species                                    Sheet 2



U.l.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1999
-               M 
-        00       CD
I Chloroceryle amazona, Amazon Kingfisher, P
i Chloroceryle americana, Green Kingfisher, R
TOUCANS RAMPHASTIDAE
I Pteroglossus torquatus, Collared Aracan, R
PICULETS AND WOODPECKERS  PICIDAE
I Centurus aurifrons, Golden fronted Woodpecker, R
IDryocopus lineatus, Lineated Woodpecker, R
ANTBIRDS  FORMICARIIDAE
Thamnophilus doliatus, Barred Antshrike,_R R
TYRANT FLYCATCHERS TYRANNIDAE
i Empidonax sp., Unidentified Flycatcher, T
Sayomis nigricans, Black Phoebe, R
Pitangus sulphuratus Great Kiskadee, P
Myiozetetes similis, Social Flycatcher, R
Tyrannus melancholcus, Tropical Kingbird,_R R
COTINGAS  COTINGIDAE                                          i
iPachyramphus aglaiae, Rose throated Becard, P
SWALLOWS  HIRUNDINIDAE                                        i
Progne chalybea, Gray breasted Martin, R      _    _I
I Tachycineta albilinea, Mangrove Swallow, R  i    _i
I Hirundo rustica, Barn Swallow, WT           I
JAYS AND CROWS  CORVIDAE                                      I
i Cyanocorax mono, Brown Jay, P
WRENS  TROGLODYTIDAE                                  i
I Campylorhynchus zonatus, Band backed Wren, R  I  _I
Thryothorus maculipectus, Spot breasted Wren, P
MOCKINGBIRDS, THRASHERS AND ALLIES  MIMIDAE   1                 _
I Dumetella carolinensis, Gray Catbird, W    _    I                    i        !
VIREOS  VIREONIDAE                                    I
Vireo flavifrons, Yellow throated Vireo, W
Virec olivaceus, Red eyed Vireo, W   I
WOOD WARBLERS EMBERIZIDAE-PARULINAE                   1                I _                      i
I Dendroica magnolia, Magnolia Warbler, WI    . -
Dendroica dominica, Yellow throated Warbler, W        I       I _
iMniotilta vana, Black and white Warbler, W   i                        !_j
Setophaga ruticilla, American Redstart, W    F        . _
I Seiurus motacilla, Louisiana Waterthrush, WT  _              :       ! _
Wilsonia citnna, Hooded Warbler, W   I        .
TANAGERS  EMBERIZIDAE-THRAUPINAE                                                i _
iEuphonia hirundinacea, Yellow throated Euphonia, R _   _
Thraupis abbas, Yellow winged Tanager, R      _        I _
IPiranga rubra, Summer Tanager, W
GROSBEAKS AND BUNTINGS  EMBERIZIDAE - CARDINALINAE    i                 I
Saltator atnceps, Black headed Saftator, R
Cyanocompsa parellina, Blue Bunting, R  |             ]       T
BRUSHFINCHES, SEEDEATERS, SPARROWS AND ALLIES  EMBERIZIDAE - EMBERIZINAE
Volatinia jacarina, Blue black Grassquit, R  i        ! 1                      I
ISporophila aurita, Variable Seedeater, R              __I
Sporo phila torqueola, White collared Seedeater, R    1                        I____
AMERICAN BLACKBIRDS AND ORIOLES ICTERIDAE              i       i         i                       I
1 =From Meerman, 1998
Belize Envirorimental Consuftancies Ltd.      = Introduced species                                     Sheet 3



U.l.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1 999
0 ~~~~~        I0r
iDives dives, Melodious Blackbird, R
iQuiscalus mexicanus, Great tailed Grackle, R  iSkeletonipendenc Riverside
i Redwinged Blackbird                 S.Andres
Icterus mesomelas, Yellow tailed Oriole, R
I icterus galbula, Baltimore Onole, R                  _
_Amblycercus holosenceus, Yellow billed Cacique, R    I        I
FISHES, AMPHIBIANS, REPTILES, MAMMALS                   _
Fishes
i Belenox belzanus                            ISkeleton                r         Magoon
ICrana                                 swamp            _       _        _
Gambusia sp.                                 ISkeletonipendence str.            Magoon
Tuba                                  swamp !                 I
Molisiensa sp.                        _                                        . Magoon
IXippophorus maculatus                        ISkeleton        I
Astyanax fasciatus, Mexican Tetra                      River   _
Amphibians                                              _       _     _    _
Leptodactylus sp.                    IS.Andres    Independence str.    i GraGra
Rana bernandieri                     IS.Andres _       _                       j
jBufo marinus, Marine Toad           1        F _              i
Reptiles          _                                             _       I  i_i__
ICtenosaura similis, spiny-tailed Iguana       _        _      j__              i
Iguana iguana, Green Iguana                    ___ I _                         I
iAmeiva undulata
Sceioporus teapensis                 I         ___
1 Basiliscus vittatus, Striped Basilisk  | Swamp |Skeletonrpendenc IRiversid iGra, Mel! Magoon
Crocodylus moreletti                  Swamp ISkeletonj _                GraGra I
IDrymobius margaritiferus, Speckled Racer I   i 
Mammals          I
IDasypus novemcinctus, Nine-banded Armandilio         i
I Sciurus yucafanensis, Yucatan Squirrel  |           1 _       _
1 = From Meerman, 1998
Belize Environmental Consuitancies Ltd.      * = Introduced species                                     Sheet 4
I



U.l.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1999
-. 
0Ef:    fN  O   ncb    .o
FLO RA
Acanthaceae     iAphelandra deppeana                                       1
Acanthlaceae    IBlechum pyramidatum                                       1
Acanthaceae      Bravaise bernandienana                 West
Acanthaceae     lOdentonema sp                                             1
Acanthaceae     iThunbergia fragrans?                                  i  1
Adiantaceae     iAcrostichum aureum                            ISkeleton                i GraGra
Agavaceae       lAgave americana                               !i                                Magoon
Amarylidaceae   IHymenocallis littoralis                               j                 GraGra
Anacardiaceae    Metopium brownei                       West
Anacardiaceae    Spondias mombin                             -             1   IRiverside       I Magoon
Annaciardiaceae  i Metopium brownei                                   i   1              GraGra i
Annonaceae       -Annona reticulata                                        1
Annonaceae      lAnnona glabra                        !          Skeleton'
Annonaceae      iUnknown                                                   1   - 1Gi
Apocynaceae      Allamanda cathartica                         i                          GraGra
Apocyriaceae    !Aspidosperma sp.                                              I                 Magoon
Apocynaceae    Icameraria latifolia                     West I          L      I
Apocynaceae      Tabemaemontana chrysocarpa             _              j  1   1 _
Apocynaceae    I Tabemaemontana sp.                     West
Apocynaceae    tThevetia ahouai                       L West               1                     Magoon
Apocyriaceae    i Thevetia gaumen                      _               i  1
Araceae         I-Xanthosoma sp.                                       i  1            1 _
Araceae          lAnthurium nr Schlechtendahlii i       West           i
Araceae          lAnthunum sp.                          West i                 ._i
Aracea,e        IPhilodendron sp.                        West              1
Araceaie         Syngonium podophyllum                  _              i  1             j
Araceaes         Syngonium sp.                          _                      | _       GraGra I
Araliaceaae      Dendropanax arboreus
Arecaceae       |Acoe/orraphe wnghtii                  Riversid |Skeleton               Gra Gra
Arecaceae        lAcrocomia mexicana                  - _       ____i                   i 1
Arecaceae        iAstrocaryum mexicanum Lisbm.        - _                       j _              Magoon
Arecaceae        !Attalea cohune                               i _                  I           I Magoon
Arecaceae        IBactns major var. major                West iI i                               Magoon
Arecaceae        I Chamaeodora seifrizii                 West I                                 I
Arecaceae        Cocos nucifera                         _                       i        GraGra _
Arecaceae        Crysophyla stauracantha               1 West                                    Magoon
Arecaceae        Desmonchus orthacanthos                 West
Arecaceae        iDesmoncus orthacanthos Mait.                              1    _               Magoon
Arecaceae        Sabal mauntiiformis                     West
Arecaceae        ISabalyapa                                     Skeleton
Aristolochiaceae  jArstolochia trilobata                 West i          j      | _              I
Asclepiadaceae  iGonolobus (?)                           West           i       i                I
Asclepiclaceae    Asclepias curassavica                                     1
Asteraceae       | Weddelia trilobata                            _                                Magoon
Bignoniaceae     Parmentiera aculeata                          |        i  1   i
Bignoniaceae     I Tabebuia rosea                      I         i               _        _       Magoon
Bomabacaceae    Pachyra aquatica                           I _   [                                Magoon
Bombacaceae      Ceiba pentandra                       j       I_       |   1
Bombacaceae    IPachira aquatica                       I West           I
1 = From Meerman, 1998
Belize Environmental Consultancies Ltd.       = Introduced species                                     Sheet 5



U.l.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1999
=        °       z <=cG=
0                               C(n  Or
N    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  
Boraginaceae    I Cordia alliodora                                          1
Boragrnaceae     Cordia sp.                                                                       Magoon
Boraginaceae    IHeliotropium sp
Bromeliaceae    iAechmaea bracteata                      West
Bromeliaceae    IBromelia pinguin                       _                                         Magoon
Bromeliaceae    I Catopsis sp.                           West
Bromeliaceae    ! Tillandsia bulbosa                     West            _       _
Bromeliaceae     Tillandsia sp.                          West                                     Magoon
Burseraceae     lBursera simaruba (L.) Sarg              West               1             GraGra
Burseraceae     1Protium copal                                              1
Cabombaceae    Cabomba palaeformis                                      _        ____Magoon
Cactaceae         Selenicereus testudo                   West                    _        __._            .
Cactaceae       ! Unknown                                                   1 -   1              j
Caesalpinaceae  iBauhinia divancata                                        1   ! _
Caesalpinaceae  iBauhinia herrerae                       West               1                    ' Magoon
Caesalpinaceae  laauninia sp.                          - W                  1    _        _         _
Caesaipinaceae   ; Caesalpinia gaumen                    West                    _        I
Caesalpinaceae   i Cassia grandis                                    1        1
Caesalpinaceae  IHaematoxylon campechianum               West I
Caesalpinaceae   Senna sp.                                                                       i  Magoon
Capparaceae    ICapparis frondosa                      I       1            1   j         _          _
Capparaceae      I Cleome lanceolata                   2       .            1 - _
Capparaceae    IC/eome viscosa                                              1
Capparaceae      Crataeva tapia                         _                   I 1  1   !____
Capparaceae       Forchhammena tnrfoliata                                   1
Caricaceae        Carica papaya                                             1
Cecropiaceae     I Cecropia peltata                     _                   1
Celastraceae     I Celastrus chiapensis                  West '                 .        I            _
Clusiaceae       Ca/ophyllum bras/iiense                _        _       -               _         Magoon
Combretaceae   IBucida buceras                         | West               1   lRiverside       ! Magoon
Combretaceae   IConocarpus erectus                     iI T_    GraGra
Combretaceae    Lagunculana racemosa                                            I         GraGra
Combretaceae    Terminalia catappa                      _                       |         I GraGra
Convoivuiaceae  l/pomoea pes-caprae                     _        _       I_     I         GraGra
Convolvulaceae  llpomoea spp.                          1         ___        1    _        -
Costaceae        Costus sp.                                                              I _      Magoon
Cucurbitaceae    Melothna sp.                          |         _       +   1
Cucurbitaceae    IMomordica charantia                          -            1
Cyperaceae        Cyperussp. ?                         I _                  1
Cyperaceae       IEleochaeis sp.                         _       _       I _      i       GraGra
Cyperaceae       ISedges                               IRiverside    Independence str.
Dilieniaceae     Vine                                  IWest  _          I                GraGra _
Erythroxylaceae  IErythroxy/um spj West - _                                               GraGral
Euphorbiaceae   ICnidoscolus muftilobatus               _               1   1
Euphorbiaceae   ICnidoscolus souzae                      _                  1    _         _       1
Euphorbiaceae    Croton sp.                              West j _        _
Euphorbiaceae    Croton sp.a a                                  1           1   1          1      !
Euphorbiaceae   ICroton sp.b b1   1 _                                                     
Euphorbiaceae   IDalechampia scandens                  |       _                         . 1
Euphorbiaceae   iJatropha gaumen                       |West
1 = From Meerman, 1998
Belize Environmental Consultancies Ltd.       = Introduced species                                      Sheet 6



U.l.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1999
0                                  CC )
*                                Or~~w 
0 XC/~ .Z CD
Euphorbiaceae   I Pedilanthus tithymaloides                                 1
Euphorbiaceae   IRicinus communis                                           1
Fabaceae         Crotalana sp.                                                            Gra Gra
Fabaceae         IDalbergia ecastophylum                                                  GraGra
Fabaceae         IG/incidia sepium                       West               1                     Magoon
Fabaceae         jLonchocarpus castilloi                                    1
Fabaceae         !Lonchocarpus guatemaiensis                                1
Fabaceae         IPiscidia pisc,puia                                        1            j
Fabaceae        I Pterocarpus officinalis                                                        ' Magoon
Fabaceae        :Sesbania emerus                               !                          GraGra
Flacourtiaceae    I Unknown                                     _                _ 1____
Flacourtiaceae   IZuleana guidonia                       West               1   j                F
Heliconiaceae    iHeliconia latisphatha                IS Andres    Independence str.
Heliconriaceae   Heliconia mathisiae                           ,                !_ __            |_Magoon
Lauraceae        *Persea amencana                              ,            1
Lauraceae        Ljcana sp. ?                          j__                  1
Lauraceae         Nectandra sp.                                             1
Malpighiaceae   IBunchosia swartziana                    West                   i        :
Malpighiaceae    IByrsonima crassifiolia                                                  GraGra
Malpighiaceae   |                                               _               I _              IMagoon
Malvaceae        Hampea trilobata                      1 West  ___          1   f _       I
Malvaceae        iHibiscus pernambucensis                               ! _              IGraGra,
Malvaceae        1 Malvaviscus arborea                   West
Marantaceae      Maranta arundinaceae                  ;                  1 1            _         L
Marantiaceae     Thalia geniculata                      swamp  _                ! _              I
Melastomataceae IsMiconia sp                                                                      Magoon
Meiiaceae       ICedre/a odorata                       |       I            1
Meliaceae        Guarea sp                              _        I _            I _               Magoon
Meliaceae        Swietenia macrophylla                   West  _         - _                      Magoon
Meliace!ae      ITnchiiia havanensis                   1         1          1
Meiiaceae        Tnchilia sp| West T
Menispermaceae  Ci.ssampelos pareira                   j _       _               ! 1    __
Mimosoideae    IAcacia comigera                        | West  _          _       _       _
Mimosoideae    iAcacia dolichostachya?                 j     _     _        1    _        I    _
Mimoscideae    lAcacia gentiei                           West  _          _          I _
Mimosoideae      Acacia sp.                                                 1   1         GraGra Magoon
Mimosciideae    iAlbizia idiopoda                      !        West                                     -
Mimoscideae      Calliandra sp.                         __1___I
Mimoscideae      Enterolobium cyclocarpum              !         _          I                      __1
Mimoscideae    llnga affinis                            I        I       !  1   1
Mimoscideae     Leucaena leucocephala                   _       I        _                        _
Mimoscideae     Lysiloma acapulcense                   I                1   1_  1
Mimosolideae     Lysiloma bahamiense?                   _                    1
Mimosoideae      I Mimosa hemendieta                      West
Mimoscideae      Mimosa hondurana                                            1 |a1oj
Mimoscoideae     Mimosa pigra                                                             1     GraGra I Magoon
Mimoscideae      Mimosa pudica                                           1   1
Mimosoideae      Mimosa sp.                                                  1            i
Mimosoideae    IPithecellobium arboreum                                      1   |Magoon
Mimoscdeae      Pithecellobium sp.                              __! _I____GraGra I
1 = From Meerman, 1998
Belize Environtnental Consuitancies Ltd.      = Introduced species                                      Sheet 7



U.l.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1999
0~~~~~
°  0      zc,      m0       : 
2 n            z     8       i  
Mimosoideae    IZygia sp.                                West               ,
Moraceae        lBrosimum alicastrum                                        1
Moraceae        ICastilla elastica                     ,                    1
Moraceae        IDorstenia contrajerva                 .                    1
Moraceae        IFicus glabrata                         _                                        ! Magoon
Moraceae        IFicus insipida                                             I _   1
Moraceae        I Maclura tinctona                                          I I  1         _     .
Musaceae         'Musa paradisiaca                             !            1
Myrtaceae       i*Psidium guajava                       _       ___    1
Myrtaceae        *Syzygium cumini                       _                   1
Myrtaceae       j Calyptranthes spp.                     West  _
Myrtaceae       'Eugenia sp.                             West I
Myrtaceae        Pimenta dioica                         _       _           1    _        _       Magoon
Nymphaeaceae     Nymphea ampla                           p, S.Andres    _                         Magoon
Ochnaceae        Ouratee lucens                          West           ,         _                a
Onagraceae      iLudwigia (octovalvis?)                res, Riversidelndependence str.            Magoon
Orchidaceae      Encyclia cochleata                      West  _         _       _
Orchidaceae      Epidendrum boothianum                   West  _ _  _            -
Orchidaceae      Epidendrum nocturnum                    West
Orchidaceae      Maxillana tenuifolia                    West  _         i____I
Orchidaceae      Mormolyca nngens                        West            _       _        __L
Orchidaceae     lOnc/dium acsedens                       West
Orchidaceae     lOncidium sp.                            West
Orchidaceae      IOncidium sphacelatum                   West                   j _
Orchidaceae      I Orchids                                       _       _        _       r___ Magoon
Orchidaceae     I Pleurothal/is sp.                      West           !                i _
Orchidaceae      |Ponera striata                         West -                                  I
Orchidaceae      Rhyncolaelia digbyana                   West           I                        i
Orchidaceae     I Tigonidium egertonianum             -  West
Orchidaceae      Vanilla planifolia                      West  _         _        _
Passifloraceae    Passiflora b/flora                   j West
Passifloraceae   iPass/flora foet/da f lanuginosa        West
Passifloraceae    I Pass/flora foetida var. ?                               1             GraGra
Passifloraceae    Pass/flora foetida var. nicaraguensis         _         [ _     ___  GraGra
Passifloraceae   IPassiflora xiikzodz                           __ I_1_iL 
Passifloraceae   jPassilfora b/flora                   , _       _          1   i
Passifloraceae   IPassiffora conaceae                           I
Passifloraceae   IPassiffora rovirosae                 '
Passifloraceae    Passilfora serratifolia              ,1
Piperaceae       Peperomia  sp  1.                     I  West   _______   _______   ______   _____
Piperaceae       I Peperomia sp 2.                     I West                            I
Piperaceae       Piper aequale                           _       _          1            ,        I
Piperaceae       Piper auritum                          _         _       I      ' _               Magoon
Piperaceae       Piper spp.                                                                        M ! _   1   T _   agoon
Poaceae         1 Cynodon dactylon                     [        1       | I      |       I
Poaceae          I Guadua longifolia
Poaceae          Gynerium sagittatum                   I       -        1        1
Poaceae          Phragmites australis                                            1GraGra 
Polygonaceae    I Coccoloba belizensis                    West                   1         GraGra Magoon
Polygonaceae     Coccoloba schiedeana                  I West  _          1       1        |       T
I = From Meerman, 1998
Belize Environmental Consultancies Ltd.      * = Introduced species                                     Sheet 8



U.l.P. Flora and Fauna listing
September 1999
0~~~~~~
0~~~~~
o t-
Polygonaceae    ICoccoloba sp small leaved              West
Polygonaceae    i Gymnopodium floribundum               West
Polygonaceae     Polygonum sp.
Pontederiaceae   E,chhornma crassipes                   swamp
Rhamnaceae       *Ziziphusjujuba                                           1
Rhamnaceae       Gouania sp.                                               1   :
Rhamnaceae       Krugiodendron ferreum                  West
Rhizophoraceae   Rhizophora mangle                    ,_ ,_,_GraGra, John Cr. Melinda
Rubiaceae       fA/sets yucatenensis Is                         ,_         1
Rubiaceae        Guettarda combsii                    I         _          1             GraGra
Rubiaceae        Hameba patens                        ,         _       i  1
Rubiaceae        Randia sp.                                                              G      IaIra Magoon
Rubiaceae                                                      :       !     _! GraGra I Magoon
Rutaceae        1 'Citrus sp.                           _       _        L  1
Rutaceae        :Zanthoxylum sp.                               !         I _                     Maooon
Salicaceae       Salix humboldtiana                            ___         1
Salviniaceae     Salvinia sp.                           swamp I        I_              _i        I
Sapindaceae      Allophylus campostachys               _        _        |  1            _       Magoon
Sapindaceae      Cupania belizensis                     West I             1
Sapindaceae      Paullinia sp.                             I _   I _       1
Sapindaceae      Sapindus saponana                    '         |        [  1           1 r
Sapindaceae      Thouinia paucidentata                  _              !  1   .          _       I
Sapotaceae       Chrysophyllum oliviforme               West |             1            1
Sapotaceae      IManilkara zapota                       West           i . _                     Magoon
Sapotaceae      IPoutena mammosum                              1           1                    I
Sapotaceae         Pouter/a spp.                        _                  1
Scrophulariaceae  Bacopa sp.                           |        |Skeletonl _     1 
Simaroubaceae   Simarouba glauca                       |        ___    1   I _                   Magoon
Smilacaceae      Sm/lax sp.                            I West I          [     1 i           _
SolanaceBae      Solanum spp.                           _       _          1   1
Sterculiaceae    Guazuma ulmifolia                     I                 __ 1           I
Theophrastaceae IJacquinia sp.                         l West          L
Tiliaceae        I Mutingia calabura                           I                                i
Typhaceae          Typha domingensis                   mp, riverside    |              * GraGra
Ulmaceae        j Trema micrantha                      |                I                        Magoon
Verbenaceae      lAvicennia germinans                   _               I       F        GraGra
Verbenaceae      Stachytarpheta sp.                    I                        |        GraGra I
Verbenaceae      IVtex gaumenr                           West    I_         1    _              ]Magoon
Verbenaceae      I Vitex kuylen,i i                             _        _        __i             Magoon
Vitaceae         vitis Sp. *                                    _           I    __1___
Vitaceae         'Vitis tiliifolia                     I _              i   1   i       1
Zamiaceae       ,Zamia picta                                   1   _         _      _             Magoon
Zamiaceae       iZamia polymorpha                        West      1        1
1 = From Meerman, 1998
Beize Environmental Consuftancies Ltd.      * = Introduced species                                     Sheet 9



I



I



C        Archaeology



URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Environmental Impact Assessment
Report on Archaeological Resources
Subrnitted by
Juan L. Bonor
to Hailcrow Group Ltd.
September 23, 1999
INTRODUCTION
This report aims to identify the potential impacts on archaeology associated with
the proposals for drain construction and upgrade in 6 towns in Belize. The towns
incluided in the study are Benque Viejo del Carmen, San Ignacio/Santa Elena,
Dangriga, Punta Gorda, Orange Walk and Corozal. A reconnaissance study tour
was made between 18 and 25 August 1999. Site Visits were made and meetings
were held with each of the Town Boards. Following the initial town visits the
teams split into groups, Mr. George Can, assistant archaeologist, Mr Juan Bonor
comprising the archaeological team revisited each of the towns in order to carry
out more detailed studies as necessary. The objectives of this survey have been
to investigate whether any archaeological, historical and colonial zones would
be affected by the construction of the drainage works. This report also details
the mitigation measures necessary to control any adverse impacts caused by the
proposed works. This work was done in accordance with Section 34 of the
Ancient Monuments and Antiquities Ordinance in Belize.
Due to the fact that the project is centered in urban centres, it will be difficult and
complicated to ascertain whether archaeological remains will be found during
the excavation of the drains. Difficulties arise as the existing information
comprises of previous survey data from each of the areas under study which is
limited. It must be considered that both small Mayan settlements and great
Mayan centres (for example, Santa Rita in the Corozal District) have already
been destroyed in the process of building some of the towns and settlements
that exist today. There is plenty of evidence of old cities where the new towns
stand today. It could be assumed that if any cultural remains were to be found
during the excavation of the drainage, these could be classified under two types.
Firstly, the remains could be of the Maya culture in San Ignacio, Benque,
Orange Walk and Corozal, and secondly, of historical culture and/or colonial
material in Punta Gorda and Dangriga. This report has a summary of the historic
past of the six towns, as well as the results of the superficial survey carried out
from 18 August to 3 September 1999. This report also contains the cost of the
mitigation measures which will be taken, if necessary, to ensure the preservation
1



of any archaeological site. This was deemed necessary after consultations with
the Department of Archaeology (DOA), Ministry of Tourism,
I
2                                              I



ANTIQUITIES LAWS
Chapter 259. Ancient Monuments and Antiquities (1980).
1. This Ordinance may be cited as the Ancient Monuments and Antiquities
Ordinance
2. In this Ordinance.....
"Ancient Monument" means any structure or building erected by man or any
natu:ral feature transformed or worked by man, or the remains or any part
thereof, whether upon any land or in any river, stream or watercourse or under
the territorial waters of the country, that has been in existence for one hundred
years or more;
"Antiquity" means any article manufactured or worked by man, whether of stone,
pottery, metal, wood, glass, or any other substance, or any part thereof-
(i) the manufacture or workmanship of which belongs to the Mayan or other
American civilization being of an age of one hundred and fifty years or more; or
(ii) the manufacture or workmanship of which belongs to a civilization other than
the Mayan or American civilization being an article which is of an age of one
huncred and fifty years or more;
(iii) "Minister" means the Minister of Trade and Industry or the Minister for the
time being responsible for ancient monuments arid antiquities and includes any
person by name or by office authorized in writing by the Minister to carry out any
of his functions under this Ordinance.
4. All ancient monuments and antiquities however situate, whether upon any
land or in any river, stream or water-course, or under territorial waters of the
country, and whether or not before the date of the commencement of this
Ordinance in private ownership, possession, custody or control, shall absolutely
vest in the Crown.
23. The Archaeological Commissioner, or any person authorized by him in
writing for that purpose, may at any time enter upon lands granted or leased by
the Crown ....
34.- (1) The Archaeological Commissioner may direct any land owner, lessee,
concessionaire, contractor or any other person who is about to engage in any
operation which in the opinion of the Archaeological Commissioner is liable to
destroy, damage, interfere with otherwise be to the detriment of any ancient
monument or antiquity.
3



(a) not to proceed with any operation until the Archaeological Commissioner
shall have had an archaeological exploration and survey carried out; and
(b) to take or to refrain or desist from taking any such action as part of the
operation as the Archaeological Commissioner may decide to be fair and the
reasonable for the proper protection of the ancient monument or antiquity.
4



LITERATURE REVIEW
This section will only refer to the archaeological zones which are directly related
to the six towns under study. We are omitting any other references to historical,
colonial or Maya settlements, which will not be affected by the construction of
the drainage schemes.
Corozal Town
Corozal Town which was founded in the middle of the eighteen hundreds (1800)
has slowly spread over the ancient Maya city of Santa Rita, Corozal, destroying
the latter with its growth and development. This ancient Maya city was an
important commercial centre. It was from this centre that cacao, honey, vanilla
and other products which came from Lamanai and El Peten via the Rio Hondo
and New River were exported up through the coast to as far as north of the
Yucatan Peninsula. In a burial dated in 500 AD many objects were found that
were similar to others found in Kaminaljuyu, in Guatemala, and in Teotihuacan
(Central Mexico). Among these objects found were ceramics of Andean origin of
the classic period. Commercial exchange with the settlements of the central
highlands continued up to the post-classic period. This is obvious in the objects
that have surfaced during the various excavations done here. Some of these
objects are ear ornaments made of turquoise and Aztec gold.
The first settlements in this site date back to 2000 BC, making it one of the
earliest settlements in the Maya area. This settlement flourished between 300
BC and 300 AD These people subsisted mainly on agriculture. We have found
platform structures upon which constructions of perishable materials were built.
These constructions dated to the post-classic period. These are unlike the
structures of the classic period which were built upon Maya crypts.
Towards the end of the last century, Thomas Gann excavated 42 mounds and
cames up with a fresco in Santa Rita in which the Mixteca influence is evident.
The original painting has actually disappeared; however, Gann, himself made a
meticulous copy of such finding. The most important excavation in this site was
done between 1979 and 1985 by Arlen F. Chase and Diane Z. Chase of Central
University in Florida. They surveyed and mapped the site and investigated
different structures, from which they obtained a large variety of objects dated to
the post-classic period. Structure 7, the largest in the site is actually exhibited to
the public. This structure was initially built during the early classic period. At the
same site of this structures a great quantity of fragments of incense burners of
the post-classic period have been found. Towards the midst of the last century,
present day Corozal Town was founded upon the archaeological site of Santa
Rita. With the founding of the new settlement a large part of the site was
destroyed with the surveying and sketching of streets and the construction of
new buildings. Buildings which themselves were constructed with the materials
5



that were gotten from the ancient Maya structures that had fallen in the wake of
the new town. However, one can still see, at a glance, mounds of good size in
various sections of the town. Yucatan immigrants who were running away from
the 'Caste War' settled in the north of Belize on land controlled by British land-
owners. These immigrants were very experienced in the growth and production
of sugar, and so started the sugar industry in the north. This is how the Corozal
and Orange Walk Districts started to develop.
Orange Walk Town
There is no Maya settlement directly associated with Orange Walk Town. There
might be the possibility that the ancient Maya-colonial city of Holpatin may be
lying underneath the present day Orange Walk Town. The city of Holpatin was
mentioned by Spanish journalists of the sixteenth century (XVI) and it was still
occupied up to the seventeenth century (XVII). Directly associated with Orange
Walk Town are the remains of Fort Mundy, which was constructed in 1874 after
Marcus Canul attacked the town of Orange Walk in 1872. This fort is located in
the centre of the town and nowadays very little of it can be seen. Standing, are
only fragments of the walls of this fort which once was erected to protect the
Town of Orange Walk.
San Ignacio Town
Clearly associated with the town of San Ignacio is the archaeological zone of
Cahal Pech. The name was give to this zone in the 1950s and it is a combination
of Yucatec Maya and Mopan Maya which means 'The Place of the Ticks'. The
Maya site can be found on a hill near the town of San Ignacio and west of the
Macal River. The acropolis, where the principal part of the site is found is made
up of 34 structures grouped within a surface area of less than one hectare. The
majority of these structures are built around 7 patios, which include the
foundation of pyramids with temples and various residential type structures of
high status. The site contains two ball courts, five plain stelae, one alter and
possibly a 'temazcal' or steam bath. We assume that plazas D, E and A were for
the priests, while plazas B, C and F seem to have been the residences of the
nobility, administrative offices and the meeting place of more or less the VIPs.
This pattern of social division is characteristic of the classic period. The city
spanned both sides of the Macal River occupying a surface area of
approximately 2 square kilometres. These people lived in low structures that had
roofs that were made of perishable materials.
This area was occupied around 900 BC to 800 AD when it was abandoned,
probably, because of pressure from Baking Pot, Pacbitun, Buenavista and
Xunantunich. During the early classic period (600-250 BC) there is apparently
i
6



no architectural activity. Cahal Pech has the same importance during the mid
classic period as it does during the late classic period. This is a time when there
is quite a lot of contact with different sites in Guatemala and Mexico. This can be
inferred from the ceramic remains found and from the obsidian which comes
from El Chayal in Guatemala.
BetNeen 1953 and 1955, Gordon Willey of Harvard University, visited the site
during his study of the settlements of the Valley of the Belize River. He did not
carry out any excavations and only described the site in his Belize Valley Report
of 1965.
In 1969 Peter Schmidt did excavations of the tomb of an important person with
out actually fortifying it. The excavation was done on structure B- 1 in plaza B.
There he found various ceremonial objects of jade, bone, ceramic, obsidian
knives, shells and a mask with a mosaic of jade and shells.
In 1988 Belizean archaeologist, Dr. Jaime Awe organized the first real
archaeological investigation of the site. He designed a detailed map in which he
sectioned off an area to be declared as Archaeological Reserve; and he also
excavated various structures in the site.
In 1991 the site was in full excavation, activity in charge of Joseph Ball, who
made a series of restoration jobs that have been widely criticized because of its
spaciousness.
And that is how then, Cahal Pech site is intimately linked with San Ignacio
because, as now, the ancient city occupied both sides of the two rivers that
surround the present day town.
Benique Viejo del Carmen
The origin of Benque Viejo del Carmen goes back to the 1860s when Yucatec
refugees (Mexico) coming from the Peten region (Guatemala) start settling this
area. Traditionally, the ancient city of Xunantunich is associated with San Jose
Soccotz; but we consider that because of its proximity with Benque Viejo del
Carmen the Maya settlements around this area must have been intimately
relatied with the above mentioned Maya city.
Xunantunich was occupied during the Classic Period probably a little before the
Christian era up until the tenth century AD surviving afterwards among
dilapidated structures. The city has three principal groups: Group 'A' is made up
of the ceremonial type structures with edifice A-6 which is 40 metres above the
ground level of the plaza; edifice A-11 and A-15 -all which have been partially
excavated consists of two plazas, and an acropolis with a central patio and a
total of 21 edifices. Group 'B' is the residential group and was occupied from the
7



seventh to the tenth century. This group consists of seven edifices. Finally there
is group 'C' which consists of 8 edifices, among which there is a ball court. On
the peripnery of the site there are edifices which were once used as dwellings.
Three carved stelae and one carved altar, along with other plain stelae and
altars were found on this site. However all that can be read on stelae 9 is that it
dates back to 830.
Dangriga and Punta Gorda Towns
There is not much information about the origin and history of these towns.
Dangriga (official name since 1975) which means Standing Creek, is the Town
of the Stann Creek District. Dangriga is built on sediments deposited at the
mouth of Stann Creek River known as DELTA SITE. Much was rebuilt after
Hurricane Hattie of 1961 and now is still liable to flood dangers.
The origin of Dangriga Town can be traced to the defeat and transportation of
five thousand Garinagu in 1797 from the island of St. Vincent to Roatan off the
coast of Honduras, and between 1802 and 1811 about 150 Garinagu settlers
had started to occupy the. Stann Creek area of Southern Belize. They were
engaged mainly in fishing and subsistence farming, visiting Belize City to sell
their produce.
The large wave of Garifuna immigrants came in after 1832 as a result of a civil
war in Honduras, and their landing here led by Alejio Beni (19 November) is now
commemorated as a National Holiday. The population was further augmented by
Creole Belizeans who started to settle in the area to take advantage of the rich
fishing grounds offshore. From 1900 -1918 the United Fruit Company converted
the Stann Creek Valley and Town into a major agricultural and commercial
center with the construction of the valley railway and Commerce Bight Pier. On
February 15, 1895 Stann Creek was declared as a Town with its own District
Board.
Like Dangriga, Punta Gorda was settled by Carib immigrants from the Spanish
Honduras. In 1745 Jesuit Fathers established a mission station. A church was
built and houses sprung up. In course of time, the town was surveyed and
rapidly grew, until, in 1882 it was selected as the headquarters for the Toledo
District. "Payn" is the unofficial Garifuna name for Punta Gorda.
8



ARCHAEOLOGICAL SURVEY
1. SAN IGNACIO/SANTA ELENA
One proposed drainage project is located in urban areas of Santa Elena. The
existing drains runs along Salazar Street, adjacent to the football pitch, to
George Price Avenue which runs parallel to the Belize River. The engineering
proposal is to widen the existing drains and construct a new outfall to the river. It
is not anticipated that there will be any significant impacts on the archaeology as
a result of the proposed engineering works. Nevertheless, it must be recognised
that the area in question is situated close to the Belize River, a location suitable
for historic Mayan settlement.
With respect to San Ignacio, the area surveyed included Savannah Street from
its junction with Branch Mouth Road up to the end of Mun5oz Street (see Figure
1). Ak great quantity of ceramic fragments and the fragment of a hand tool for
grinciing were found throughout this area. The exact place of these findings is
indicated in Figure 1.
The following charts show in detail the archaeological impact that the
engineering proposals will have on the area. In instances where the term
'unkrnown' appears under the column heading 'impact', it is not possible to
determine whether there are any archaeological remains. This will not be known
until the excavation works on the drains begin.
Salazar Street / George Price Avenue
|Parameter Impact     Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type    Magnitude  Direct-   Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
(+ or-)          indirect
Cultural   Unkown         _ Low        ? v      7        X
Heritage
Savannah Street
Parameter impact     Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type    Magnitude  Direct-   Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
.(+ or-)         Indirect
Culttjral   Unknown    -     Low       ?        ?        ?         ?
Heritage
9



2. BENQUE VIEJO DEL CARMEN
Initially the only drain that was going to be modified and repaired was the
Central Main Drain. However, after visiting the Town Board and meeting with the
mayor, other areas with drainage problems were identified, along George Street
and Liberty Street. Cultural material of Maya origin was only found in the areas
behind the school close to the Main Drain (see Figure 2) These remains were
fragments of ceramic and adobe. The proximity of the archaeological zone of
Xunantunich, the known existence of other Maya structures around Benque and
its proximity to the river, are all factors that lead us to think that at one time the
area which the Central Main Drain goes through was once a Maya settlement
that has now totally disappeared. This same problem could also be encountered
in the other areas. However, in all cases, from an archaeological point of view
the impact it will have with the construction of the drainage, will be minimal since
it is the growth and development of the towns that has caused the destruction of
Maya structures.
Central Main Drain
Parameter Impact    1 Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type    Magnitude  Direct-  Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
(+ or-)          Indirect
Cultural   Destruction      | Low      Direct   Long    Partially   yes
Heritage   of Sites                            Term
George Street / Liberty Street
Parameter impact     Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type    Magnitude  Direct-  Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
(+ or-)           Indirect
Cultural   Unknown    -      Low       Direct   ?       ?         ?
Heritage
3. PUNTA GORDA
On the 23 August, a site visit was carried out in Punta Gorda. The South West
Magoon Drain was accessed via canoe from the sea outfall. The area surveyed
extended from the sea outfall to the junction with the West Savanna Main Road.
During these routes we did not see any cultural remains which would affect the
development of the drainage project. The same can be said of the South West
Magoon Drain as can be said of the North East Magoon Drain. The North East
10



Magoon Drain passes through the centre of the town. It is not anticipated that
there will be any impacts on archaeology as a result of the proposed works.
4. DANGRIGA
The archaeologist surveyed the proposed alignments for the Lakeland Canal,
Sabal Street Canal, Melinda Road Canal, Pen Street Canal, John Creek Canal,
Havana Creek Canal, and Abogaldes Street Canal. In addition the mouth of the
John Creek Canal (situated near to the Pelican Resort) and the mouth of the
Miskin Canal were also surveyed. Dangriga has, from the point of view of the
archaeological survey, characteristics similar to those found in Punta Gorda. No
archaeological, historical or colonial material, was identified or uncovered during
the archaeological survey. It is therefore not anticipated that there will be any
impacts on archaeology as a result of the engineering proposals.
5. C*OROZAL
Corozal has been built on the remains of the ancient Maya city of Santa Rita.
FigLire 5 is a general map of Corozal Town in which the archaeological zone of
Santa Rita Corozal is indicated by little squares. This map was published in
1988 by North American Archaeologists Diana and Arlen Chase (Chase and
Chase, 1988: Figure 41). When comparing this map with the drainage
proposals, it can be observed that the San Andreas Road Drain, traverses
squares 13, 14 and 15 on the map of the archaeological zone. Likewise, it is
clear that the College Road Drain will pass through squares 10, 11, and 12 on
the archaeological map. No Maya remains were uncovered when conducting our
archaeological survey. However, it must be emphasized that the town of Corozal
has been erected in an ancient archaeological zone and that there is a
possibility of potentially uncovering some artefacts during .construction. The
same can be for the South West Magoon Drains which run along squares 7, 10,
and 16 of the archaeological map (see Figures 5 and 6). Much the same can be
said for the drains that need to be cleaned and widened on the North East
Magoon Drain and 3rd Street North. Likewise, the area referred to as Skeleton
Town has been built upon an old cemetery that is shown on the map of 1884
(see Figures 3 and 4). The measures taken to mitigate the adverse impact will
be summarized in the following chapter.
11



South West Magoon Drains
Parameter  Impact        Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type     Magnitude  Direct-    Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
(+ or-)              Indirect
Cultural    Destruction   -        Low         Direct    Long      Partially    yes
Heritage    of Sites                                     Term
College Road Drain
Parameter  Impact        Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type     Magnitude  Direct-    Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
_________ __________  (+or-)  ~ ~   Indirect  _______________
Cultural    Destruction    -       Low         Direct    Long      Partially    yes
Heritage    of Sites                                     Term
San Andres Road
Parameter  Impact        Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type     Magnitude  Direct-    Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
(+ or-)              Indirect
Cultural    Destruction   -        Low         Direct    Long      Partially    yes
Heritage    of Sites                                     Term
Skeleton Town
Parameter I Impact       Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type    | Magnitude  Direct-    Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
I___ ____  |_______ _    (+  or-)   Indirect  |
Cultural    Destruction   -        Low         Direct    Long       Partially    yes
Heritage    of Sites                                     Term
North East Magoon Drain and 3rd Street North
Parameter  Impact        Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type     Magnitude  Direct-    Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
I _________ I _________ _  [(+   or-)           Indirect
Cu!tural   | Destruction   -       Low         Direct    Long       Partially    yes
| Heritage   - of Sites                                    Term
12



6. ORANGE WALK
A meeting was held with Orange Walk Town Board on 18 August 1999, following
which a preliminary archaeological survey was undertaken. It was decided that
the areas that would be included in the detailed survey were as follows.
1. The existing culvert in San Lorenzo would be replaced by a new and bigger
one which would facilitate a greater flow of water underneath.
2. The area between the two ponds was also surveyed as this had been
suggested as a possible route through which to install a new drain. It is not
now anticipated that this proposal will go ahead.
3. To clean and widen the existing drains that unite the areas of Cinderella
Street with the first of these ponds (Dunn Street Drain).
4. To survey the area of Ziricote Street.
5. To survey the area of Tangerine and Savannah Street, and new areas of
expansion in the town up to the swamp next to the river.
The archaeological team surveyed all the areas and here one must recatl that
according to various investigators (Finamore 1994, Hammond 1974, Jones
1989, McAnany 1999 and Thompson 1991) the ancient colonial Maya city of
"Holpatin" could possibly have been in the location that Orange Walk Town is
situated today. The exact location, however remain uncertain (see Figure 8).
The area indicated by Item No. 1 above, that is, to replace the existent culvert on
the San Lorenzo Road, poses no problem from an archaeological point of view.
The same could be said of area 4 (Ziricote Street) and area 5 (Tangerine and
Savannah Streets). However the surveyed areas marked off by Items 2 and 3
deserve special consideration. No indications of Mayan settlement were found
on the surface of the ground in these locations. However, ceramic fragments of
Mayan origin were discovered in the area situated between the two ponds (area
5) (see Figure 7). It was also observed that many of the rocks that form people's
garden walls or garden fences could have been made from ancient Maya
structures. This is the reason why preventive measures must be taken while
carrying out these tasks, especially in the area situated between the two ponds
and when working in the urban centre of Orange Walk on the drains that goes
along Cinderella Street.
13



Dunn Street Drain
Parameter  Impact        Evaluation of potential Impacts
Type     Magnitude  Direct-    Duration  Avoidable  Irreversible
(+ or-)              Indirect
Cultural    ?                      ?           ?         ?         ?           ?
Heritage   I
14



MA1N4AGEMENT PLAN TO MITIGATE ADVERSE ARCHAEOLOGICAL IMPACT
The plan to mitigate the adverse effects that, from an archaeological point of
view, UIP states, can be divided into two types of procedures depending on the
area or areas under consideration. In both cases the Department of Archaeology
of EBelize grants approval to the measures of mitigation taken to protect what
was. This came about after several consultations and visits to the towns of
Orange Walk and Corozal done in the company of Mr. Allan F. Moore, Acting
Archaeological Commissioner. The measures taken for protection follows and
the two types of procedures are:
* Trial excavation and recorcding, and
* Monitoring
These approaches are discussed below.
1. EXCAVATION
The excavation of certain areas is set up at first only for Corozal Town. The
reasons for this have been fully explained already. But we must repeat, that the
ancient and important Maya settlement of Santa Rita Corozal, is found beneath
present day Corozal Town. This suggests that each time a new house or a septic
is build, or a foundation laid, there will always surface archaeological material
that unfortunately will have lost its archaeological content and therefore its
documentary value. The archaeological value of any found artefact will have
been lost because the artefact will not have been properly excavated. According
to Mlr. John Morris (Archaeologist DOA. Personnel Communication 1999), all
over Corozal, one can find cultural Maya remains at about one foot below the
surface. Because the majority of the most important drains pass along zones that
according to the archaeological map (of Chase and Chase 1988) have Maya
ruins, it is assumed that cultural remains will appear during the excavation,
cleaning up and widening of each and every drain mentioned. One must specify
here that the postclassic period of Santa Rita Corozal (AD 900 to XVI century
European Contact) was characterized by the construction of low platforms on
which structures of perishable materials were built. This was contrary to the
classic period when high stone structures were built. This is the reason why
many of the postclassic structures cannot be seen at a glance and can be found
a few feet below the surface. On the other hand, the archaeological zone of
Santa Rita Corozal spanned in ancient times from what is nowadays Paraiso
village on the north to the south of Corozal and San Andres, expanding east
towards the sea. This means that Santa Rita must have had a surplus of marine
proclucts and trade. That is why all the areas in which the UIP will work will take
place in important archaeological areas. It must be emphasized, that very
frequently this important settlement has been practically destroyed in lieu of
15



progress and development as new edifices are erected and the town expands.
Not only has the Maya settlement been destroyed but also colonial structures for
example, the cemetery of 1884 above which now expands 'Skeleton Town'; a
cemetery which itself must have been built upon the ancient Maya city of Santa
Rita Corozal. It is very difficult "a priori" to establish for Corozal a concrete plan
for archaeological excavation. That is why, as a preventive measure and with the
certainty that the excavation of these drains will bring to light articles of
archaeological interest, we are asking that an archaeologist and four men
trained in the field of archaeology be present at these excavations. These men
are to be in charge of supervising the job for the duration of 30 days, during this
period they will conduct test pits, do sketches, take photographs and document
each and every one of the findings. The estimated period of time for each project
as well as the cost are shown under the section of Preventive measures.
2. MONITORING
Monitoring is necessary in Orange Walk, Benque and San ignacio because of
the existence of archaeological materials and in Santa Elena, Dangriga and
Punta Gorda because of the possibility that such remains could be found. The
task of supervising would only take a few days (about five days in each town)
and would take place at the beginning of the excavations and/or the cleaning up
of the drains. With this we hope to recover and to document the possible
archaeological articles that may be found in the zones. It would only be,
therefore, four small projects of archaeological supervision which are deemed
necessary for the documentation of any cultural materials that may possibly
appear. The team would consist of an archaeologist and a worker trained in the
field of archaeology for all towns except in San Ignacio, Benque, and Santa
Elena. These because they are very close to one another, one archaeologist
and three workers (one for each town) would be sufficient to do the supervision
of the tasks.
In both procedures the materials recovered during excavation will be studied,
analyzed and the final conclusions will be given to the Supervising Engineer and
the Department of Archaeology. This report will include, not only the analysis of
the materials (soil, shells, ceramic, bones and miscellaneous material), but also
sketches of units of excavation and photographs of the different types of
activities undertaken. The estimated period of time for each project as well as
the cost is shown under the section of Preventive Measures.
16



RECOMMENDATIONS
In compliance with the rules and regulations of the Department of Archaeology,
Government of Belize, these tasks should be carried out by professional
archiaeologists who are recognized, by the Department, as capable of doing
projects of this nature in Belize. As an indispensable prerequisite and before
starting on the jobs, a legal permit must be obtained from the Department of
Archaeology (Ministry of Tourism) to carry out the tasks of archaeological
investigation necessary.
17



Proposed Mitigation Measures and Cost (US Dollars)
SAN IGNACIO/SANTA ELENA/BENQUE
Mitigation Measures Personnel  Days Labor Cost  Equip. Cost TOTAL
Monitoring       3 trained    15   300        75          375
laborers
1 arch.    5    500                     500
Car Rental                  5                 375         375
Total                                                     1,250
Proposed Mitigation Measures and Cost (US Dollars)
ORANGE WALK TOWN
Mitigation Measures Personnel  Days Labor Cost  Equip. Cost TOTAL
Monitoring       1 trained    5    250        75          325
laborers
1 arch.    5    500                     500
Car Rental                   5                375         375
Total                                                     1,200
?
18



Proposed Mitigation Measures and Cost (US Dollars)
COROZAL TOWN
Mitigation Measures Personnel  Days Labor   Equip.     TOTAL
Excavation and    1 arch.  30   2,250       400        2,290
mapping selected  4 laborers  120  2,400
areas
Laboratory      1 arch.    30   2,250       200        3,650
processing      2 laborers  60   1,200
Analysis and    2 arch.    60   4,500       1,000      5,500
report
preparation
Vehicle rental             30               2,250      2,250
Subtotals                        12,600     3,850      16,450
Total Cost Proposed Mitigation Measures (US Dollars)   TOTAL
San Ignacio/Santa Elena/Benque    1,250
Orange Walk                       1,200
Corozal                          16,450                 18,900
Institutional Overhead Charges, 10%                     1,890
DoA Administration Charges                              1,800
TOTAL                                                   24,480
Contingency, 15%                                        3,672
GRAND TOTAL                                             28,152
19



Annex
June, 1997
CONDITIONS FOR ARCHAEOLOGICAL PERMITS
1.   The Department of Archaeology restates its mission to the research,
interpretation and the protection of the Archaeological Heritage of Belize as
established by the Ancient Monuments and Antiquities Ordinance, Chapter 259
of the Laws of Belize. Where archaeological research is concerned the following
conditions were formulated to reaffirm the Department of Archaeology's policies
towards foreign research.
2.   The Principal Investigator, employees, crew members, agents, associates
and organization, hereafter referred to as the grantee shall strictly abide by all
the provisions of the Ancient Monuments and Antiquities Law, Chapter 259 of
the Laws of Belize, 1980, and all Conditions for Archaeological Permits.
3.   All Principal Investigators (PI) must be on site 90% of the duration of their
research. Absentee Pls are not encouraged and therefore permits will not be
considered for any PI who will be away from the site for extended periods of
time. The Department of Archaeology must be informed if the PI is going to be
off site for any period beyond a week. In the absence of the PI a previously
designated and approved "associate" investigator will be responsible for all
activities on site. Regardless, however, all responsibility for activities associated
with the project is ultimately the PI's.
4.   The following items are required 3 months before a request for a research
permit is considered:
(a) The PI must have a Ph.D. in Archaeology/Anthropology, and have 5 years of
experience working in the Maya area. Under no circumstance will graduate
students be considered as a PI regardless of their status.
(b) A formal letter requesting a permit to excavate. This letter should state the
nature of the intended research, the site or area where the intended research is
to be conducted, and the beginning and ending dates of intended stay in Belize.
(c) Three (3) references, at least one being from an archaeologist who has
worked in Belize recently.
(d) A detailed copy of the research design. This should include consolidation if
any structure is targeted for excavation and a detailed breakdown of the budget
covering all aspects of the intended research. This should include the mandatory
5% administrative fee and 1 5% of the total budget, necessary for consolidation.
20



(e) Four copies of the summary of the research design.
(f) Written proof from funding sources and quantity of funding. All funding must
be included, including those of all crew members.
(g) Letters of permission from landowners in the research areas.
(h) Names of all crew members, their status on the project and curriculum vitae.
5.   The grantee shall pay to the Department of Archaeology an
Administration Fee immediately on receipt of a research permit. The
Administration Fee shall be calculated at five percent (5%) of the grantee's total
budget.
6.   The grantee shall furnish the Archaeological Commissioner with legible
copies of all field notes on acid-free paper at the completion of each field
season.
7.   The grantee shall furnish the Archaeological Commissioner with four (4)
copies, typewritten or printed, of all the reports compiled on the archaeological
operations and the out come thereof, as well as any article, thesis, exposition
paper or talk, written or published, relating to the operations. A copy of these
reports must also be provided on 3.5 in. IBM formatted diskettes.
8.   The grantee shall not give any press release for television, newspaper or
popular magazine without prior approval from the Archaeological Commissioner.
Such approval can only be given if we have a copy of the item to be pubUshed.
9.   The grantee is required to consolidate, stabilize and/or reconstruct all or
any portion of any ancient monument excavated by the grantee at the absolute
discretion of and to the satisfaction of the Archaeological Commissioner after
consultation with the grantee. The grantee must reserve 15% of the project
budget for consolidation/reconstruction.
(i) All consolidation, stabilization and/or reconstruction must be done
immediately following excavation, since a wait of even one year causes damage
to the structure.
(ii) All consolidation, stabilization and/or reconstruction must be financed by the
grantee.
(iii) The archaeological commissioner shall recommend a suitable person or
persons to undertake the supervision of the consolidation, stabilization andlor
reconstruction.
21



10.  If the archaeological commissioner determines after consultation with the
grantee, that the sum required for the aforementioned consolidation, stabilization
andlor reconstruction is less than 15% of the annual budget of the project, then
the Archaeological Commissioner shall specify how the remainder of the funds,
not exceeding 15% of the total annual budget of the project shall be expended in
the interest of the Cultural Resources Management of Belize.
11.  All items to be handed to the Archaeological Commissioner under these
conditions must be at the grantee's expense, and delivered to the office of the
Commissioner. No other point of delivery is acceptable.
12.  When it is deemed necessary that certain artefacts should be exported for
further analysis, no matter what the artefacts are or the quantity of artefacts, the
PI must request an export license well in advance of the departure date (at least
1 month in advance). Export License forms can be pick up from the Department
of Archaeology. A complete catalog of artefacts including field numbers and
provenance of those items to be exported must be submitted to the Department
of Archaeology before any items are allowed to leave the country. A staff
member of the Department of Archaeology must examine all artefacts before any
containers are scaled. All artefacts must be properly cataloged by the project,
using the Department's cataloging system. Only one export license will be given
for each project each year, and this applies to one shipment only (i.e. all items
must be shipped together). The contents of each container must be listed on the
lid of the containers, as well as inside the container.
13.  The grantee shall not conduct any type of archaeological work outside of
the limits prescribed in the granted permit.
14.  The land explored by the grantee, and any ancient monuments and
antiquities discovered by said grantee shall be open to inspection at all times by
the office staff of the Department of Archaeology, and the grantee shall afford
every facility for inspection.
15.  The ownership of all ancient monuments and antiquities recovered by the
grantee shall rest in the Department of Archaeology, Government of Belize.
16.  A complete type or sample collection of sherds, lithics, and other artefacts
classified and accordingly labeled shall be handed over to the Archaeological
Commissioner immediately after analysis.
17.  The grantee shall, under the conditions of the granted permit, convey in a
responsible manner, at least once during the field season, the nature, ethics and
morals of their archaeological research to the local community. The grantee
22



shall also submit a paper on the result of the field season for publication in the
Belizean Archaeology Reports.
18.  An annual report of the archaeological activity in pursuance of this permit
must be handed to the Archaeological Commissioner within six months of the
comipletion of the field season. The annual report shall include a detailed
breakdown of all expenditure in Belize and the number of Belizeans employed
by the project.
19.  The grantee shall furnish to the archaeological commissioner a
comprehensive set of annotated slides and photographs detailing the
operations, and full-size copies of all site maps, plans and drawings,
architectural section drawings of all structures within one year of the completion
of the project.
20.  The grantee shall strictly abide by all other provisions of the Laws of
Belize, Department of Customs, Department of Immigration. The Department of
Archaeology is in no way accountable for any transgression of the Laws of
Belize by the grantee.
21.   Under the Laws of Belize, all persons operating motor vehicles must have
third party liability insurance. Every crew member wishing to operate a motor
vehicle must contact the Department of Transport to ensure all the proper
documents and requirements are met.
22.  The Pi may apply for duty exemption on the equipment entering Belize for
research purposes. It is advisable that all request for duty exemption be made at
least I month prior to arrival in Belize. All such requests, including vehicle duty
exemption must be sent to the Department of Archaeology.
23.  The permit shall be liable to forfeiture in the event of any breach of the
conditions herein stated or, of non-observance of the Ancient Monuments and
Antiquities Law, or if in the opinion of the Archaeological Commissioner anything
whatsoever done, or omitted to be done, by the grantee is inconsistent with the
purpose for which the permit has been granted. It is the responsibility of the
grantee to fulfill all the Conditions for Archaeological Permits for the previous
year or no further permits will be issued to the grantee until all obligations are
fulfilled.
24. These conditions may be revised from time to time. A written notice of any
revision shall be forwarded to the grantee.
23



References
Chase, Diana A and Arlen F. Chase.
1988. A Postclassic Perspective: Excavations at the Maya Site of Santa Rita
Corozal, Belize. In Pre-Columbian Art Research Institute. Monograph 4. San
Francisco.
Coffman, A. Chase and D. Chase
1978. "The Search for Holpatin: Historic Excavations in Orange Walk". Paper
presented at the SAA Meeting. Philadelphia, PA.
Dunham, Peter S. and Phil Wanyerka.
1994. The Southem Highway Archaeological Assessment: Field
Reconnaissance. Final Report to the Inter-American Development Bank and the
Government of Belize.
Finamore, Daniel
1994. Sailors and Slaves on the Woodcutting Frontier: Archaeology of the British
Bay Settlement, Belize. Ph.D. Boston University.
Foster, Byron (ed)
1989. Warlords and Maize Men. A Guide to the Maya Sites of Belize. Cubola
Productions. Belize.
General Data. Toledo District (Archives)
Hammond, Norman
1974. "Preclassic to Postclassic in Northern Belize". In Antiquity, 48: 177-189.
Hand Book of Brithis Honduras, 1925 (Archives)
History of Dangriga (Archives)
Jones, Grant D.
1989. Maya Resistance to Spanish Rule: Time and Resistance on a Colonial
Frontier. University of New Mexico Press. Albuquerque.
McAnany, Patricia A.
1999. Orange Walk Bypass. Report on Archaeological Resources submitted to
Halcrow Group Ltd.
Sanchez, I.E.
1979. "Some interesting Belizean place-names". In Belizean Studies, vol. 7, n. 3.
Belize City.
24



Shoman, Assad.
1994. 13 Chapters of a History of Belize. The Angelus Press,
Thompson, J. Eric S.
1991. The Maya of Belize. Historical Chapters Since Columbus. Cubola
Productions. Belize.
25



w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Figure 1
4,, ,1~  
c-3 ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     I
c-.                              0 ,3i a.;_  ,3_T Z 
Lt~~~~~~~'
A   ,   .   .   ;   .   *   .   ...................................... S_, .... ,.......
S.'.
GRAPHICrHBUIP2e98/6 10.99
PLAN OF SAN IGNACIO TOWN SHOWING SAVANNAH STREET
AND LOCATION OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL ARTEFACTS



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I                                  I



Figure 2
/  ARTEFACTS (Pottery)
4 N
(T~
SCHCOO/ l%<H
>\ \4\<
.\'        Se'   1 
GRAPHICSITHBUIP30_B  10 99
PLAN OF BENQUE VIEJO SHOWING CENTRAL MAIN DRAIN
AND LOCATION OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL ARTEFACTS



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                              I



CEMETFRI
y~~
Rouch Survey of the Town of
/ >  ,>_,9.."^             COROZAL
10th September 1884
Figure 3: Corozal 1884, showing position of
Cemetry - compare with position of
Skeleton Town on Figure 4..
Skeleton
Ton
Figure 4: Map showing Skeleton Town, part of
Corozal - to be compared with Figure 3.
HICS/THBUIP3' 8/6 10.99



I                                             I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   I



Chase, '/198884
\   ' J   t       0      1      ~~~~~~~~2 Km
Figure 5: A diagram showing the quadrangle relationship for the
Santa Rita Corozal map and the relationships of the
quadrangles to modern-day Corozal Town (Chase and
Chase, 1988:87)
Figure 6: Corozal Town, 1997. Compare with Figure 5.
kPHICSITHBUIP27_8t6 10.99



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             I



Figure 7
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
*4/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
Survey Area                                 _      , 
LAHC2HUIP3861D               __
GRAPHICS'THBUIP33_6 1      PLAN OF ORANGE WALK TOWN 1997, SHOWING
ARCHAEOLOGICAL SURVEY AREAS



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I                     I



Figure 8
Y    ,,SChtumal    t   J
MEXICO
Bolon Kak
* r > ;OL / OL
ana~~~~~~~~~~~~-
LLI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
C nmubeinam                                      i t
|  Q   f   #_5t~~~chtutz)g*S          ~    r
! ~    ~~       ~ ~~~~                ~~~~ ,iote rdnoe lclt sucta,
j n _ (~Cam)
)N       s~~~ok
~~~~~~Cimin)              M4P O0WtRg some early
M; ay& communities in Be{je
7actun  ~ 6w thotc: () denotes iocality is unscetaswn
GRAPHICS'THBUIP268/16 10.99
MAP OF BELIZE SHOWING LOCATION OF HOLPATIN



I



D        Institutional Study of the Town Boards



I



D                   Institutional Study of the Town Boards
D.1                  Introduction
The institutional issues affecting the mamtenance of drainage systems in the six towns
of Belize fall into three categories- First, there is the scope of the work to be
undertaken by Town Boards and their technical and organisational capacity to perform
the necessary functions. Associated with this issue is the consideration of other
operations which mav affect the drainage system either adverselv or benevolently
(Section D.2).
Secondly, there is the issue of the management of urban development to ensure that, at
the initial stage of development, effective and economic drainage systems form an
essential part of the planning process. Associated with this are the measures necessary
to ensure that individual developers are not permitted to carrv out works which impair
the drainage svstem (Section D.3).
Thirdly, there is the issue of the availability of sufficient resources to maintain and
sustain the drainage system. This issue raises questions of the impact of the cost of
drainage services upon other demands for town services and of affordability in terms
of taxation (Sections D.4 and D.5).
These issues are each addressed in a separate section of the institutional analysis, but
each raises questions of good management practice in relation to the issue under
consideration. Recommnended courses of action are set out as a set of project packages
at the end of the Appendix.
D.2                  Draitage Maintenance
D.2.1                Maintenance Practice
Drainage maintenance responsibilites of Town Boards are confined to the clearance of
vegetation and the removal of silt and other blockages. All repairs, reconstruction, and
extension of the drainage system are the responsibility of the Ministry of Works which
responds to requests from Town Boards insofar as they can be accommodated within
the Ministry's budget.
Do No 0 R- 0 D.. My 1999    1



Town Boards do not have designated budgets and accounts for drainage maintenance
and in most towns such work is included in the general duties of the town works
departrnent.
With the exception of Orange WValk none of the towns has a record of the total length
of drains in their administrative area. In Orange Walk there are 28 miles of existing
drains which represents one mile of drains to every 537 persons resident in the town.
Using this figure as a conversion factor and applying it to the population of each town
indicates that the length of drainage channels in each is in the region of the following
figures.
Table D.1        Estimated drain lengths
Town           B    C    D    OW   SI/SE   PG
Miles                    11      15     14        28       22         9
Derived
Assurning that on average one labourer could clean 110 yards of drain per day, the
total drain cleaning labour requirement for once a vear in each town would be:
Table D.2        Estimated required labourer days per year
Town                   B    C    D    OW   SI/SE   PG
Labour Days          176      240    224    448        352      144
Denved
On the basis that there are 250 working days per year, drain cleaning represents a
labour demand of less than one labourer year in all of the towns except Orange Walk
and San Ignacio where rather less than two labourer years are necessary.
These labour requirements are well within the capacity of the works departnents even
after allowing for other duties undertaken by these departments as shown below.
Dcc No C FL: 0 D-s )y 1999  2
A
\ \ St.ND 3N_E:A \ V OL4 Ul/ \Erxvu cnmcL xt \ Pcoxeces  thbwp \F pocc\ Fzru:_Nov.do



Table D.3       Human resources for drainage per town
Town                     B       C       D      OW    SI/SE  PG
Drainage Labour          0.7      1.0    0.9    1.8    1.4      0.6
Wiorks Labourer Force    22      10      10     15      15      6
Wiorks Supervisor        1        1      1      1       1       1
Other } Road Patching
Duties} Street Cleaning  V       I  /           V      -        I
Vehicles                 1        1      2      2      2        2
Sourmr: Town Board Records
Since road maintenance is dry weather work and drains should be cleared at the
beginning of the wet season, there should be no difficultv for Town Boards to muster
the necessary labour force at the appropriate time of year.
Nevertheless, field insoections revealed that some drains had not been cleaned for a
considerable time. This was particularly serious in Punta Gorda where there were
some drains blocked by several years of growth.
This problem is partly attributable to the rapid tumover of labour. Most towns try to
relieve the problems of unemployment by regularly changing their labour force so that
the benefits of employment are widely shared. While this practice is commendable on
humanitarian grounds, it does mean that the labour force is not composed of
experienced workers and may from time to time contain labourers not fit enough for
heavy work. However, the Boards could overcome these shortcomings through using
a greater number of their labour force on drain cleaning and through efficient
supervision.
Doc No RC .-  Da. Mcy 1999   3
\\SDON_EIAR\VOL4\W\.-- At\ cbp\F Nooc



However, there is only one foreman supervisor in each works departrnent and for the
most part these men have learnt their skills on the job. So there is at least the risk that
they may not know to what standard or in what manner drains are best cleaned.
Furthermore, in some towns there is no regular inspection system or works
programrme which could ensure that all necessarv work is carried out promptlv and
effectively.
In addition to the above deficiencies there are two further operational hazards
affecting drainage. One is street cleaning and the other is solid waste disposal (locally
referred to as sanitation). Both of these matters are discussed in the next section. A
more fundamental problem relating to development is described in Section D.3.
In order to put drainage maintenance on a systematic and effective basis it is proposed
that in each town the appropriate authorities:
*   prepare a map of the drainage system
*   draw up a schedule of drains and their characteristics
*   devise an annual drainage maintenance programme
*   prepare a good practice drainage maintenance manual
*   designate and train a drainage supervisor
*   ensure a serviceable truck is regularly available.
D.2.2                Strrel Cleanin,g and Sanitatwon
Until recently street cleaning and sanitation duties were carried out by town works
departments. However, the collection of solic waste becarne increasingly difficult as
the volume of waste increased and as the condition of works department trucks
deteriorated. At the same time, the replacement of trucks became problematic,
because Town Boards lacked the necessary funds for truck replacement.
The Government's response to requests for loans was that Town Boards should
privatise sanitation services so that the private operators would supply their own trucks
as part of the contract. This year all the towns have let contracts for sanitation services
except for San Ignacio (with Santa Elena).
Of the five towns in which privatisation has been adopted Benque and Dangriga were
only just starting, and had no experience on which to base comments. Corozal and
Doc No 0 Br, C D.at: My95  4



Orange Walk were not satisfied with the contractors' performance. The contract
document for sanitation work in Corozal was inspected and it appeared to be a iegal
statement of general arrangements without sufficient detail prescribing levels of
performance required or cnteria for penalties in the case of non performance
Corozal also reported that thev were encountering cash flow problems in making the
agreed monthlv pavment to the contractor since revenue receipts did not flow in on a
regular basis and the Board had no working capital. It is highly likely that Benque and
Dangriga will encounter the same problem.
The Mayor of Punta Gorda stated that he hoped to avoid the cash flow problem by
arranging that the contractor shall collect payments from householders. This appears
to be a recipe for disaster. Firstly because it is highlyv unlikelv that householders (who
have a poor performance record for paying property tax), will be willing to pay for a
solid waste collection service which has previouslv been free of charge. Secondly, the
contractor is unlikely to collect solid waste if he is not paid.
There is also a further operational hazard arising from the privatisation of sanitation
services. Previously, solid waste collection and street cleaning were both functions of
the works departments and as a consequence spillages from the collection service were
automatically the responsibility of the same departnent. In the separated system
contractors will wish to work at best speed and least cost and will not be likely to be
concerned about major spillages. An additional burden is therefore likely to fall upon
the street cleaning operations.
This adverse impact on street cleaning may in tum adversely affect the drainage
system. This is because it was observed in most towns that solid waste had
accumulated in many of the drains. Once that has occurred, waste matter is unlikely to
be removed until the annual cleaning of drains at the end of the dry season. It was not
possible to discover whether the solid waste was dumped in the drainage channels by
householders or whether it was swept off the roads by street cleaners but neither
practice should be permitted to continue.
In the long term drainage maintenance may also be adversely affected bv the further
deterioration of the works department trucks. Nearly aD of them are at the end of
their economic life. In the present situation the Town Boards have no capacity for
Doc N. O F-v 0 D.. Mcy 1999    5
U \SWD DON _LPFA \VOL4 \We VE,, onm,,tcl. Arnn POeG\tDp\ot\Frllo.



capital accumulation and have been refused loans from the central government for
truck replacement. Some mechanism is therefore necessary to ensure that works
departments have adequate transport to ensure that roads are regularly cleaned and
that, amongst other things, waste material is not allowed to enter and block drains.
Four mechanisms are possible:
* to put street cleaning out to contract so that the private sector provides vehicles
* to raise town taxes so that each town can build up a capital reserve for vehicle
purchase
* to establish a government loan fund from which Town Boards may borrow at
favourable rates
*  to borrow at commercial rates.
Of these altematives the use of contract cleaning services is not desirable, since it
would have the effect of depriving the Boards of truck transport of any kind except on
expensive commercial hire terms. The second altemative is to be preferred since it
avoids the payment of interest. A government loan, if made available, would require
interest to be paid and commercial borrowing would probablv be even more
expensive.
In view of the uncertainties about the effectiveness of the privatisation of the
sanitation systems Town Boards should not allow themselves to become inextricably
dependent upon contractor services. To this end each town should:
*  set up a sustained monitoring system to check performance
* examine contract arrangements to ensure that the Boards have remedies for
unsatisfactory performance
* prepare a fall back plan for implementation should it prove necessary to change
the contractor or revert to an in house operation
Do-No 0 Rr C D.t May 199    6



*  review street cleanlng practices to ensure that solid waste does not get into the
drains
*  set up a capital investment fund to renew trucks.
For recommended action see Project Packages I and 3.
D.3                 Development Hazzards
D. 3.               The INature of Haz,ards
Manv of the drainage improvement works proposed m this project have become
necessary either because of inappropriate road layouts when development first occurs,
or because individual plot holders have subsequently damaged the drainage system.
Both of these shortcomings cause inconvenience and health hazards. They require
corrective action which could be avoided bv the introduction of an improved system
of development management.
D.3.2               DevelvPment Planning
When areas are about to be developed defects in the future drainage system are createc
by rectilinear road pattems which pav no regard to local topography and the associated
natural lines of drainage. As a consequence there are numerous instances where
surface water seeks to fiow across individual plots. Also ponding occurs where roads
run through depressions. In such circumstances plot holders seek to divert water from
their plots and can thereby cause further problems which, as in the case of road
ponding, result in public expenditure to remedy these defects.
While not strictlv a drainage issue it should be noted that the rectilinear road layouts
can also impair the capacity of major roads by creating side road accesses at overly
frequent intervals and sometimes at oblique angles.
D.3.3                HaZards from Plot HoZderm
Subsequent to the layout of new areas further damage to the drainage system results
from plot holders taking a variety of actions intended to improve their plots. These
include:
*  flling in drainage channels which bisect their plots
Doc No^ > O  Dav Mzl9    7
\\SEVNDON;EZA\VOL4\Wt\Ennonmr AtPXcsiw\rpr\xu_o.o



* erecting buildings over a drain so that it cannot be accessed for maintenance
* raising the level of their plot and thereby adversely affecting drains on their
boundary or adjacent plots
* constructing access ways across a drain without providing sufficient culvert space
to allow a free flow of water.
D.3.4                Inswiizona!Jncapacia
It seems that Town Boards are powerless to influence either defects in layout or the
actions of individual plot owners. Extensions to the urban area are normallv laid out
by the Ministry of Lands and only subsequently brought within the ternrtorial limits of
the Town Board. By that time it is too late to influence the layout. In the case of
subsequent activities of individual plot holders it appears that Town Boards do not
have the necessary powers or competence to regulate the actions of plot holders. Or,
if the powers exist, Town Boards are unaware of them.
In principle none of these problems should occur because under the Land Utilisation
Act land owners have to obtain the consent of the Land Utilisation Authority before
land titles are issued and permission is granted for development.
The Land Utilisation Authority comprises representatives of the Ministries of Works,
Agriculture, and Forestry, and the Commissioner for Lands and Survey. Observations
are also sought from the Departnents of Human Resources, Housing, Planning,
Environment and Public Health and the electricity and water undertakings. The Town
Board is only consulted if the land in question lies within the town boundary. If the
land is only adjacent to the town and is likely to be included at a later date the Board is
not consulted.
Notwithstanding the above procedures much development takes place which is
damaging to land drainage and road systemns. This is either because the necessary
regulatory conditions are not imposed or because those conditions are not complied
with by the developer.
In the near future all of these problems are likely to manifest themselves at Orange
Walk if, as seems probably, the proposed bypass is constructed to the east of the town.
DO: N.O  R. O Dm. M. 199C  8
\ \SDON EL\voL4\We\E5mnsDnmcl=l XXProlectr\nzbwp\Report\F!_Now.doc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



The land between the bv pass and the built up area is low Iving and ir. places is water
logged. The proposed bv pass will be several feet above existing ground level Despite
the high water table this land is likely to attract development and unless some special
action is taken it is very probable that:
*   plot holders will tip material to raise their ground level
*   land drainage pattems will be distorted or destroyed
*   an excessive number of access points will occur on the by pass.
D.3.3               RemedzalAction
Orange Walk has already been designated as a Special Development Area and is
therefore identified as an area for special consideration. The bypass project includes
proposals for the maintenance of environmental standards including drainage.
However, the necessary administrative arrangements and regulatory systems are not yet
in place . It is therefore proposed that this project be used as a pilot project to bring
into being an effective development management system. The experience from such a
project should then be used to devise a development management system which could
be applied in all towns in Belize.
Once such a development management system has been adopted a new responsibility
will fall to Town Boards. They will have to inspect and control all development
activities which may affect drainage and any other matters which may be identified as
requiring control.
For recommended action see Project Package 2.
D.4                  Resource requirements
D.4. 1               Iuman Resourres
The foregoing sections on drainage maintenance and development hazards include
proposals for improvement in services and consequential manpower requirements. In
the case of drainage maintenance there are some 'once only' tasks which include:
*   mapping the existing drainage system
*   preparing a schedule of drains
*   preparing an annual maintenance programme
*   drafting a good practice maintenance manual.
Do- No R., - D- Me 1995    9
U SWN'DON..JSA \VOU \W%e \Enn. onmcac.a A. .en \P,o1enc \dcbwp \7L.,ort\ mNov.do,



It is also proposed that a drainage supervisor post be created which would be a
permanent appointment.
Sirnilarly in the case of sanitation it is proposed that a system of regular monitoring of
contractors be instituted and that a faL back position be prepared to enable Town
Boards to cope with the problems should a contractor prove to be unsatisfactory. The
monitoring officer should also be able to perform this function.
The proposals for the avoidance of drainage hazards anticipate that, upon the adoption
of development management measures, there will be a once only task to prepare town
development schemes and criteria followed by a continuous task of development
regulation.
Neither the towns themselves nor the departments of central govemment appear to
have the necessary resources to perforrn the 'once only' tasks and these would be
performed on a contract basis.
Conversely, the roles of drainage supervision, sanitation monitoring and development
management are all permanent tasks which would normally be regarded as
responsibilities of a town engineer and his department. However, the staffing of
existing town works departnnents does not include staff with sufficient training and
experience to perform all these functions effectively. It is therefore proposed that the
establishment of town works departments be reviewed with the object of increasing
the levels of expertise and manpower to enable Town Boards to perform these
functions more effectively.
D.4.2               FinandaZ Resourres
See Section D.5.
D.5                 Financial Capacity
D.5. 1              Jntrvductlon
The financial capacities of the Town Boards depend on the size of their populations,
the revenues which they should be able to collect, and the efficiency with which they
collect them as wel as the manner in which these revenues are used. Since this project
is concemed only with drainage improvement and management, this appraisal does not
D, Nc.C R-. O D.t May '999   10
\F



provide a complete analysis of financial management in each of the towns' finances
and confines itself to:
*   a comparative analvsis of tow;n revenues between 1995 and 1998 and between
towns at each of these dates
*   the product and performance of propertm tax and other local revenue
*   capital accounts and cash flow
*   potential improvement in revenue
*   conclusions on financial capacitv.
Financial data have been obtained from a simnilar fmancial review carried out in 1996
and from financial statements (or summaries thereof) for 1998/9 which were obtained
during visits to Town Boards.
D.5.2               Population
Table D.4 show that two towns, Benque and Punta Gorda, have grown rapidlk. In
both cases local officials have said that this growth is largely due to formal and
informal migration from Guatemala of people with low income potential and no
capital for investment.
Table D.4       Urban populanons in 1995 and 1998
Year          B         C          D         OW        SI/SE       PG
1995         4,765       7,794      6,930    13,425      11,690     3,680
1998          6,200      8,085      7,390    15,055      11,570     5,010
Net           1,435       291        460      1,630       (-120)    1,330
Growth
0/a Growth    30.11       3.73       6.63     12.14      (-1.03)    36.14
Source: Behte National Statistzeal O5ffce
Doc N. 0 Re.- C D..t Ma :995   11



Orange Walk is the centre of the sugar producing area and has a buoyant local
economv which probablv accounts for its substantial growth rate.
Corozal and Dangriga are both below the national average growth rate (urban and
rural) of 9.24 '/O. San Ignacio and Santa Elena together show a smaL population loss
for reasons which are not apparent since it is the business and service centre for a
substantial area.
D.5.3               Local Revenue (Gross)
With the exception of Orange Walk and San Ignacio, aD the towns which have
prepared annual statements of accounts have collected significantly less revenue from
local sources in 1998 than they did in 1995 (Table D.5).
Table D.5       Total local revenue 1994/5 and 1998/9 (BzS)
Year       B          C          D         OW        SI/SE        PG
1995        85,241   376,341     412,751   322,565      384,541         -
1998        53,600   317,660     375,995   508,952      480,385  394,293
Variance    31,641) (-58,681)   (-36,756)   186,387      95,841         -
Sou,r: ToTm Boards Statements ofAcmounts
The worst case is Benque (33.2%) with Corozal (15.59%) Dangriga (8.9%) performing
badly in contrast to San Ignacio which increased its revenue by 24.92% and Orange
Walk which has increased its local revenue by 57.78%. The poor performance of most
of the towns compared with San Ignacio and Orange Walk may be in some degree
attributable to the buoyant economy of the latter. However the basic economy of
Orange Walk and San Ignacio has not changed substantially since 1995, and certainly
not sufficiently to achieve such a substantial increase in revenue.
D.5.4               Local Revenue per Capita
If the gross local revenue figures are converted to revenue per capita then the
disparities between 1995 and 1998 and between towns become even more pronounced
DotO RN. C -  Dae May 199S   12
U\ S'ON'E At\VOL4W \W' E,,,,,OtU1Ct Ann\YtsXh=\Rnr\ulNo d 



(Table D.6). Benque revenue per capital in 1998 is almost half of what it was in 1995
and in 1998 is less than one fifth of that of Dangriga.
Table D.6       Local revenue per capita (BzS)
Year           B          C            D          OW        S/SE      PG
1995       17.88      48.28       59.56         24.02     32.89      -
1998       8.64       39.29       50.87         33.81     41.52      78.7
Denved
In terms of revenue per capita it appears that Orange Walk's massive increase in gross
revenue is in part due to an improvement upon an earlier low level of revenue
collection. Additionally, Corozal, Dangriga and Orange Walk, which have the higher
levels of revenue per capita, are the three towns in which the town clerks maintain
efficient accounting systems and are resourceful in gathering revenues. It is not
possible to comment on the high revenue per capita in Punta Gorda since it had no
accounts available for 1995 and no detailed accounts for 1998.
D1.5                Goverzmen/ Submnzior
Town Boards are not entirely dependent upon their own resources. Each receives an
annual subvention to supplement local revenue. Subvention alocations are
determnined by the Cabinet and there are no published criteria or formulae for this
purpose.
Do- N. 0 Rv  D-a, My 1999   13



Table D.7       Government subventions to Town Boards (Bz$)
Year        B        C    [  D         OW       SI/SE      PG
1995       155,000  175,000  149,800   175,438  209,033
1998        155,000  337,265  186,899   409,968  228,000   145,500
Variance       NIL  132,265   37,099   224,530   18,967
Sourr: Town Boards Stalements oJAccounns
Table D.8     Subvention per capita
Year        B        C        D        OW       SISE       PG
1995          39.24    22.45    21.62     13.06    17 .88
1998          25.00    38.00    25.29     27.23    19.71      29.04
Derived
It is difficult to discem the basis upon which the size of subventions is deterrmined.
Benque, Dangriga, Orange Walk and Punta Gorda have received similar subventions in
terms of per capita funding notwithstanding the fact that Benque Viejo has by far the
lowest locally raised revenue per capita and Dangriga has one of the highest.
D.5.6               Total Revenue
It would appear that government practice has generally moved towards bringing total
revenue per capita into a broad band between Bz$60 and BzS80 but there are no
apparent reasons for the variations within the band or for the relatively disadvantaged
position of Benque Viejo.
Doc No.0 eC: D Dat,: Ma 1999 14
\\SWIND O)N_ELMA .\V OL4 \We \En-.-.m«l t!-c  bw\soliFc_No.
rA
-v



Table D.9       Total revenue from all sources (Bz$)
Year         B        C        D       OW       SI/SE      PG
1995          140,261  551,341  562,551  207,993  593,574
1998         218,600  624,925 | 562,894  918,952  708,385  394,293
Soum: Town Boards Statements ofAccounts
Table D.10      Revenue per capita
Year         B        C        D       OW       SI/SE      PG
1995            57.04    70.73    81.18    37.08    49.97         -
1998            35.26    77.29    80.16    61.04    61.23    78.70
Denried
D.5.7               Proper)y Tax
Property Tax is the largest singe source of local revenue and the only tax levied
directly upon householders. A new system of valuation is about to be introduced (See
Section D.5. 11) but to date property has been valued by the national Valuation
Departrnent. Owner occupied properties are assessed on capital value but tenanted
properties are assessed on annual rental value. The Department then applies a
percentage rate to the aggregated values of each town to determine the potential yield.
The percentages are varied from town to town to reflect their economic potential.
These valuations have remained unchanged since before 1995.
Town Boards do not expect to gather the whole of the potential yield due to vacant
premises, absentee owners, defaulters, and other factors. They therefore set estimated
DO- N. R,k 0 D.t, M7 1999   15
\ \SVI2VDON_EIAU\ VOL4 \W,X\E,,,rO,,,,\FtO A.  thUPRrn FnIN O.dOC



revenues in their annual accounts which are lower than the potential vields. However,
even the estimated revenue is not achieved as is shown in the following table.
Doc No. 0 }, 0 Da.: May 1999    16
\ \ WNO_ll,VCI J  Evanlnnn\clc fbn\c r\Fu_o.o



Table D.11             Property valuations and yields
Town             Benque                 Corozal               Dangriga             Orange Walk          San Ignacio and      Punta Gorda
Santa Elena
Valuation      Capital     RVA          C         RVA           C         RIVA        C         R VA         C        R VA        C      R VA
Total Value    1,895,000  1,780,529   3,102,720    2,474,932   1,026,110  1,683,040   3,930,50()  4,562,062  2,816,400  2,995,646
IPercent tax        1%         4%         2%/0         5%/o        8%       10%          2%/o    6.25%         2%         7%
Yields           18,950     31,221     62,054      123,746      82,088    168,304     78,610    285,128     56,328    209,695
potential            50,171                185,800                 250,392               363,738                266,023
Yield
1995
Estimated                   31,000                 180,000              (100,000)               150,000                9(0,00(
Yield
Actual Yield                33,078                 176,574               (70,000)                109,336               91,873
EIstimated                   12.70                   23.88                  35.26                 29.92                 26 89
Capital
Do No  Per0 D.t My 1999   17
\\S7AMD0 _HLARA\VOL4\W,\Fm.1..o- do-



Town             Benque                 Corozal                Dangrig2            Orange Walk          San Ignacio and      Punta Gorda
Santa Elena
Actual Capital                8.37                   22.65                   9.85                  8.99                  9.29
1998
Estimated                   31,500                 200,000                150,000               361,350
Yield
Actual Yield                26,328                 149,551                134,562               208,569               154,661            58,465
Estimated                     5.08                   24.74                  20.30                 24.00
Capital
Actual Capital                4.25                   18.49                  18.21                  13.85                 13.36            11.67
Sour-e: National Valuation Department
Doc No 0 R., 0 Date My 199   18



It appears that Benque and Corozal estimated that their propem tax vield would be
lower In 1998 than it was in 1995 whereas Dangriga, Orange W alk, and San Ignacio
expected their vields would be significantlv higher. However, despite these
expectations the vield per capita from property tax was less than BzS20 and more than
BzS10 in all towns except Benque.
Corozal and Orange Walk have commnissioned private contractors for the coliection of
property tax for the first time in the financial vear 1999/2000. It is too earlv to reach
conclusions about the effectiveness of this arrangement, but the town clerks of both
towns expressed dissatisfaction regarding the contractor's performance to date.
D.5.8                Other Revenue
Other revenue varies from town to town but the principal sources are:
X  Liquor Licences
*  Trade Licences
*   Market Fees
•  Slaughter Houses
*  Cemetery Fees
•  Property Income
-  Some Trading Activities.
Table D.12    Local revenue from sources other than property
Year         B                    D        OW   SI/SE   PG
1995 Gross     34,704               185,866  190,730  237,848
Per capita        8.78                26.17     15.69    24.05          -
1998 Gross     32,100               251,428  300,383  325,724  103,293
Per capita        5.17                34.02     19.95    28.16    20.62
Soumrc: Town Boards Statements ofAccounts
Doe No 0 Rv:  Dat, .a 1995   19
\ \S wZhDONilA\ VOL4\W\B::e\Eron,oso: AaetPoet>xpReot auo.o



Generally these figures show indirect taxation in the form of fees and charges which
very roughly follow the pattem of revenue from propertv with Benque faring as badlv
in this source of revenue as in other sources.
D.5.9                Capita/Accounts
In previous years Town Boards have had capital accounts essentially for the
replacement of trucks and equipment. These accounts were not used for development
or any other purpose. The general practice was for Boards to obtain a loan from
central govemment for procurement and for that loan to be recorded in the Board's
capital account until it was paid off.
National govemment has now decided that it will no longer facilitate borrowings of
this type and Boards have to raise the necessary funds in other ways. The central
gDvernment has advised Boards to avoid the direct cost of acquiring trucks and other
equipment by privatising services. The intention being that private contractors will
provide their own equipment and recover the cost through service charges. This
practice is being adopted in respect of sanitation services and is discussed further in
Section 2.2. However there is a consequential financial problem described in the next
section, entiled Cash Flow.
DJ5.10               Cash Flow
This financial year, Corozal, Orange Walk, and Punta Gorda have let contracts for
sanitation for the first time, and although this has overcome the problem of
procurement of equipment, it places an obligation upon Town Boards to make or
secure regular monthly payments tO the contractors.
Corozal and Orange Walk are encountering difficulties due to the fact that revenue
does not flow into the Boards on a regular monthly basis and the Boards have no
working capital. They are therefore encountering cash flow problems which require
them to borrow and thus incur interest charges.
Punta Gorda has avoided this problem by authorising the sanitation contractor to
collect his costs from householders. While this may solve a fnancial problem it
presents a serious risk that the sanitation service may deteriorate (See Section D.2.2).
Doc No C Rv:O Dat, Ma 1999    20
\\WND_  \V L\:\rtrtlciA\r!ettbpRpr\mllo.o



D.. 17              Polentiallmprvzv±ment of Town Revenues
The Government of Belize has recently resolved to hand down to Town Boards the
responsibility for the preparation of property tax rolls for their areas of jurisdiction and
has commenced a trainng programme for town personnel whom the Boards have
designated as their future valuers.
There appear to be trwo purposes for this transfer of functions. One is to make Boards
more responsible for their own affairs. The other is to overcome the problem of
keeping propem assessments up to date. Shortcomings of the existing system have
been that
*   there have been no revisions of propertv values to reflect market values between
the statutory quinquennial reviews
*   valuation rolls have not been regularly updated to take account of new properties
or the demolition of existing properties
*   the existing system has not been free from interference by politicians.
Officers of some Town Boards are optimistic that the new system wiL improve their
property revenue system and this may be so, but there are a number of potential
hazards, the outcomes of which are not yet known. These include:
-   a very limited training programme for the designated valuers which may result in
unreliable valuations and valuers lacking confidence to defend their assessments
*   the practice of some Boards of designating the existing tax collectors as valuers
without recruiting replacement collectors, thereby understaffing the collection
system
*   there is no guarantee that the new valuers will be insulated from the same kind of
political interference as has been experienced in the existing system.
The new system is planned to come into effect in year 2000 and to be fully operational
in 2001.
Quite apart from improvements of the property tax income by the updating of
valuation rolls, a considerable improvement in income could be achieved by a more
effective tax collection system. Actual collections expressed as percentages of potential
D-o N. 0 F, 0 Dae Me 1999 21



vield are in most cases barely more than half their potential, and in some cases are less
than thev were in 1995.
Table D.13      Actual property revenue as a percentage of potential
Town          B         C         D    OW    SI/SE   PG
1995       65.9      95.03     27.95    30.06    34.53
1998       52.47    80.49      53.74    57.34    58.13
Derzved
Furthermore, the propert tax which is the only directly levied tax on residents
amounts to less than BzS20 per capita per annum in all towns. Given that a basic
labourer's wage is about BzS100 per week and an average household size of five
persons, property tax per household currently amounts to Bz$100 per year, or BzS2
per week. An increase to BZS4 per week should be affordable and would double
property tax revenue even without an improved collection system.
D.S.12              Summagy Conclusions
Town Boards are seriously under resourced from local revenues. Direct and indirect
revenue in 1998/9 from all local sources per capita per annum ranges from Bz$9.18 to
Bz550.87. Furthermore, in all recorded cases except Orange Walk the total yield per
capita was considerably less than the yield in 1985. Orange Walk, starting from a low
per capita yield in 1985 achieved a 58 per cent increase in total local revenue, but
remained well within the range band of per capita per annum yields of other towns.
Government subventions improved the financial position of most towns and brought
their per capita per annum revenue within the BzS60-80 band. Benque Viejo however
is an exception. It is the only town for which data are available where the subvention
has remained unchanged since 1995. This has resulted in it having roughly less than
half the capita per annum income of any other town.
Doc NoO Rrv OD Datt M* 9I    22
VI



However, the solution to under resourcing lies mainlv in the hands of the Town Board.
If the percentage of potential propem tax collected is raised in all towns to the level of
80 % achieved in Corozal the position of all towns would be much improved.
Table D.14      Additional property tax revenue resulting from 8/% of
potential
Town           B        C        D       OW      SI/SE    PG
Potential Yield    50,171  185,800  250,392  363,738  266,023
Current Yield      26,328  176,574  134,567  208,569  154,661
% Short of 80%       26%       Nil    27%       23°/0    22%
Additional revenue   13,044    Nil  67,605   83,659   58,523
Denved
The resulting additional yield would provide sufficient additional revenue for Dangriga,
Orange Walk, and San Ignacio to meet additional costs of increased staff numbers and
skills and to begin to build up a working reserve to obviate cash flow problems and a
capital account for renewal of equipment. Corozal is already collecting 80% of its
property tax potential and should be able to make the provisions as are proposed for
the three towns which could substantially increase their property revenue. Benque is in
such an abnormal position that some special arrangement appears to be necessary.
Punta Gorda has not provided sufficient data for a prognosis to be made.
It does however appear that for most towns there is a need to review their financial
management svstems in order to improve performance.
For recommended action see Project Package 3.
Do- N. R 0 D,. May 1999   23



PROJECT PACKAGE 1: DRAINAGE MAINTENANCE
PP1.1   The drainage systems in the six towns of Belize are less effective than they
should be in removing surface water from the town areas due to the inadequate
clearance of vegetation and silt, and to the accumulation of solid waste in the drainage
channels.
PP 1.2   It is proposed that in each town the current maintenance arrangements
should be reviewed and a maintenance system should be set up which would include:
the preparation of a map of the drainage system
e   schedule of the drains and their characteristics
*   the institution of an annual drainage maintenance programme
*   the preparation and implementation of a good practice manual for drainage
maintenance
*   a manpower plan for the procurement and deplovment of labour.
PP1.3   In addition the operations for solid waste collection and street cleaning
should be evaluated in conjunction with the proposed drainage maintenance system, to
ensure that nothing in either of these operations adversely affects the drainage system.
PP 1.4   Each Town Board will nominate or appoint a member of its staff as its
drainage supervisor who will be trained in drainage maintenance.
PP 1.5   The Town Boards will also need to make arrangements for the regular
replacement of trucks and other equipment at the end of their economic usefulness.
This matter is referred to in Project Package 3, sections 3.3. and 3.4.
3c c :0   .0  at:M  1|5 24
\ \57DONE:RJ \  Os \e Exv=om«i      rNroe cs  cb up\wpot\Fm!_Novc)



PROJECT PACKAGE 2 - ELIMINATION OF HAZARDS TO DRAINAGE
Development Planning
PP1.1 The current procedures for preparing land for urban development have
resulted in road layouts which:
*   do not take adequate account of land form and resulting natural drainage pattems
*   in some cases leave insufficient space for the economical provision of road side
drains
*   give rise to problems of road alignment and other matters lving outside the scope
of this project.
PP2.2 It is proposed that the system and principles for the preparation of urban
layouts should be reviewed with particular regard to:
*   the basis upon which land is selected for urban development
*   the principles and procedures applied for the preparation of a development plan
*   the legal, technical and personnel competences of the agencies involved in plan
preparation with particular regard to the Land Utilisation Authority
*   the powers, procedures and agencies responsible for the implementation of such
plans
the role of Town Boards in the preparation of development plans for land within
their areas and for land outside town boundaries which are likely to be
incorporated within the town at a later date.
PP2.3 Thereafter to prepare a system and procedures which would ensure the
preparation of realistic schemes and effective implementation in the future.
Doc N, 0C D.o, Mr y I  25
U \S NDDN_ AYA \ VOL '\ 51,on,~ \:ErDGAn  :oeu\tbp\ ot\FNo.c



Development Control
PP2.4    Within areas already serviced by roads, individual plot holders can cause
serious damage to the existing drainage system bv:
*    filling in drainage channels which bisect their plots
*   erecting buildings over drains so that they cannot be accessed for cleaning and
maintenance
*   raising the level of their plot and thereby adversely affecting drains on their
boundary or on adjacent plots
*   constructing access ways across a drain without providing sufficient culvert space
to allow a free flow of water.
PP2.5   It is proposed that to ensure an effective method of development control:
*    a review is made of such relevant regulations as do exist and the means by which
they are, or should be, implemented
*    the preparation of an effective set of regulations to prevent plot holders and/or
others from adversely affecting the drainage system
*    designating appropriate authorities to exercise control and vesting them with
appropriate powers.
Pilot Project
PP2.6   It is proposed to develop and test the envisaged plarming and control
measures as a pilot project on land between Orange Walk town and the proposed by
pass road route or on some other location, if more appropriate.
Do N.O R F-O Dau: MyfIM  26
\\SDON E;ARA\VOL4\NVe\Emsonsncoult\Pwonecu\ibxp\RgPott\Fma!_24oT.do



PROJECT PACKAGE 3: FINANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Property Taxation
PP3.1    The Government of Belize has transferred to Town Boards the
responsibility for the valuation of property for taxation purposes so that valuation and
tax collection will be wholly a Town Board activitv. Section 5 of this report indicates
that most towns are collecting little more than half of their propertv tax revenue and in
some cases it shows a downward trend over recent vears.
PP3.2   Town Boards are in need of additional resources to cover the costs of
improved drainage maintenance, proposed development regulation and enhanced
staffing standards. It is therefore proposed that the property taxation system be
reviewed in each town to:
*   discover whether revaluations will be completed by the due date
*   to assess the capacity of the collection system to achieve an income of at least 80
per cent of potential yield
r the capacity of newly appointed valuers to justify their new valuations when
challenged
*   devise such remedial measures as may be necessarv to achieve the required level
of revenue.
Capital Accumulation
PP3.3    Town Boards have been unable to build up capital reserves due to the low
level of local revenue from property tax and local resources. This has meant that they
have run into cash flow difficulties due to a lack of working capital. Similarly, they
have been unable to build up a capital reserve for the acquisition of trucks and other
equipment which is in need of replacement.
PP3.4   It is therefore proposed to:
*   assess the size of capital reserves necessary for adequate working capital and
equipment replacement
*   estimate the revenue requirement necessary to achieve the necessary reserves
DO: N. C )X, C D., My 199S 27
\ \ SNz^D0NLAW>OL4\W\NV Ezntoo,n,, nei\Poet tbx\eotEtu_o.o



*   recommend the sources and scale of additional revenue required if this cannot be
achieved through the improved propem taxation svstem.
Management
PP3.5 Most towns in Belize are growing in size and all are growing in the number
and scale of services which they are providing or will need to provide in the future.
Administration is therefore becoming more complex and the need to improve
management capacitv has been identified in this report in respect of
*   drainage maintenance
*   the supervision of pnivatised sanitation services
*   the management of urban development
*   the collection of revenues
•   general financial management.
PP3.6   It is proposed that a review of management systems in each town be made
and recommendations be prepared to achieve greater effectiveness
Dc N.O O B- O Da. ME7 1999   28
\ \SWINDON  AA\VOL4\a/.\Enor,unntL matPot\l=pRrotF>_o.



E        Construction Issues



I             I



Table El Estimation of traffic movements per sub-project for Corozal
Sub-project           1       21   31      4     5      6      7       8       9 Total
_________            ___    ___    ___                   ____          I~~~~~~~~~~~~  SW   Magoon  Drain
Quantity material       _                                                                      2 SW Magoon Drain Ext.
Excavation (m3)    4775   2602  2198   2300   900  6500   900    250              20425        3 San Andres Road Drain
Blockwork (No.)                127070  48000 21780                  1023          97873        4 Santa Rita Road Drain
Concrete (m3)       650      50   500   1500   900   900    30        60           4590        5 College Road Drain
Reinforcement (t)    80       5   70   225    75   120         7      25            607        6 NE Magoon Drain
Dredgings    __ _                          _                                5000   5000        7 NE Magoon Drain Ext.
8 3rd Street North Drain
No. of lorries                                                                                 9 Dredging to ouffalls
Excavation        1432.5  780.6 659.4  690.0  270.0 1950.0  270.0   75.0    0.0  6127.5
Blockwork            0.0    0.0  98.4  174.5  79.2   0.0   0.0    3.7    0.0  355.9
Concrete           216.7   16.71 166.7  500.0  300.0  300.0  10.0   20.0    0.0  1530.0
Reinforcement       16.0    1.0  14.0  45.0  15.0  24.0   1.4    5.0    0.0  121.4
iJredgings       __                        _                     __       1250.0  1250.0
Total No. of
lorries per sub-
project           1665.2  798.3 938.5 1409.5  664.2 2274.0  281.4  103.7  1250.0  9384.8
Estimated_
construction
period (weeks)       18      10   15.  30    20    18    10           18   ?         60
Estimated No.
lorries per day
(average)           18.51( 6.0  12.5    9.4   6.6  25.3   5.6    1.2   7            28.4
Assumptions:
Excavated material - average lorry takes 8 m3 per load (plus 20% expansion)
Concrete - average lorry takes 6 m3
Blocks - Average lorry takes 550 blocks per load
Reinforcernent - average lorry takes 10t per load
Dredgings - average lorry takes 8 m3 per load



I                                          I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I



Table ES Estimation of traffic movements per sub-project for Dangriga
Sub-project          1      2     3      4      5     6      7      8     9      10     11 Total
Quantity material        ___              _             _
Excavation (m3)    4100  7000  3620 17525  10271  8471  9525   1500   950             5000    67962
Blockwork (No.)                                                  3000  19200                   22200
Concrete (m3)     1000  1610   600   100       30    60    40   1100   700      60              530
Reinforcement (t)   95   100    50    20        5    10      7    150    80      12              529
Fill (m3)          270  340-0           6171        175                                        10016
Timber (t)         -     -            -                     20                                    20
No. lorries
Excavation       1230.0 2100.0 1086.0 5257.5 3081.3 2541.3 2857.5  450.0  285.0    0.0 1500.0   20388.6
Blockwork           0.0  _ 0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   10.9  69.8    0.0    0.0        80.7
Concrete          333.3 536.7  200.0  33.3  10.0  20.0  13.  366.7  233.3  20.0    0.0    1766.7
Reinforcement      19.0  20.0  10.0   4.0    1.0   2.0   1.4  30.0  16.0    2.4    0.0C    105.8
Fill               67.5 850.0   0.0 1542.8    0.0  43.8   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   2504.0
Timber                                                    10.0                                  10.0
Total No. lorries…-
per sub-proJect   1582.3 2656.7 1296.0 5294.8 3092.3 2563.3 2882.2  857.6  604.2   22.4 1500.0   22351.8
stimated
construction
period (weeks)     36.0  48.0  26.0  82.0   20.0  26.0  20.0  36.0  36.0   34.0   ?            364.0
Estimated No.
lorries per day
(average)           8.8  11.1  10.0  12.9   30.9  19.7  28.8    4.8   3.4   0.1   ?             39.1
Assumptions:                                                               I Sabal Street Canal         7 John Creek Canal
Excavated material - average lorry takes 8m3 per load (plus 20% expansion)  2 Havanah Creek Canal       8 St Vincent Street Drain
Concrete - average lorry takes 6m3 per load                                3 Abogaldes Street Canal     9 Commerce Street Drain
Blocks - Average lorry takes 550 blocks per load                          4 Lakeland Canal             10 Sluice Gates
Reinforcement - average lorry takes 10t per load                           5 Melinda Road Canal        II Dredging to outfalls
Fill - average lorry takes 8m3 per load                                    6 Penn Street Canal
Footbridge - requires 20t approx timber - average lorry takes 4t timber



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                             I



Table E4 IEstimation of traffic movements per sub-project for Benque
Sub-project            1        2        3         4 Total
Quantity material
Excavation (m3)     1564      602      450       100    2716
Blockwork(No.)     11740     1200      9000    2000    23940
Concrete (m3)        234      240       180       30      684
Reinforcement (t)     10       20        15        4       49
Fill (m3)           1000                                 1000
No. lorries                                                 0
Excavation          469.2    180.6    135.0     30.0    814.8
Blockwork            42.7      4.4     32.7      7.3     87.1
Concrete             78.0     80.0     60.0     10.0    228.0
Reinforcement         2.0      4.0      3.0      0.8      9.8
Fill                250.0 _                             250.0
Total No. lorries
per sub-project     591.9    269.0    230.7    48.1   1139.7
Estimated
construction
period (weeks)       32.0     20.0     20.0     10.0     82.0
r-stmea NO._
lorries per day
(average,j            3.7      2.7      2.3      1.0      2.8
Assumptions:
Excavated material - average lorry takes 8m3 per load (plus 20% expansion)
Concrete - average lorry takes 6m3 per load
Blocks - Average lorry takes 550 blocks per load
Reinforcement - average lorry takes 10t per load
Fill - average lorry takes 8m3 per load
I Central Main Drain
2 Liberty Street Drain
3 George Street Drain
4 Wyatt Street Drain



I                                     I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      



Table E2 Estimation of traffic movements per sub-project for Orange Walk
Sub-project             1       2*        3         4 Total
Quantity material
Excavation (m3)      2649                60       850     3559
Blockwork (No.)     26000                                26000
Concrete (m3)         350                20        30      400
Reinforcement (t)      30                 7         5       42
Fill (m3)                                30                 30
No. lorries
Excavation          794.7       0.0     18.0    255.0   1067.7
Blockwork            94.5       0.0      0.0      0.0     94.5
Concrete            116.7       0.0      6.7     10.0    133.3
Reinforce.ment        6.0       0.0      1.4      1.0      8.4
Fill                  0.0       0.0      7.5      0.0      7.5
Total No. lorries
per sub-project    1011.9       0.0     26.1    266.0   1304.0
Estimated
construction
period (weeks)         52                20        26       52
Estimated No.
lorries per day
(average__              4                  0        2        5
Assumptions:
Excavated material - average lorry takes 8m3 per load (pus 20% expansion)
Concrete - average lorry takes 6m3 per load
Blocks - Average lorry takes 550 blocks per load
Reinforcement - average lorry takes 1 Ot per load
Fill - average lorry takes 8m3 per load
* Sub-coritract 2 (Ziricotte Street has not been included in this assessment as the works
are no longer part of the Scope of Works)
I Dunn Street Drain
2 Zericote Street Drain
3 San Lorenzo Road Culvert
4 Tangerine StreetlCraboo Street Drain



I                        I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I



Table E6 Estimation of traffic movements per sub-project for Punta Gorda
Sub-project    -           1         2        3 Total
Quantity material
Excavationi (m3)        1391    16350              17741
Blockwork (No.)         9140                        9140
Concrete (m3)            266       150      .        416
Reinforcement (t)         10        33                43
Dredgings (m3)                             1500      1500
No. lorries          _
Excavation             417.3   4905.0        0.0   5322.3
Blockwork               33.2       0.0       0.0     33.2
Concrete                88.7      50.0      0.0    138.7
Reinforcement            2.0       6.6      0.0       8.6
Dredgings                0.0       0.0    375.0    375.0
Total No. lorries per
sub-project            541.2   4961.6    375.0   5877.8
Estimated
construction period
(weeks)                 30.0      42.0    ?          60.0
Estimated No. lorries
per day (average)         3.6     23.6    ?          17.8
Assumptions:
Excavatedl material - average lorry takes 8m3 per load (plus 20% expansion)
Concrete - average lony takes 6m3 per load
Blocks - Average lorry takes 550 blocks per load
Reinforcernent - average lorry takes 1Ot per load
Dredgings - average lorry takes 8m3 per load
1 NE Magoon Drain
2 SW Magoon Drain
3 Dredging to outfall



I~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



table E3 Estimation of traffic movements per sub-project for San IgnaciolSanta Elena
Bub-prqjeA_            1        2        3        4        5        6 Total
;uantity material                                     _                  __
Excavation (m3)      626      720      242     2985    4748                9321
3iockwork (No.)     7590     8640       86              13830             30146
-oncrete (!n3)       160      225       30       150      930              1495
Reinforcerment (t)    15       15        10       25      180               245
aabions (no)                                                       200      200
tio. lorries;          . 
Excavation          187.8   216.0      72.6    895.5   1424.4      0.0   2796.3
Blockwork            27.6     31.4      0.3      0.0     50.3      0.0    109.6
Concrete             53.3    75.0      10.0    50.0    310.0       0.0    498.3
Reinforcernent        3.0      3.0      2.0      5.0     36.0      0.0     49.0
Gabions  -_40.0                                                            40.0
Total No. lorries
per sub-project     271.7    325.4     84.9    950.5   1820.7     40.0   3493.3
Estimatecd
construction
period (weeks)        24   24   ?                 42   48        ?           60
Estimated No.
lorries per day
(average)              2    3                      5    8        ?           11
Assumptions:
Excavated material - average lorry takes 8m3 per load (plus 20% expansion)
Concrete - average lorry takes 6m3 per load
Blocks - Average lorry takes 550 blocks per load
Reinforcement - average lorry takes 1Ot per load
Gabions - average lorry takes I0No. per load.
1 Salazar Street Drain
2 George Price Avenue Drain
3 Outfall
4 John Martinez Road Drain
5 Savannah Strset Drain
'6 Outfall



I                                              I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I



F        Environmental Clauses for the
Construction Contract



I                      I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I



Good House Keeping Clauses
Possession of Site   I    The Site comprises the streets. sidewalks. canals and coastal areas where the
Works are to be executed. The Site does not include any privately owned land or
structures. In amplification of Clause xxx of the Conditions of Contract and Section
xxx of the Contract documents. possession of the Site will be granted to the
Contractor m Sections by the Engineer in writing on behalf of the Employer in
accordance with the Contractoi's programnme referred to in Clause xDxx of the
Conditions of Contract. This programme shall conform to the constraints listed in
Clause xxx herein.
Construction         2    The Contractor shall programrne the execution of the Works so as to miinimise
Sequencing           disturbance to the people, commerce and administration of xxx name of town xx.
The order in which the works may be executed shall be subject to the following
constraints:
i)       The construction of the Works shall be carried out so that only one
length of any street between adjacent junctions (one block) is being
worked on at any one time and shall not involve working in
adjacent or intersecting streets simultaneously.
ii)      Works to Canal bndges shall be carried out so that only one road
bridge across any canal is out of service at any time.
iii)     The requirements of Clause xxx herein in respect of traffic
management during construction.
Existing Services    3    (1)       The Contractor shall be responsible for ascertaining the location of
existing services including electricity. telecommnunications, water. foul sewerage and
surface water drainage and ensuring that they are not damaged or interrupted by the
construction of the Works. Where the diversion of such services is necessary to
permit the construction of the Works the procedures described hereunder shall be
followed.
(2)      The Contractor shall arrange for any alterations to electrical
installations belonging to Belize Electricity Limited (BEL) to be carried out by BEL.
The Contractor shall allow a period of 2 months between acceptance of the
Contractor's instructions by BEL and the completion of the necessary work by BEL.
(3)      The  Contractor  shall  arrange  for  any  alterations  to
telecommunications installations belonging to Belize Teleconmmunications Limnited
(BTL) to be carried out by BTL. The Contractor shall allow a period of 2 months
between acceptance of the Contractor's instructions by BTL and the completion of the
necessary work by BTL.
Medical              4    (1)       The Contractor shall make arrangements for treatment on the Site
Arrangements         of casualties and sick persons in first-aid units or in such other wards as may be
necessary in accordance with the appropriate Regulations.
(2)      Notwithstanding the minimnum requirements prescribed above, the
Contractor shall be responsible for the adequacy of all the arrangements made.
Sanitation           5    (1)       The Contractor is to arrange for a standard of sanitation required by
local Regulations to be maintained throughout the Works. Sanitary conveniences for
the use of persons employed in the Works shall be provided and maintained by the
Contractor in accordance with the appropriate Regulations to the extent and in such a
manner and at such places as may be approved by the Engineer, and all persons
connected with the Works shall be obliged to use them.



Interference with    6    The Contractor shall not interfere in any way with any existing works w6hether
Existing Works       the property of the Employer or of a third party and whether the position of such
Works is indicated to the Contractor by the Engineer or noL except where such
interference is specificall, described as part of the Works either in the Contract or in
the Engineer's instructions.
Abatement of         7    (1)       The Contractor shalL adopt such measures as the Engineer may
Nuisance             consider reasonable and necessary to minimise nuisance from dust. noise. or other
cause.
(2)      The Contractor shall observe all agreements entered into by the
Employer with any person or persons relating to occupation of the properties by the
Employer and to the execution of the Works thereon. The Contractor wAill be given on
request copies of an) agreement or part thereof relating to such matters.
Access to Works      8    All necessarv facilities will be given by the Emplover for the access of the
Contractor's employees to the Works and the Contractor shall be responsible for
seeing that such employees obey all regulations in regard to the conditions of access
to the Works.
Water Supply         9    The Contractor shall provide an adequate supply of safe drinking water on the
Site. The quality, number. capacitv and location of the installations shall be to the
satisfaction of the Engineer, and conform wlth the requirements of the appropriate
local authorities.
Diversion of Traffic   10   (1)     The Contractor shall be responsible for providing, maintaining and
removing. at his own cost, adequate diversions to existing roads, and access tracks
interfered with during the execution of the Works, together with any additional
policing and signposting. and the erection of barriers.
(2)      Approval of the Contractor's proposals for such diversions must be
obtained through the Engineer in advance of any work on them being carned out.
Removal of           I I   The Contractor shall remove unsuitable material to the depths as ordered or
Unsuitable Material    agreed by the Engineer and shall dispose of it in the Municipal Waste Disposal Site
operated by the Town Board or in other spoil tips approved by the Engineer.
Compensation Water   12   (1)       The Contractor shall ensure that during the construction of dams,
and Flow Past        barrages and other structures across rivers and existing channels and up to. the time of
Structures           completion of the relevant parts of the Works, the whole flow of the rivers or
channels shall be allowed to pass the Works except for such quantitv as the
Contractor may reasonably require for the execution of the Works, unless otherwise
directed by the Engineer.
(2)      After completion of those parts of the Works or Temporary Works
which form a barrier to river or channel, the Contractor will be required by the
Employer to pass such quantities of water into the river or channel downstream of the
structures as nay be directed. The Contractor shall not alter the rate of flow of such
w ater except with the approval of the Engineer.
Restoration of Drains,  13   Subject to any requirement of the Works whereby a permanent change is to be
Streams. Canals etc    effected, all drains, canals, pipes, channels, water-courses or streams temporarilv cut
through or disturbed by the excavation of the Works are to be restored so that the
water flowing in them may continue to flow in as full and free manner as it did before
the disturbances.
Excavation General    13   (1)       The safety and securitv of all excavations either surface or
underground shall at all times during the execution of the Contract be the sole
responsibility of the Contractor. The Contractor shall implement and be responsible
for such measures, including supporting, staunching, dewatering and consolidating as



may be necessary to fulfil this responsibility. The Contractor will be permitted.
subject to the approval of the Engineer. to adjust side slopes of excavations in soft
material wuhich are to remain open temporarily in preference to shoring or strutting.
Roads Other than      14   Where existing roads other than the specified work areas are used by the
Specified Work Areas  Contractor for the transport of materials or the movement of his equipment and plant
he shall take particular care to avoid damnage to or contamination of the existing road
surface. An! such damage or contamination caused by the Contractor shall be
rectified to the satisfaction of the Engineer at the Contractor's expense.
This clause is particularly applicable to roads used bY the Contractor for the haulage
of borrow material. structural fill material. sub-basecourse. basecourse or sealing
chips from the nominated quarries or other approved sources. For these roads the
Contractor shall make any necessary improvements to provide an adequate level of
service for the Contractor's use as well as use by the public at large as will be
determined from time to time by the Engineer. He shall regularly maintam the road
surface by maintenance grading at least fortnightly on average and shall periodically
regravel sections of the road as may be necessary to proNide an adequate level of
service.
During dry conditions the Contractor shall provide and use a water cart filled with an
approved spray bar to maintain any gravel road used for the haulage of aggregates. in
a continuously damp condition where such road passes within one hundred (100)
metres of any house or village.
Work on Private       15   Where work is to be carried out on private property - whether detailed on the
Propert               Drawings or directed by the Engineer, such work shall only be undertaken on receipt
of the Engineer's written direction to proceed with that work. Such direction shall
define the area of private property within which the works are to be carried out.
All work on private property shall be carried out with the object of minimising
inconvenience to the owner. Such work shall be carried out quickly and neatly and
restored to a standard acceptable to the Engineer as soon as is practicable.
Should the Contractor interfere with any property other than that provided for under
this Clause, the cost of restoring such property to the Engineer's approval shall be
borne by the Contractor alone.
Maintaing Traffic     16   (1)        Within the specified limits of the Works and all quarry access
Flowu Watching and    Toads, the Contractor shall ensure that the roadway is kept open and passable by
Lighting              traffic at all times in accordance with the following requirement:
i)        A minimum road width of 3.00 metres (10.0 ft) shall be trafficable
at all times along the entire length of the highway.
ii)      The length of any section where the trafficable width is less than 5.5
metres (18.Oft) shall be restricted to 500 metres (1640 ft) maximum,
and shall adjoin sections having a traflicable width of at least 5.5
metres for a distance of at least 500 metres either end.
iii)     During hours of darkness, or when the Works are left unattended by
the Contractor, a minimum road width of 3 metres (18.Oft) shall be
trafficable along the entire length of any section of the highway.
The Contractor may be perrnitted to construct temporary by-pass
roads only upon direct approval of the Engineer. Such by-passes
shall be of 3.00 metres minimum width and 500.00 metres
maximum length. Thev shall comply with this clause in all respects
and be maintained in a safe and stable condition at all times to the
Engineers sausfactioon, notwithstanding which the Contractor shall



remain responsible for the safety of the Works. the public and his
workmen as defined elsewhere in the contract.
(2)       Barricades. warning signs. cones and red warning lights during
hours of darkness shall be maintained throughout any length of the road rehabilitation
under construction to control traffic speeds and to protect fully. and divert as
necessary. passing traffic.
(3)       Where the Works reduces the trafficable width of a section of the
road to less than 5.50 metres (18.Oft). the Contractor shall station watchmen at each
end of that section to direct the flow of traffic in a single lane over that section.
Watchmen shall be equipped with approval hand-held "STOP/SLOW" signs to
control and co-ordinate the traffic flow in one direction at a time over the section of
reduced trafficable uidth. If the watchmen at either end of the section are not in
continuous visual contact, they shall be equipped with portable batter\ operated
radios to maintain continuous communication between each end of the section.
(4)       During hours of darkness, and at all times that the Works are left
unattended by the Contractor, lights, barricades and warning signs shall be provided
on any plant or equipment items. anv materials or anv excavation which may offer
obstruction to traffic.
(5)       When the necessity for barricades and/or warning notices no longer
exists, all such barricades and/or notices shall be immediately removed.
(6)       The Contractor shall erect a sign measuring 2 metres x 1.5 metres at
each end of the works advising the public at large of the works, the name and 24 hour
contact phone number of the Contractor, the name of the Employer and the name of
the Engineer. All sign writing shall be in white reflectorised paint on a green
background.
Road Closing -        17   Prior to closing a length of highway or any part thereof the Contractor shall
Through Traffic       provide the Engineer with three weeks' written notice of his intention to seek
approval for such closure. The Engineer will arrange with the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Works to advertise publicly a notice of closure from the Engineer. Should
such approval be given, the Contractor shall personally notify all affected property
residents at least two days prior to the closure and of the time and day of removal of
the closure.
Access to Adjoining    18   The Contractor shall ensure that access to all commercial and industrial
Properties            properties adjoining the road rehabilitation is provided at all times. Where vehicular
access to any adjoining propertY is to be temporarily disrupted foT essential work on
the vehicular entrance, the Contractor shall notify the property owner/occupier 48
hours in advance of the time and duration of the closure of such access. No such
closure shaL exceed ten hours in duration, nor be permitted during hours of darkness.
Co-operation with the  19   The Contractor shall so plan and execute the Works of this Contract that
Emplover              interference with any activities carried out by the Employer or his agents adjacent to
the Contractor's work areas is kept to an absolute minimum and aD reasonable
requests by the Employer to that end are met
Landscape             20   The Contractor shall exercise care to preserve the natural landscape and shall
Preservation          conduct construction operations so as to prevent any unnecessary destruction,
scarring. or defacing of the natural surroundings in the vicinity of the work. Except
where clearing is required for permanent works, approved construction roads, or
excavation operations, all trees, native shrubbery, and vegetation shall be preserved
and shall be protected from damage by the Contractor's construction operations and
equipment. The edges of clearings and cuts through trees, shrubbery, and vegetation
shall be irregularly shaped to soften the undesirable visual impact of straight lines.
Movement of labour and equipment within the right-of-way and over routes provided



for access to the work shall be performed in a manner to prevent damage to grazing
land. crops. or property.
On compleuion of the work. all work areas not seeded shall be scarified and left in a
condition which uill facilitate natural revegetation. provide for proper drainage. and
prevent erosion. All unnecessary destruction, scarring. damage. or defacing of the
landscape resulting from the Contractors operations shall be repaired. replanted.
reseeded or otheruise corrected as directed by the Engineer. and at the Contractors
expense.
In addition to any requirements of local regulations. the Contractor shall adopt
precautions when using explosives which will prevent scattering of rocks. stumps. or
other debris outside the work area, and prevent damage to surrounding trees.
shrubbery and vegetation.
Presenration of Trees   21   (1)      Preservation: AlB trees and shrubbery which are not specifically
and Shrubberv        required to be cleared or removed for construction purposes shall be preserved and
shall be protected from  any damage that may be caused by the Contractor's
construction operations and equipment. Special care shall be exercised where trees or
shrubs are exposed to injuries by construction equipmenL blasting, excavating.
dumping. chemical damage, or other operations: and the Contractor shall adequately
protect such trees by use of protective barriers or other methods approved by the
Engineer. The removal of trees or shrubs will be permitted only after pnor approval
by the Engineer.
The layout of the Contractor's construction facilities such as workshops, warehouses,
storage areas, and parking areas: location of access and haul routes; and operation in
borrow and spoil areas shall be planned and conducted in such manner that all trees
and shrubbery not approved for removal by the Engineer shall be presenred and
adequately protected from either direct or indirect damage by the Contractor's
operations.
Except in emergency cases or when otherwise approved by the Engineer, trees shall
not be used for anchorages. Where such use is approved, the trunk shall be wrapped
with a sufficient thickness of approved protective material before any rope. cable, or
uire is placed.
(2)       Repair or Treatment of Damage: The  Contractor shall be
responsible for injuries to trees and shrubs caused by his operations. The term
"injury" shall include. without limnitation, bruising, scarring. tearing, and breaking of
roots, trunk or branches. All iinjured trees and shrubs shall be repaired or treated
without delay, at the Contractor's expense. If damage occurs, the Engineer will
determiine the method of repair or treatment to be used for injured trees and shrubs as
recommended by an experienced horticulturist or a licensed tree surgeon provided by
and at the expense of the Contractor. All repairs or treatment of injured trees shall be
performed under the direction of an experienced horticulturist or a licensed tree
surgeon provided by and at the expense of the Contractor.
(3)       Replacement: Trees or shrubs that, in the opinion of the Engineer,
are beyond saving shall be removed and replaced early in the next plantng season.
The replacements shall be the same species, or other approved species, and of the
maximum size that is practicable to plant and sustain growth in the particular
environment. Replacement trees and shrubs shall be stayed, watered, and maintained
for a period of one year. Any replacement tree or shrub that dies shall be removed and
replaced, as directed by the Engineer, with such replacements being maintained for a
period of one year from the date of replacement
Prevention of Water   22   (1)        General: The Contractor's construction activities shall be performed
Pollution             by methods that will prevent entrance, or accidental spillage of solid matter.
contaminants. debris and other pollutants and wastes into streams, flowing or dry



watercourses. lakes and underground water sources. Such pollutants and wastes
include. but are not restricted to. refuse. garbage. cement. concrete. sanitary wastes.
industnial waste. radioactve substances. oil and other petroleum products. aggregate
processing tailings. nineral salts and thermal pollution.
Dewatering work for structure foundations or earthwork operations adjacent to. or
encroaching on. streams or uatercourses shall be conducted in a manner to prevent
muddy water and eroded materials from entering the streams or watercourses b!
construction of intercepting ditches. bypass channels. barriers. settling ponds. or by
other approved means. Excavated materials or other construction materials shall not
be stockpiled or deposited near or on stream  banks, lake shorelines, or other
watercourse perimeters where they can be washed away by high water or storm
runoff or can in any uwy encroach upon the watercourse itself.
Turbidity increases in a stream or other bodies of water that are caused by
construction activities shall be strictly controlled. When necessary to perform
required construction work in a stream channel. the turbidity may be increased. as
approved by the Engineer, for the shortest practicable period required to complete
such work. This required construction work mnay include such work as diversion of a
stream, construction or removal of cofferdams. specified earthwork in or adjacent to a
stream channel. pile driving. and construction of turbidity control structures.
Mechanised equipment shall not be operating in flowing water except as necessary to
construct crossings or to perform the required construction.
Wastewaters from aggregate processing, concrete batching or other construction
operations shall not enter streams, watercourses, or other surface waters without the
use of such turbidity control methods as settling ponds, gravel-filter entrapment dikes.
approved flocculating processes that are not harmful to fish. recirculation systems for
washing of aggregates, or other approved methods. Any such wastewaters discharged
into surface waters shall contain the least concentration of settleable material
possible. For the purpose of these specifications. settleable material is defined as that
material which will settle from  the water by gravity during a 1-hour quiescent
detention period
(2)       Compliance with Laws and Regulations: The Contractor shall
comply. with all applicable Belizean laws. orders, reguiations. and water quality
standards concerning the control and abatement of water pollution.
Abatement of Air      23   The Contractor shall comply with applicable Belizean laws and regulations
Pollution             concerrning the prevention and control of air pollution.
Notwithstanding the above in conduct of construction activities and operation of
equipmenL the Conractor shall utilise such practicable methods and devices as are
reasonably available to control. prevent, and otherwise minirnise atmospheric
emissions or discharges of air contaminants.
The emission of dust into the atmosphere shall be strictly controlled during the
manufacture, handling. and storage of concrete and road aggregates, and the
Contractor shall use such methods and equipment as are necessary for the collection
and disposal, or prevention, of dust during these operations. The Contractor's methods
of storing and handling cement and pozzolans shall also include means of eliminating
atmospheric discharges of dust.
Equipment and vehicles that shown excessive emissions of exhaust gases due to poor
engine adjustments. or other inefficient operating conditions, shall not be operated
until corrective repairs or adjustments are made.
Burning of matertals will not be permitted. In lieu of burning, such combustible
matenals may be disposed of by other methods as provided in Clause 30 hereof.



Dust Abatement       24   During the performance of the work required by these specifications or anm
operations appurtenant thereto. whether on right-of-way provided by the Employer or
elsewhere, the Contractor furnish all the labour. equipment. materials and means
required and shall carry out proper and efficient measures wherever and as often as
necessary to reduce the dust nuisance. and to prevent dust which has origimated from
his operations from damaging crops. orchards, cultivated fields. and dwellings, or
causing a nuisance to persons. The Contractor will be held liable for any darnage
resulting from dust originating from his operations under these specifications on the
right-of-way or elsewhere. The Engineer may direct sprinkling or other measures for
dust abatement if necessary to obtan adequate control.
Noise Abatement      25   The Contractor shall comply with applicable Belizean laws. orders, and
regulations concerning the prevention. control, and abatement of excessive noise.
The Contractor shall ensure that the correct equipment is selected for each job in
order to minimise noise intrusion. All machinery and equipment shall be well
maintained and silenced equal to or better than originally supplied when new. The
Engineer may stop the use of any item of equipment until noise emrssion levels
comply with this Clause.
Blasting. the use of jackhammers. pile driving, rock crushing. transportation of
material, earthworking and other operations producing hugh-intensit impact noise
may be performed at night only upon approval of the Engineer.
Light Abatement      26   The Contractor shall exercise special care to direct all stationary floodlights to
shine downward at an angle less than horizontal. These floodlights shall also be
shielded so as not to be a nusance to surrounding areas. No lighting shall include a
residence In its direct beam.
The Contractor shall be responsible for correcting lighting problems when thev occur
as directed by the Engineer.
Preservation of      27   The Contractor agrees that should he or any of his employees in the
Historical and       performance of this contract discover evidence of possible scientific, prehistorical, or
Archaeological Data   archaeological data he Bill notify the Engineer immediately giving the location and
nature.for the findings. Written confrmation shall be forwarded within two days. The
Contractor shall exercise care so as not to damage artifacts or fossils uncovered
during excavation operations and shall provide such cooperation and assistance as
may be necessary to preserve the findings for removal or other disposition by the
Employer.
Where appropriate by reason of a discovery, the Engineer may order delays in the
time of performance, or changes in the work, or both. If such delays, or changes, or
both, are ordered, the time of performance and contract price shall be adjusted in
accordance with the applicable clauses in the General Conditions of this Contract.
The Contractor shall also notify the Engineer in writing four weeks prior to any work
being carried out in the vicinity (ie. within a two kilometre radius) of known
archaeological sites. This time will allow the Employer to arrange inspection and
clearance by the Archaeological Commissioner pnor to work taking place.
The Contractor agrees to insert this subclause in all subcontracts which involve the
performance of work on the terrain of the site.
Pesticidies           28   Pesticides include herbicides, insecticides. fimgicides. rodenticides. piscicides,
surface disinfectants, animal repellents, and insect repellents. Should the Contractor
find it necessarv to use pesticides in work areas of this contract, he shall submit his
plan for such use to the Engineer for written approval.
The Contractor shall read and comply with all labelling requirements when using



pesticides.
Cleanup and Disposal  29   (1)         Cleanup: The Contractor shall, at all times. keep the construction
of Waste Materials    area. including storage areas used. free from accumulations of waste matenals or
rubbish.
All waste water and sewage from office, residential and mobile camps shall be piped
to soak pits or other disposal areas constructed in accordance Aith local government
regulations. and where and when such regulations require it the Contractor shall
obtain a permit or other appropriate documentation approving the disposal methods
being used.
All used fuels, oils. other plant or vehicle fluids. and old tyres and tubes shall be
collected to a central disposal poinL on a regular basis and disposed of as specified
below.
All household office, workshop. and other solid waste shall be collected to a central
disposal area, on a daily basis and disposed of in a manner approved by the Engineer.
Servicing of plant. equipment and vehicles shall whenever possible be carried out at a
workshop area. This workshop area shall be equipped with secure storage areas for
fuels, oils and other fluids constructed in such a way as to contain any spillages which
mray occur. and similar storage where used fluids can be stored securely prior to their
disposal.
When servicing of plant. equipment and vehicles is carried out away from the
workshop area it shall be done at locations and in such a manner as to avoid spillage
and contamination of streams and other drainage courses. Any spillages shall be
cleaned up by collecting the contaminated soils and disposing of them as below all to
the satisfaction of the Engineer.
Prior to completion of the work, the Contractor shall remove from the vicinity of the
work all plant facilities, buildings. rubbish, unused miaterials. concrete forms. and
other like material, belonging to him or used under his discretion during construction.
All work areas shall be graded and left in a neat manner conforming to the natural
appearance of the landscape as provided in Clause 20.
Anv residue deposited on the ground from washing out transit mix trucks or an)
similar concrete operations shall be buried or cleaned up in a manner acceptable to
the Engineer.
In the event of the Contractores failure to perform the above work, the work may be
performed by the Emplover, at the expense of the Contractor, and his surety or
sureties shall be liable therefore.
(2)       Disposal of Waste Material:
i)        General
Waste materials including, but not restricted to, refuse, garbage,
sanitary wastes, industrial wastes, and oil and other petroleum
products, shall be disposed of by the Contractor. Disposal of
combustible materials shall be by burying, where burial of such
materials is approved by the Engineer; or by removal from the
construction area. Burning shall not be permitted. Disposal of non-
combustible materials shall be by burving, where burial of such
materials is approved by the Engineer, or by removal from the
construction area. Waste materials removed from the construction
area shall be dumped at an approved dump.



ii)      Disposal of Material by Bunying
Onix materials approved bN the Engineer may be buned. Burial
shall be in pits the location, size and depth of which shall bc
approved by the Engineer. The pits shall be covered by at least 0.6
metres of earth mnaterial pnor to abandonrnent.
iii)     Disposal of Material by Removal
Material to be disposed of by removal from the construction area
shall be removed from the area prior to the completion of the work
under these specifications. All matenals removed shall become the
property of the Contractor.
Materials to be disposed of by dumping shall be hauled to an
approved dump. It shall be the responsibility of the Contractor to
make any necessarn arrangements with private parties and with
local officials pertinent to locations and regulations of such
dumping. Anv fees for charges required to be paid for dumping of
materials shall be paid by the Contractor and shall be included in
the price tendered in the Bills of Quantities for other items of work.



