E-293
VOL.2
Belize
Roads and Municipal Dainage Project
Urban Drainage Component
Environmental Assessment
1. Background
When completed, the Municipal drainage component of the proposed project would have exccuted the urban
drainage improvement works needed to evacuate surface runoff from 30 minute rainfall with a 10 year return
period, within the limits of each of the following towns: Punta Gorda, Dangriga, and Corozal on the Caribbean
coast, and the inland towns of Benque Viejo del Carmen, Sa Ignacio-Santa Elena and Orange Walk. These
works, originally proposed in the Bclize Urban Inrstructire Project (BUIP), consists of a series of investments
in the six rnajor towns of Belize intended to improve the urban environment in regards to water supply, road
development or improvement, coastal planning, urban waste management and storm drainage improvement and
other urban environmental issues. The feasibility report for the BUIP was prepared by Consultiberica-Halcrowv
in 1996, under contract with the Government of Belize.
Halcrow carried out the engineering designs for these imnprovements, the environmental impact assessment of
the proposed works (EIA) and the econonic assessment of the proposals in 1999. In addition, an independent
international consultant was contracted to (i) review of the technical, economic and environmental studies
related to the proposed drainage works; (ii) assess the adequacy of the proposed environmental management
plans vis a vis the potential enviriimental and social impacts stemming from the proposed works; and (iii)
assess compliance of proposed measures with World Bank safeguard policies specially regarding natural habitats
and cultural heritage.
This report summarises the findings of all technical and environmental reports as well as the recommendations
proposed by the independent consultant. The EA report has been submitted to the Department of Environment
(DoE) for official review and cJearance as required by Belize's environmental laws and is available in the offices
of the DoE and MoW for review by interested parties. Formal World Bank review of the report was carried out
before the appraisal by the Bank and they conform fully to Bank policy guidelines and requirements regarding
environmental and social issues. The EA report is also available in the Public Information Centre of the World
Elank in Washington.
2 Environmental and Social Setting
The proposed drainage works are those that the towns authorities could not be expected to undertake from their
own resources, both in terms of the nature and extent of the works and the capital costs involved and conform to
the recommendations of a Belize Social Investment Fund (BSIF) report, formulated in April, 1999, after a
revision of the drainage situation in the six towns.
All towns present severe inadequacies in the existing drainage systems. In general, the problems relate to
specific areas of the town, Only in Dangiga, are the problems widespread and extend throughout the majority of
the developed area of the town, In Corozal, Benque Viejo del Carmen, Dangriga and Punta Gorda the existing
primary drainage chananls are either non existent or of inadcquate capacity to convey the required drainage
flows. In San Ignacio/Santa Elena and Orange Walk the drainage problems are of a more specific nature and
occur due to local deficiencies in the drainage systems.
Several of the drainage problems in the towns occur due to inadequate planning in the now development areas.
Household plots and roads have been developed without regard to the existing natural drainage routes. In
particular, roads have been consticted without the provision of culverm to enable drainage water to be
e-vacuated. Many of the newer development areas are also on low-lying land to which runoff naturally flows.



Householders have often developed plots in these areas without any previous land fill operations to raise the plot
levcls above thc normal drainage levels.
The six towns have together an estimated population of ca. 55.000 inhabitants in 1999, roughly 22% of the
county's total, versus ca. 45.000 in 1994. This population is expected to grow to ca. 110.000 in year 2025 (see
tab. 1.). Immigration from El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemall and to a lesser extent from Mexico accounts
for roughly 15% of this growth, although the immigration rates have bcen decreasing slightly during the last
decade, About 42% of the population are under 1S years of age, a proportion thas most likely will continue to
grow well into the first years of the next centry.
Because of this rather rapid population growth, the urban areas are expanding at a fast pace; it is precisely on
those new urban areas of rather recent expansion where the great majority of the drainage works of the project
are to be carried out. This situation undndines one of the major problems of the towns, i.e., unplanned or poorly
planned urban occupation of marginal lands without the proper development of urban infastructure, particularly
in Dangriga. This is evident from: (i) dwelling densities are larger in the old sections of the towns than in the
newer peripheral areas, whether they are affluent or poorer quarters; (ii) the spontaneous occupation of land for
urban development often affects wetlands on a natural or successional status and invades or obstructs the natal
drainage systems; (iii) houses often lack appropriate systems for sewage and other domestic water disposal.
Thereby there is a high risk of drainage pollution from larrines and septic tanks located too close to the existing
drains or evacuating directly to them. To a lesser degree this is also true of garbage disposal; and (iv) most of the
project works are remedial actions needed to complement poorly engineered solutions, probably self-help type
works.
3. The Proposed Works
The design of the drainage improvement works is based on two main criteria. simplicity in arrangement and easy
maintenance. Therefore, systems that involve pumping were avoided, as they are not sustainable in te in Belize
conditions. The different works are a combination of two or more of the following types of works: existing drain
improvements (mostly culvert crossings and alignment ard depth and slope corrections of channels),
construction of new lined and unlined channels, construction of gated structures and construction or
improvement of outfall protections. The works arc designed as to effectivcly evacuate the peak storm runoff
from a ten-year return period stonn event of 30-minute duration. A total of 27 drainage improvement projects
are proposed at an estimated cost of BzS22.293 million. The most extensive works are in. Corozal and Dangriga
where respectively 6 and 9 drainage projects have been proposed at an estmated cost of BzS 14,795 million.
In order to optimise the atainment of the project goals for the six towns, within the budgetary constrains, a
priorization and phasing scheme for the developmcnt of the works was proposed based on a multi-objective
analysis that weights the following criteria: (i) engineering limitations; (ii) tot  budget for the project; (iui)
economic benefits of each town's works; (iv) social issues, mainly intensity of flooding; and (v) political
considerations, mainly provision of drainage solutions in every town. Hoever, the final decision about the order
of construction and sub-project phasing will be done jointly between the World Bank and the Government of
Belize. The works would take some 26 months to be consrcted if all the proposed works were undertaken in a
single phase, Table 1 summarises the sub-projects, which constitute the urban drainage component for Belize.



Table 1. Summary of BUIP Urban Drainage Component
-                  T   ma work   e            -           l sub-oroiects
.               populaw   ~dain        lined  unlined  gaed   outfal         time     -
Town        o(n       improve.  channel  chan-  struc-  prote-      work
Town        t~ion J99   .m                                     sites    plan    Costr
I. __________              ) ment          s      nels   tu     tion    l       (months)
Corozal                8.D8s     2        4                        3       6       15       6,6
Orange Walk           1.0OO      2        2       -                        3       12       1.35
Bengue Vieo del Carmn    6.200   4        2                                3       11       0,75
San Igaracio/Santa Ele a 11.570 - 1       3        1      -1               4       1 5      3,30
Dangrga                7.390     5         5       4       4       3       9       26       8.12
Punta Gorda            5.010     2                                         2       15       1,49
total                 53.255    16        16    _ 5        4       8       27      26    21,688
4 Environmental Impacts
Four types of works are lilkely to cause environmental impacts: Drains and canals. control structures, outfalls and
complementary works. Bach drainage scheme was evaluated independcntly for each town. The large majority of
impacts occur during the construction phase for all sub-projects; only one of which is beneficial in nature
(employment generation and improvements to local economies)* This however is considered not significant,
because of its temporary nature and low to medium magnimude even in those towns with the largest sub-projects
(Dangriga and Orange Walk). In general, all impacts during the construction phase are not significant or of low
magnitude in all towns. The larger impacts (magnitude medium to medium-high, which occur only in Dangriga)
are related to alterations of daily life in the urban space: the disturbances caused to dwellers and transient people
and traffic interruptions. They all are however, temporary and at least partly avoidable in all towns, by means of
environmental clauses, and good housekeeping practices during consiuction.
Perhaps the most sensitive environmental issues are associated with:
a. The risk of loss or damage to archaeological remains during excavation in all of the Corozal works sites,
b. The risk of loss of an endangered plant species in one of the works sites in Punts Gorda, and
c. Disturbances to wildlife habitats during the construction phase of one of the works sites at Dangriga.
The detailed ecological and archaeological surveys carried out at these sites concluded that although sensitive,
these impacts were not of great impotance. No critical natural babitas would be seriously affected, sensitive
species still thrive elsewhere in Belize and in the region, and archaeological remains have practically
disappeared in Corozal with the contruction of the town. hlowever, the EA proposes a series of mitigatory and
compensation measures to deal with these issues.
As expected most of the beneficial impacts will accrue during the operational phase of the sub-projects and are
related to the goals of the urban drainage project: reduction of urban flooding, reduction of damages to
properties caused by floods and consequently, increments in the development potential and value of lands.
These impacts however are not considered of a high magnitude in any one of the towns, (with perhaps the
excefption of Dangriga); the magnitudes are considered moderate in all the other towns.
There are a number of negative impacts expected to occur on the terrestrial and coastal and mnarine ecosystems
during the operational phase of the sub-projects, however these all are considered not significant or of low to
mecium magnitude. Damage to coral reefs is expected ncidw fom construction nor from the operation of any
of The proposed projects.
5. Nlitigation Plan during Construction
Constuction impacts will be managed through Environmental Clauses for the Consucdon Contract. This plan
focuses on the implementation of 'good housekeeping measures' to reduce or avoid adverse impacts. These
measures include access and rights of way, dust, noise and pollution control, protection of construction sites,
landscaping, protection of flora and fauna, selection and exploitation of quarries, traffic managemem, disposal of



wastes, health and ufety of workers and pedestians (including school children) and public relations. The
application o these 'good housekeeping measures' during the construction phaue are insured by its inclusion in
the tender documents and in the construction contracts. The contractors will be responsible for complying with
these clauses, and the Supervising Engineer will be responsible for ensuring that the contractors are in
compliance.
6. Environmental Management Plan
An environmental management plan (EMP) has been developed to ensure that the drainage sub-projects are
construced in such a way as to mitigate the adverse impacts while taking account of some of the institutional
problems identified. The implementation of the EMP will be the responsibility of the Supervising Engineer,
The EMP identifies seven areas of conce  related to the implementation of the project and puts forward
recommendations for a series of packages to be implemented during each of the construction phases. The total
cost of the proposed packages is Bz$414.000 over the three construction phases, with Bz$ 160.000 for Phase I.
Institutional weaknesses. The EM? foresees the provision of taining to staff at the local MoW offices and
Town Boards, in drainage design and maintenance, management and finance; and second the appointment of
a Supervising Enginccr to Implement the mitigaton plan and the EMP.
Urban and land use planning. It is a major concern for all towns and panicularly critical in Dangriga,
however, there are already within the government of Belize concems in the direction of formulating a wide
reaching programme. The EM? recommends small-scale assistance through technical advice to Town Boards
and environmental education programs.
Construction nuisances. As stated earlier they are to be controlled through the adoption of environmental
clauses in the contract documents and supervision of construction. (see para 5)
Coastsblyin Danigia. Due to the uncertainty of the impact, the BMP recommends monitoring of the
effccts of dredging on beaches.
Deterioration of water quality in Danzriga, This is only considered to be a problem during the initial flushing
of the canals as they are linked up to Stann Creek.
Bcology and biodiversity. The areas of concen are a mangrove habitat to the S of Dangriga and a seasonal
swamp forest with endangered and rare species in Punta Gorda. The EMP recommends habitat protection in
Dangriga, associated to the Grm Gra lagoon and support of a local NGO concerned wit the area. The areas of
interest  in Punta Gorda are private and no protected status can be guaranteed, even though is much needed
independently of the drainage works. The EM? suggests the acquisition of a 100-m wide corridor to ensure
protection.
Cultural heritage. The surveys and documentation carried out for the EIA study uncovcr a high risk of loss of
archaeological remains in Corozal and to a lesser degree in Orange Walk, San Ignacio-Santa Elena and
Benque Viejo del Carmen. The EMP proposes futher archaeological surveys and monitoring during
construction in all these towns.
7 Inter-Agency and PublilNGO Involvement
HalcroVs engineering and EIA study teams consulted with key government offices in each of the six towns,
namely the Town Boards, Public Health Inspector, Vector Control Unit, and the Water and Sewerage Authority.
Consultations were held with the Friends of Gra Gra in Dangriga, ESTAP and TIDE in Punta Gorda. A social
survey was undertaken in each town, to identlf the magnitude and nature of the flooding problem for dwellers
living or working near the main drainage system, and record their concems about construction, Finally,



co,asultations were held with school representatives where flooding was a problem. Further local consultation is
plnmned by placing a copy of the EIA on deposit at each of the Town Boards, and by inviting residents to review
and comment on the proposas.



