Report No. PID6875
Project Name                     Belize-Transport Rehabilitation & ...
Maintenance Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean
Sector                           Transport
Project ID                       BZPE40150
Borrower                         Government of Belize
Executing Agency                 Ministry of Works (MOW) & Ministry of Public
Utilities,
Transport and Environment (MPUTC)
Belmopan, Belize
Financing Plan                   IBRD:                    US$10.2 million
Government:              US$ 3.6 million
Total Cost:              US$13.8 million
Year in Lending Program          FY99
Tentative Appraisal Date         March 1999
Tentative Board Date             July 1999
1. Background. Belize is a small, open economy, with an estimated
population of about 230,000. The economy has long been dependent on sugar with
preferential market access to both the U.K. and the United States. However,
over the last decade it has expanded its export base into bananas (with
preferential market arrangements with the EU), citrus(access to the USA market
provided food quality standards are met), fisheries, agro-industries, and
tourism. A period of rapid economic growth in Belize in the late 1980s was
followed by a marked slowdown in the 1990s. During 1995-97 output grew by 2 §
percent a year, as a recovery of agriculture (mainly export-oriented) was
offset in part by a decline in construction and tourism. Economic activity is
estimated to have picked up somewhat in 1997. Inflation has been in line with
the international trend, averaging about 3t during 1991-1997, except in 1996
when consumer prices rose by 6 § percent in part because of the introduction
of VAT.
2. Road transport is the mode of transportation available for most freight and
passenger movements in Belize. Over the past decade, the road network, which
consists of 2600 km of roads (450 km paved), has been greatly improved,
particularly those roads serving the northern and western regions of the
country (Northern and Western Highways. The improvement of these roads has
increased tourism activity and has also stimulated growth in the agricultural
sector, particularly the citrus industry. The ongoing rehabilitation works of
the Hummingbird Highway (financed by the European Union - EU) and of the Stann
Creek Valley Road (financed by UK's Department for International Development -
DFID) have also contributed to the expansion of the citrus industry and
improved communications in the central region of the country. Finally, the
upcoming rehabilitation work on the Southern Highway with financing from
several sources including the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
International Cooperation Development Fund of Taipei (ICDF), and DFID, will
improve access to the southern districts, opening up economic opportunities
for the people of the southern region by integrating that region with the rest



of Belize.
3. Project Objectives. The overall objective would be to improve the
efficiency of road transport in Belize through: (a) the construction of a
bridge on the Western Highway over the Macal river in the town of San Ignacio
to replace the existing unsafe bridge (Hawkesworth bridge); (b) the
rehabilitation/improvement of selected road links; and (c) the enhancement of
the government's capacity to: (i) prepare rolling multi-year transport
investment plans; (ii) contract road maintenance activities; and (iii) deal
with road safety issues adequately
4. Project Description The proposed project consist of the following
components:
(A) Road Infrastructure Improvements. (Al)Construction/ Rehabilitation: (i)
bridge construction, (ii) construction bridge approaches, (iii) rehab. bridge
access roads; (A2) Rehabilitation/ Improvement of the selected roads;
(B) Institutional Capacity Building. TA/Consultant Services: (i) supervision
of works, (ii) transport sector strategy, (iii) road safety, (iv) road
maintenance procedures, and (v) PCU consultants.
5. Project Implementation. The project implementation will be the
responsibility of MOW through a project coordination unit(PCU). To avoid the
need to create a PCU, the possibility of using the Project Execution Unit
(PEU) recently established for the implementation of IDB's Southern Highway
Loan, will be studied. If this arrangement is found feasible, the project
would finance additional consultant services to add additional staff to the
unit since MOW has a limited number of skilled personnel. Implementation
period: 4 years. A portion of the proposed TA work will be executed by the
Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport and Environment (MPUTC) through its
Department of Transport (the development of a transport sector and of a
national road safety strategy).
6. Sustainability. Project sustainability will be enhanced by the technical
assistance components of the project, which are aimed at the strengthening of
MOW's capacity to manage the road sector and at the development of road
maintenance financing mechanisms that will ensure sufficient and timely flow
of funds. Furthermore, the participation of stakeholders (including
beneficiaries) will be incorporated as part of project preparation to build
the necessary ownership.
7. Lessons Learned. The Bank loans (Loan 2273-BEL: Road Maintenance &
Rehabilitation Project, US5.3 million, May 1983, and the Loan 2945-BEL: Second
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, US$5.6 million, May 1988.), to
Belize provided for the rehabilitation and maintenance of sections on the main
road network, the construction/rehabilitation of urban streets, engineering
studies and related supervision, and technical assistance for training. In
most cases the physical targets included in the projects were met; however,
the institutional development targets were only partially achieved. Similarly,
planning and programming procedures, especially for road maintenance, continue
to require increased emphasis. This is due, in part, to a lack of critical
mass of skilled personnel and insufficient and untimely financial resources.
The technical assistance components included in the proposed project are
designed to address the above noted aspects comprehensively.
8. Poverty Category. It is expected that the project will not be included in
- 2 -



the Program of Targeted Interventions.
9. Participation: The project entails formal participation of stakeholders
during its preparation or implementation.
10. Environmental Aspects. The environmental aspects have several components,
they include: (i)Ecological: (a)Green Iguana (b)Plantings (ii) Increases flood
risks (iii) Induced Development (iv) Archaeological Sites (v)Road Safety (vi)
Construction impacts.
The environmental impact assessment and outlined mitigation plan are adequate.
Some additional tasks, however, are required to complete the works (see Aide
Memoire dated June 11,1998).
11. Program Objective Categories. Economic Management (EA)
12. Contact Point:                The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 25, 1998.
- 3 -



