Page  1
July 15, 1999
The Right Honorable
Said Musa               
Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
Belmopan
Belize
Re:
Grant Agreement for Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project
Grant No. TF25599
Dear Sir:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to 
provide a grant (the Grant) in an amount not exceeding two hundred and fifty thousand United States 
dollars (US$250,000) (the Grant) to Belize (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of 
the Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of 
the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective 
as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By:____________________________
Maria Donoso Clark
Acting Country Director
Caribbean Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
BELIZE
By:
________________________
Name:
Said Musa
Title: Prime 
Minister
Page  2
Date:
September 9, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Belize Roads and Municipal 
Drainage Project (the Project), which has as its main objectives the improvement of road 
infrastructure, municipal drainage improvements and the strengthening of the procedures for road 
maintenance.  The Activities for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Carrying out of an assessment of the Recipient’s transport infrastructure needs including:
(i)
a review of existing information on the proposed Burrel Boom bypass and 
other roads sections of the Project;
(ii)
a study to prepare the design and implementation of pilot projects on road 
maintenance by contract and using micro-enterprises; and
(iii)
identification of issues affecting safeguard policies such as resettlement and 
indigenous peoples.
(b)
Carrying out of studies and/or assessments of the transport infrastructure needs:
(i)
to identify and prepare the final documents for the technical, economic and 
environmental studies to be financed under the Project; 
(ii)
to identify sustainable procedures for road maintenance by contract, including 
the possible formation of road maintenance micro-enterprise;
(iii)
to develop monitorable targets and project performance indicators;
(iv)
prepare an environmental action plan and a resettlement and indigenous 
peoples plan if needed; and
(v)
prepare terms of reference for the consultant services to be financed under the 
Project.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance goods and consultants’ services required for the above 
described transport infrastructure activities (the Activities).
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient shall cooperate 
through its Ministry of Public Works with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The 
Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of 
claims against the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by May 31, 2000.  After that date, the Bank 
may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done 
according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
member country on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or 
Page  3
permanent residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any 
of the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of 
its obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to 
which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of Belize, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended.  The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to 
receive Grant funds if: (a) the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to 
withdraw its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s 
assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is 
not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
