                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 34917

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (SCL-45750)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$13.0 MILLION

                                               TO

                                             BELIZE

                                             FOR A

                         ROADS AND MUNICIPAL DRAINAGE PROJECT




                                           March 27, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                              (Exchange Rate Effective January 1, 2006)

                                     Currency Unit = Belize Dollar, BZ$
                                               BZ$1 = US$ 0.50
                                              US$ 1 = BZ$2

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                         April 1 -   March 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
GNP    Gross National Product
GOB    Government of Belize
IADB   Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IRI    International Roughness Index
MMS    Maintenance Management System
MOWTC Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NGO    Non Governamental Organization
NPAPSP National Protected Areas Policy and Systems Plan
NPV    Net Present Value
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PEU    Project Execution Unit
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
RIMS   Roughton International Maintenance Management System
TA     Technical Assistance
USAID  United States Agency for International Development




                                    Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                                 Country Director:      Caroline D. Anstey
                                  Sector Manager:       Jose-Luis Irigoyen
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Stephen J. Brushett

                                            BELIZE
                    ROADS AND MUNICIPAL DRAINAGE PROJECT
                                       LOAN 4575-BEL


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            39

Project ID: P040150                                                  Project Name: BZ ROADS AND MUNICIPAL
                                                                     DRAINAGE PROJECT
Team Leader: Stephen J. Brushett                                     TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: BZ ROADS AND MUNICIPAL DRAINAGE                          L/C/TF Number: SCL-45750
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: BELIZE                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (50%); Flood protection (30%); Central government administration
                            (20%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Water resource management (P);
                            Other financial and private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/15/1998                                     Effective:                           01/30/2001
     Appraisal: 12/16/1999                                         MTR:                             11/01/2002
      Approval: 09/05/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BELIZE/MINISTRY OF WORKS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager/Director:        Makhtar Diop                                   Danny M. Leipziger
Team Leader at ICR:             Stephen J. Brushett                            Guillermo Ruan
ICR Primary Author:             Ephrem Asebe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Belize is a small, open private sector-led economy, with a population of about 282,600 in 2004, a
per capita GNP of US$3,900 (Atlas method), and a total land area of 23,000 sq. km. The
country's topography is characterized by large areas which are mountainous or which are covered
by swampy lowlands. The country has in the recent past embarked on a program of major
infrastructure projects, including the Bank project, to address un-met needs.

In June 2000, the Bank approved financing to the Government of Belize (GOB) through the
Ministry of Works, Transport and Communication (MOWTC) of a US$13.0 million IBRD Loan
for a Roads and Municipal Drainage Project with a total estimated cost of US$18.39 million. The
IBRD Loan became effective on January 30, 2001 with an original closing date of June 30, 2004.
The revised closing date was September 30, 2005. A 9 month extension to March 31, 2005 was
granted in February 2004, and a further and final 6 month extension was granted in March 2005.

As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the original objectives of the project were to:

(i)      improve year-round traffic flows on the national road network by upgrading the road
bypass connecting the Northern and Western Highways;

(ii)     improve natural drainage and reduce floods and/or the impact of floods in the selected
municipalities through priority storm-water drainage improvements;

(iii)    assess the potential of private sector participation in road maintenance activities through
implementation of a pilot project; and

(iv)     improve management of the transport sector, including transport policy coordination
among the different government ministries and agencies involved in transport, through the
transport sector and road safety strategies.

The project objectives were supportive of, and consistent with, the proposed GOB policy and
institutional reforms focused on preservation of the road assets. These policy and institutional
reforms included principally: (i) ensuring that appropriate attention is paid to road maintenance,
including the provision of adequate budgetary allocations; (ii) increasing the participation of the
private sector in road maintenance activities; (iii) improving the selection, planning and
prioritization of road construction and rehabilitation projects; (iv) strengthening the planning and
programming functions of the transport sector; (v) improving road safety; and (vi) improving the
institutional maintenance framework for municipal drainage.


3.2 Revised Objective:
Shortly after effectiveness, it was agreed to drop Objective (iii) from the Project (private sector
participation in road maintenance). This was on the grounds that this objective could be subsumed
under an ongoing project funded by the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) under the
Southern Highway Upgrading Project. The project was eventually formally restructured and an



                                                 - 2 -

amendment to the Loan Agreement to this effect was signed on October 4, 2004 by the Bank and
the GOB. The amendment included a formal reallocation of loan proceeds to additional drainage
works in two municipalities as well as to the corresponding consultancy services.

3.3 Original Components:
The original project components were:

(i)     Upgrading of the national road network through rehabilitation/improvement of the Burrell
Boom Bypass (20km) and the Burrell Boom Bridge (US$8.48 million);

(ii)    A pilot project for roads maintenance by contract (US$1.15 million);

(iii)   Drainage-related works for six selected municipalities (US$ 5.73 million);

(iv)    Institutional strengthening and capacity building through technical assistance and
training (US$2.74 million); and,

(v)     Goods (US$0.16 million)

The project components were relevant to the achievement of the project objectives. The project
had a well formulated logframe relating the CAS, project objectives, outcomes, and outputs. The
performance indicators of the project for outcomes and for outputs were mostly quantifiable
indicators and overall are considered to be adequate (Annex 1).
.
3.4 Revised Components:
As formally agreed in October 2004 as part of the restructuring of the project, the component (ii),
a pilot project for roads maintenance by contract, was dropped. It was agreed that the part of the
funds originally allocated to this component (US$650,000) be used to finance additional drainage
works in the two municipalities of Orange Walk and Corozal as well as for the corresponding
consultancy services. It is noted that it had originally been intended to reallocate the funding of
component (ii) to a second road upgrading project for the Northern Highway between
Buttonwood Bay Boulevard and Haulover Creek, in response to damage caused by Hurricane
Keith. This reallocation was not in the end affected as the proposed supplemental IBRD loan in
the amount of US$2 million to complete the financing of the works was not processed. The
Government has availed to the Bank a copy of its completion report on the IADB funded pilot
initiative the results of which are assessed below.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was not reviewed at appraisal by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). The ICR rates the quality at entry as satisfactory. This assessment is based on the
following:

The project objectives were consistent and supportive of the Bank's sector-related Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) goals. The project would help towards the realization of the specific
goals set out in the CAS for 2000-2004 that is: (i) improving the quality of life of the population
by providing adequate drainage systems to reduce flooding and the impact of flooding in six



                                                 - 3 -

municipalities; (ii) increasing the participation of the private sector in the upgrading and
maintenance of basic infrastructure; and (iii) strengthening the regulatory framework and planning
capacity of the public sector.

The project objectives were also relevant to the needs of the intended main beneficiaries. These
included in particular four major groups as follows: road users benefiting from traveling over an
improved network; municipal residents benefiting from drainage improvements; the construction
industry from the roads and drainage investment; and, the general population from increased
economic activities and employment opportunities generated by the works to be financed by the
loan.

The preparation of the project involved substantial input from the Borrower as an indication of
commitment and ownership. The GOB completed the financing from its own source of the
engineering studies needed to implement the project ahead of Bank Board approval of the project.
Timely provision of counterpart funds was also rated as high throughout the implementation of
the project.

The monitoring indicators devised for the project were appropriate and quantifiable. Careful
attention was given to the design of output and outcome monitoring in the design of the project.
For each of the objectives and the components, monitoring indicators were established in the
Implementation Letter signed on December 20, 2000.

The proviso to this assessment is that the stated project objectives may have been too modest.
There would perhaps have been some benefit in regard to eventual outcomes from a greater
degree of specificity in regard to the objectives concerning improved management of the transport
sector and increased private sector participation in roads maintenance.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overview: Overall, the contribution of the project to the realization of sector-related CAS goals is
assessed as satisfactory. Specifically the project has: (1) improved the quality of life of the urban
population by completing the drainage improvements, inter alia in selected municipalities including
Benque Viejo del Carmen, Corozal, Dangriga, Orange Walk, Punta Gorda, and San Ignacio; (2)
increased to some extent the participation of the private sector in road upgrading and maintenance
(see below); and (3) started the process of strengthening the regulatory framework and planning
capacity.   There are no differences between the assessment rating of outcomes against original
objectives as against revised objectives.

Project outcome is assessed against each of the stated development objectives below.

Revised Objectives

A. Improve year-round traffic flows on the national road network. This objective has been
satisfactorily achieved. The ex-post review suggests that the targets set at appraisal have been



                                                 - 4 -

exceeded. Traffic count an average annual increase of 22% between 2002 and 2005 far exceeding
the 10% annual increase in the first year. Travel time has been reduced by over 30 minutes. The
opening of the Burrell Boom By-Pass has generally speaking facilitated traffic flows, especially
those related to commerce and tourism, and has enabled heavy traffic on the Northern and
Western Highways to avoid going through Belize City. These improvements should be sustainable
provided scheduled maintenance is carried out.

B. Improve natural drainage and reduce floods and/or the impact of floods in the selected
municipalities. This objective has been satisfactorily achieved. The completion of the drainage
component has helped to upgrade the dimensions and the quality of drainage structures and has
significantly improved the urban environment, through increased mobility and reduced health
risks. Heavy rains and river high tides would now be expected generally to have far lower
negative effects than hitherto - much less flooding of streets and properties occurs or is likely to
occur.

D. Improve management of the transport sector, including transport policy coordination
among the different government ministries and agencies involved in transport. The progress
towards improved management of the transport sector is assessed as satisfactory. Much of the
necessary groundwork has been covered in studies and technical assistance funded under the
project. Action plans have been prepared, but planning and programming improvements actually
implemented to date are moderate. The five year transport sector development plan has been
produced and is currently under review.

Original (dropped) Objective

C. Assess the potential of private sector participation in road maintenance activities. This
objective was dropped from the project. However under the above-mentioned parallel initiative
funded by IADB, a program with comparable objectives was satisfactorily achieved. Under this
pilot, the number of kilometers covered was well in excess of the 120 km provided as a target for
this objective originally. This experience demonstrated that cost effective maintenace could be
carried out on the main road network through local contractors.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Overall achievement of the outputs of the project is rated as more than satisfactory. The output
targets have been met or exceeded as evidenced in Annex 1(b) and the quality of the outputs is
assessed as satisfactory.

Revised Outputs

A. Upgrading the national road network with Burrell Boom Bypass (20km) and Burrell
Boom Bridge (PAD: US$8.48 million; ICR: US$9.58 million). The achievement of this
component was more than satisfactory. The works completed in December 2002 include 20km
of road works improvements and the upgrading of a major river crossing. These have helped to
provide a safe high-speed route that will enable heavy traffic to bypass Belize City, a key
alternative route for traffic traveling between the northern, western and southern districts of



                                               - 5 -

Belize. The road link between Belmopan and the International Airport was shortened by about
10km and the travel time by 20 to 40 minutes. Traffic volume increased by about 84% between
2002 and 2005 and vehicle operating cost have been reduced by 62%. During implementation a
number of issues in the original design were addressed, including upgrading the bridge structure
and altering its location for a more robust solution to hurricane damage mitigation. The finished
road works were on the whole of very high quality and construction was carried out with due
attention to minimize undue adverse environmental impact and to assure road safety following
good practice. The surface has been constructed to a good standard. It has good visibility for the
design speed of 80 to 100km per hour. The design incorporated changes to the horizontal
alignment of the road which will improve the character and consistency of the route, making it
safer by giving drivers a more uniform expectation of curve radius, and super-elevation. In line
with the appraisal forecast, the pavement roughness following the International Roughness Index
(IRI) has been reduced from 8 at appraisal to 2 following the road improvement.

C. Flood control improvement through drainage works in six towns (PAD: US$5.73
million; ICR: US$5.63 million). The achievement of this component is assessed overall as
satisfactory. A total of 14.3km of drain works were completed (compared to 14.7km estimated
at appraisal) through eight separate contracts in the six municipalities of: Orange Walk, Corozal,
Dangriga, Punta Gorda, San Ignacio/Santa Elena and Benque Viejo del Carmen. The drainage
works were completed within budget, even with some time delay in works completion particularly
due to procurement delays on a number of the contracts - the last of which for the Benque Viejo
Del Carmen works was only completed in September 2005. The completion of this component in
municipal towns has helped to reduce the impact of flooding on streets and properties - even
though the coverage of the works is limited to the main flooding areas and does not meet all the
needs. The estimated number of direct beneficiaries is 7,740 people or 14.5% out of a total
population of 53,250. The component has given rise to measurable quantified benefits - the
average observed property value increases exceeded the appraisal estimate for the first year
increase. On the qualitative side, the level of environmental awareness has increased and the
health and safety of both the residents and the traveling public has on the whole improved.

D. Institutional strengthening/capacity building (TA/Studies/Training) (PAD: US$2.74
million; ICR: US$3.06 million). The achievement of this component is assessed as satisfactory.
Supervisory services for the civil works components of the project were carried out effectively.
The Transport Strategy, the Road Safety Strategy and the Transport Data Base (Institutional
Development Strategy Consultancy, Halcrow, March, 2005) have been completed. Action plans
are being prepared for the implementation of the recommendations over the short, medium and
long terms - with few actions however as yet initiated at this writing. A Drainage Management
and Planning Study (Olga Samper, July 2004) and the Planning and Land Use Support study
(Francisco Londoño, September, 2004) were successfully completed and are being reviewed. The
GOB has made a commitment to prepare action plans for each of the resulting studies under this
technical assistance prior to the implementation of several of the recommendations. Some 12
municipal staff members received job training during the course of implementation of the studies.
The technical assistance for the Gra Gra Lagoon and for the "Zamia Picta" study (Jan Meerman,
September 2005) has been completed. The project thus includes investment in environmental
management to protect sensitive areas and to mitigate any impact that the project, especially the



                                                 - 6 -

drainage improvement works, would have on sensitive areas, i.e. the environmental management
plan (EMP) for the Gra Gra National Park provides for measures to compensate the
environmental impacts for the drainage construction in Dangriga and also to open up eco-tourism
opportunities in the area; and the "Zamia Picta" study, provides measures to protect rare flora
species from any impacts from the drainage construction in Punta Gorda. The implementation of
the environmental initiatives is expected to be pursued under the recently approved National
Protected Areas Policy and Systems Plan (NPAPSP) for integrated management for all of Belize's
Protected Areas. Funding and technical assistance is to be provided in support of implementation
of the EMP inter alia through the NGO, Friends of Gra Gra, which has attracted some donor
support.

E. Goods (PAD: US$0.16 million; ICR: US$0.01 million). This component was restricted to
the purchase of computers for office use by the Project Execution Unit.

Original (Dropped ) Output

B. Roads maintenance initiative (PAD: US$1.15 million; ICR: US$ 0.00 million). As stated
above, the component was dropped from the project, though a comparable program was carried
out under funding by IADB under the Southern Highway Upgrading Project. A total of 4
contracts covering 111.3 km of periodic maintenance, three contracts covering 94.5km of routine
maintenance and nine contracts covering 138.15km of micro-maintenance contracts were
completed. The quality of the works was generally good. The project was supervised by the
MOWTC. An assessment of the works has been completed on the ground and the outcome is
favorable. In the execution of these contracts, timely quality control tests through continuous site
monitoring to control for variability of material obtained from different sites was undertaken.
Environmental issues such as control of dust, especially in resident areas, were addressed with
liberal use of water. Site safety was monitored and reviewed when ever a representative of PEU
was on site. A detailed assessment of maintenance work was done to update the Maintenance
Management System (MMS) of the MOWTC. Road segments were reviewed and as work
progressed the MMS system was updated with results gathered from this provision of periodic
maintenance, such as updating of culvert inventories. The Completion Report for the Pilot
Routine and Periodic Maintenance by Contract, dated January 2004, indicates that the capacity
available within MOWTC (including the Project Execution Unit, PEU) is significant and could be
used to provide management of road maintenance contracts over the long term. However, the
number of private contractors has not increased significantly ­ this is reported to be 8 at this time.
The Government continues mainly to use force account for road maintenance and mostly it is the
private sector that use the private contractors for road maintenance.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Ex-post economic analysis was carried out on the road and bridge improvement and drainage
improvement components. A comparable cost-benefit analysis methodology was employed in
order to compare the appraisal estimates with the post construction estimates.

The main benefits for the physical investments in Burrell Boom Bypass road/bridge improvements
are the savings to be made by road users in vehicle operating costs, passenger time costs and


                                                 - 7 -

accident costs. The post-construction Net Present Value (NPV) is estimated BZ$21.097 million
compared to BZ$17.49 million at appraisal. The post construction economic rate of return (ERR)
estimate is 27% compared to 22.6% at appraisal. Accident reduction benefits were excluded from
consideration because of lack of reliable data.

The ex-post analysis of the drainage component identifies a wide range of quantifiable and
qualitative benefits and confirms the appraisal assessment that the project should have been
undertaken. The ex-ante cost benefit analysis identified an NPV of BZ$5.26 million and an ERR
of 32.9%, with about 70% of the quantifiable benefits coming from an increase in property values
of 18% attributable over the course of the project in the six municipalities. The ex-post analysis
carried out by GOB suggests that the property value improvements fall in the range 15% - 25%.
However only 20% of the observed property price increase is imputed as a benefit to the project.
On the basis of these assumptions the NPV is negative. The results are however highly sensitive to
the proportion of the property value increase imputed to the project - and reasonable people could
disagree as to what should be the best figure to use. The Bank estimated that if one third of the
increase is imputed, NPV would be zero at an ERR of 12%. If 100% were imputed the ERR
would be 114%.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
There were no revenue-earning project components. No financial analysis was warranted.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a modest institutional development impact. Actions plans over short, medium
and long-term for phased implementation have been prepared in order to implement the National
Transport Strategy, Road Safety Program and Transport Data Base, all of which have been
elaborated thanks to technical assistance funded under this project. The GOB has already taken
steps to restructure ministerial oversight and policy responsibility for the transport sector and to
consolidate this in one Ministry. The expectation is that as GOB moves towards implementation
of all the measures outlined in the action plans the institutional development impact is likely to be
more significant.      In addition, the experience gained in the pilot maintenance initiative has
enhanced the institutional capability to plan and implement maintenance under short term or
pluri-annual contracts with the private sector. The GOB has yet however to adopt a
comprehensive strategy to generally increase the private sector role in road and drainage
maintenance. The deterioration in the funding situation of GOB has apparently deterred a more
rapid roll-out of private sector contracting for road maintenance.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Belize is situated in a geographical zone with a high degree of vulnerability to extreme weather
conditions - the country has been adversely impacted by hurricane damage on a number of
occasions, included that associated with Hurricane Keith in late 2001. This event certainly had
some impact on the project finances as well as on the cost and prioritization of project works,
although it unfortunately was not possible to carry through with the intention of reallocating some
of the loan proceeds to address hurricane related damage on the Northern Highway. Fuel prices
rose considerably at the tail end of project implementation and this did have some impact on
project costs. There were otherwise no major factors outside of government control that affected


                                                     - 8 -

the project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
A substantial proportion of project costs were to be met from the GOB budget, in addition to
which were the anticipated incremental expenditures required for asset maintenance. The
implementation of the project did suffer for a time - from 2001/2002 in the aftermath of Hurricane
Keith - from delays in the provision of counterpart funding, a risk that had already been assessed
as "high" at the time of the appraisal. However, the GOB was eventually able to cover its share of
project costs. In regard to institutional development actions, the Bank has been assured by GOB
that it intends to implement the required actions in due course.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project implementation depended on the institutional capacity and effective management provided
by MOTWC through the PEU and on the capacity of the six municipalities to support the
implementation of (and contribute to the eventual maintenance of) the drainage improvements.
There were no major factors that adversely affected implementation and outcome. The PEU was
properly staffed and resourced to carry out its functions. Both directly and through consultancy
services, it was able to provide effective management of the project during implementation. The
right choices were made in regard to the design and implementation of the civil works. For
example, experience has shown that under Belize's rainfall conditions lined drains would likely
have a longer economic life and are easier to maintain than unlined drains. It is recommended that
in future projects more lined drains should be built. MOWTC would provide technical and
financial assistance to municipalities to carry out major periodic maintenances while the councils
will have to execute and fund the routine maintenance.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project cost was US$18.39 million of which IBRD amount was US$13.0 million. The
final overall project cost was US$18.41 million with an IBRD contribution of US$12.42 million.
Overall, there is thus no significant change in the overall cost. However the road maintenance
component was financed by IADB and the IBRD resources were reallocated mostly to
consultancy services. The 30% increase in costs of the Burrell Boom and Bridge were mainly
financed by GOB ­ only 58% of the final cost was funded by the IBRD loan.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated overall as likely, with however some areas set out below that
will need particular attention:

(i)      In general, awareness of the importance of maintenance for sustainability of the road and
drainage assets has been increased. This awareness has been buttressed by some improvements in
maintenance management, such as the recently installed Maintenance Management System for
MOWTC. The MMS is used to identify and short list major roads in each district based on length,
volume of traffic use, existing condition, and level of maintenance required. The proposed
institutional development program in MOWTC will however need to assure the availability of the
qualified staff and the financial resources to maintain these management systems.




                                                     - 9 -

(ii)    For the maintenance of road assets, availability of adequate financial resources and of
sufficient contracting capacity will be necessary to assure sustainability. GOB has generally been
able to provide sufficient budgetary resources for maintenance, but this cannot be systematically
assured for the future, particularly in view of the recent deterioration in the fiscal situation. The
Bank has advised the GOB to review its medium term maintenance requirements and to assess the
options for future funding strategies, including recourse to dedicated road user financing.
Relatively limited progress has been made to date on contracting out maintenance works to the
private sector, although the results of the pilot project have been largely favorable. In the Bank's
experience, sustainability of road maintenance services will be enhanced through developing a
deeper pool of local contractors and by reducing dependence on force account works. The GOB
would be advised to move forward more aggressively in this area.

(iii)   For the maintenance of the drainage assets, responsibility for maintenance now devolves to
the concerned municipalities who will be required to ensure that the financing and institutional
capacity is put into place. Some assistance was provided through the project in that maintenance
manuals have been developed. More attention should probably now be paid to support the
development of small firms for carrying out municipal level maintenance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no transitional arrangements as such. All civil works components have been completed.
The ownership and management responsibility for the assets created or rehabilitated is to be
passed to the municipalities. However, MOWTC has responsibility for maintenance of the new
drainage network for the first 2 years. The proposed institutional reforms are to be implemented
in phases and this is likely however to take some considerable time before the process is complete
and before the positive impact of the changes are felt.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the lending phase is assessed overall as satisfactory. During
identification, the task team ensured the project objectives were supportive of the CAS and the
country's overall development goals. The design of the project also ensured that the project
components were supportive of the objectives of the project and could be for the most part
implemented in an effective manner. The only proviso here concerns the design and construction
supervision arrangements for the drainage works which were to be contracted out to a single firm.
Implementation experience suggests that it would have been as effective and much lower cost to
have contracted out to small, local firms for at least the supervision component of these works.

7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank in supervision was broadly satisfactory. The skill mix of
supervision staff was appropriate. The frequency of supervision missions was about right - 12
missions inclusive of the mid term review - during the 5 years of project implementation. This was
supplemented by frequent interaction between Bank and GOB staff during implementation to
address issues arising, especially on procurement and related to compliance with the loan
conditions, including audit. Considerable efforts were expended by the team on project
restructuring, inter alia to provide an effective response to Hurricane Keith related damage -



                                                  - 10 -

although this effort was not successful as the required supplemental loan could not be processed.
More attention could perhaps have been paid to institutional development in view of the past
experience in the country. More specific targets could have been developed in order to firm up
GOB commitment to take action on recommendations emanating from the technical assistance
and studies. One issue did arise in conjunction with the Bank's handling of the second extension of
the loan closing date. The Bank agreed only to a 6 month extension from March 31, 2005 to
September 30, 2005 whereas the GOB had requested 1 year, which was the time GOB estimated
was required to complete the proposed additional drainage for Corozal and Orange Walk. The
additional works were intended to be financed out of the loan proceeds freed up by the
cancellation of the road maintenance pilot as a result of the October 2004 restructuring exercise.
The Bank placed priority on completion of the original set of works contained in the loan, and
believed that if procurement and contracting were initiated in a timely manner during the first
extension, a 6 month second extension would be adequate to complete both the original scope of
work and the two additional drainage projects. However, delays were encountered in preparing
the tender documents for Corozal and Orange Walk and, as the original road and drainage works
were by then complete, the Bank felt the objectives of the project had been reached and could not
justify further project extension. As a result the additional works could not be financed out of the
loan and have not in fact been carried out to date. The GOB accepted this decision, after some
initial reluctance. Some US$ 0.57 million remained undisbursed at loan closing and this amount
has now been formally canceled.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is assessed overall as satisfactory. The Borrower
participated fully in all project preparatory activities and financed much of the required work
through its own resources. In regard to the above-mentioned issue of the design and supervision
arrangements for the drainage improvements, the Borrower shares some responsibility with the
Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government performance is assessed overall as broadly satisfactory. In key areas the
government has made good decisions which facilitated the timely implementation of most project
components. These include the staffing of the PEU and the selection of contractors and
consultants. In the aftermath of Hurricane Keith and a decline in the government's financial
position from 2001/2002 onwards, the project did experience some delays in the release of
counterpart funding. Although GOB was able to meet all its obligations in due course, the delays
contributed to delays in payments to contractors and consultants and to an increase in some of the
project costs, especially for the supervision of the drainage improvements. The various studies
under the project in regard to institutional development and capacity building were diligently
executed. While some of the recommended actions had been taken during the life of the project -
such as those concerning the restructuring of the sector ministry and the concentration of all
responsibilities for transport policy in one location - the majority of actions have however yet to
be implemented.



                                                 - 11 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementation agency is assessed as satisfactory. The PEU had been
earlier established to provide project management services to all capital development projects
under MOWTC ­ which thus included the Bank funded project. The Head of the PEU was the
designated Project Manager. The PEU has generally executed satisfactorily all contract payments,
variation orders, land issues, service diversions and other issues that arose during implementation.
Procurement procedures used by the PEU were in accordance with Bank guidelines. However,
during project implementation, there were some delays experienced in awarding of the civil works
contracts by the GOB for drainage works - in relation to the procurement plan ­ and for this
reason compliance and quality of procurement under the project was downgraded to
unsatisfactory for a while. Consultants had to be granted an extension to supervise the
procurement process and supervision of the works. These issues contributed to a delay in
commissioning some of the drainage works. This was particularly the case with Benque Viejo del
Carmen which works were only contracted in February 2005 and completed in late September
2005. The scope of work for this contract ­ and its associated costs ­ was expanded to
accommodate the needs of the municipality.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall the Borrower's performance is assessed as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.      Regarding institutional development, project design could have been improved by setting
more specific objectives for reforms and by establishing dated targets for the implementation of
particular institutional improvements.     This would probably have increased the chances that
progress towards improved institutional performance could have been achieved during the life of
the project.

2.      Implementation experience suggests that small, local firms could have handled a larger
percentage of consultancy assignments under the project than was provided for in the initial
design and in the procurement plan. Projects of this nature should generally seek to provide
increased opportunities to small, local firms.

3.      Regarding private sector participation, project design could have usefully gone beyond
assessing its potential for road and drainage maintenance. The project could have provided for
more specific targets in regard to the taking of operational decisions based on the results of the
pilot exercise during the course of the life of the project, such as adopting of a strategy for how to
implement private sector maintenance or even increasing the percentage of works by volume or
value to be contracted out to local firms by year.

4.      Projects of this nature can serve as a useful instrument for building up disaster/hurricane
responsiveness and for putting in place vulnerability reduction measures. Specific attention should
be given to the review of design parameters in infrastructure to ensure that mitigation is
appropriately taken into account.




                                                 - 12 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

1        Achievement of Objective and Outputs
1.1      Outcome / Achievement of Objective:

Overall, the contribution of the Municipal Drainage Project to the realization of sector-related
CAS goals is assessed by the Government of Belize as satisfactory. The Project has:

1.       Improved the quality of life of the urban municipalities by providing drainage
infrastructure improvements specifically in Corozal Town, Orange Walk Town, San Ignacio /
Santa Elena, Benque Viejo Del Carmen, Dangriga Town and Punta Gorda;
2.       Increased the participation of the private sector in secondary road upgrading and periodic
maintenance; and
3.       Started the process of strengthening the regulatory framework and planning capacity.

The achievement of the specific project development objectives are presented below:

1.1.1 Improve year-round traffic flows on the national road network.

This objective has been satisfactorily achieved.         Ex-post review shows that targets set at
appraisal have been met and exceeded. Traffic count showed an average annual increase of 22%
since completion; this far exceeds the predicted 10% increase in the first year. Travel time is
reduced by over 30 minutes through the by-pass. The opening of the Burrell Boom By-Pass has
facilitated a shift in traffic flow patterns, especially those related to commerce and tourism. It
enables heavy traffic on the Northern and Western Highways to avoid going through Belize City.
The improvements will be sustainable provided scheduled maintenance is carried out.

1.1.2 Improve natural drainage and reduce floods and/or the impact of floods in the selected
municipalities.

This objective has been satisfactorily achieved. The target of a 10% increase in the value of
affected properties, one year after completion, was achieved in all municipalities. Property values
have increased from 11% to 25%. The completion of the drainage component improved the
urban environment; heavy rains and river floods now generally have minimal negative effect on the
municipality, and much less flooding of streets and properties occurs.

1.1.3 Assess the potential of private sector participation in road maintenance activities.

This objective was dropped from the project. A similar initiative was funded by the IADB. This
program was satisfactorily achieved; periodic and routine maintenance was provided to more than
120 km of secondary and feeder roads by private sector contracting firms.

1.1.4 Improve management of the transport sector, including transport policy coordination
among the different government ministries and agencies involved in transport.

The progress towards improved management of the transport sector is assessed as moderately
satisfactory.    Comprehensive studies and technical assistance funded under the project has
organized and prepared five-year transport sector development plans and identified key areas of
need.    Improvements to date are, however only moderate while transport sector plans are



                                                 - 13 -

currently under review.

1.2     Outputs by Component
Overall achievement of the outputs of the project is rated as more than satisfactory. The output
targets have been met or exceeded and the quality of the outputs is assessed as satisfactory.

1.2.1 Upgrading the national road network with Burrell Boom Bypass & Burrell Boom
Bridge

The achievement of this component was more than satisfactory. The works were completed in
December 2002.

During the construction phase a number of unforeseen issues in the original design were
addressed.   These design adjustments included changes in the horizontal alignment which
improved the character and consistency of the route by giving drivers a uniform expectation of
curve radius, and super-elevation thereby increasing road safety. The original design of the bridge
was upgraded and its location altered for a more robust structure to mitigate hurricane and flood
damage mitigation.

1.2.2 Roads maintenance initiative

As stated above, the component was dropped from the project, though a comparable program
was carried out under funding by IADB under the Southern Highway Upgrading Project.

1.2.3 Flood control improvement through drainage works in six towns

Achievement of this component is assessed overall as more than satisfactory. A total of 14.3
km of drain works were completed through eight separate contracts in the six municipalities
including: Corozal Town, Orange Walk Town, San Ignacio/Santa Elena, Benque Viejo del
Carmen, Dangriga Town, and Punta Gorda Town. The drainage works were completed within
budget; significant time delays were encountered due to procurement delays on a number of
contracts. As an example the Benque Viejo Del Carmen works contracts were only completed in
September 2005. The completion of these drainage contracts have helped reduced the impact of
flooding on streets and properties. The scope of works was originally limited to address the areas
of severe flooding and did not meet all drainage needs for the particular municipality. An
economic study was conducted for each municipality and the reports produced showed that the
estimated number of direct beneficiaries is 7,740 people or 14.5% out of an estimated total
population of 53,250. The average increase in rental rates was approximately 5%; property value
has increased between 11% and 25%.               During implementation of the contracts other
environmental issues and drainage improvements were identified and addressed.            It can be
generally said that the level of environmental awareness has increased and the health and safety of
both the residents and the travelling public has improved.

1.2.4 Institutional strengthening/capacity building (TA/Studies/Training)

Achievement of this component is assessed as satisfactory. Supervisory services for the civil
works components of the project were carried out effectively. The Transport Strategy, the Road
Safety Strategy and the Transport Database (Institutional Development Strategy Consultancy by
Halcrow Group Ltd. in March, 2005) were completed. Action plans are being prepared for the



                                                - 14 -

implementation of the recommendations over the short, medium and long terms. The Drainage
Management and Planning Study and the Planning and Land Use Support Study were successfully
completed. The GOB is preparing action plans for each of the resulting studies under this
technical assistance based on the recommendations. The technical assistance for the Gra Gra
Lagoon and for the "Zamia Picta" study was completed.                 The implementation of the
recommended environmental initiatives is expected to be pursued under the recently approved
National Protected Areas Policy and Systems Plan (NPAPSP) for integrated management for all
of Belize's Protected Areas. Funding and technical assistance is to be provided in support of
implementation of the EMP through the NGO, Friends of Gra Gra, which has attracted some
donor support.

1.3     Institutional Development Impact

The project has had a modest institutional development impact. Action plans for short, medium
and long-term phased implementation have been prepared for National Transport Strategy, Road
Safety Program and Transport Data base.          However, the GOB has already taken steps to
restructure ministerial oversight and policy responsibility for the transport sector and to
consolidate this in one Ministry.

2       Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
2.1     Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency

Because of its geographical location Belize is particularly susceptible to severe weather conditions
in the form of Tropical Storms and Hurricanes. Belize was physically affected by Hurricane Keith
in 2001 as well as indirectly affected, in the form of flooding, by storms affecting adjacent
countries. Hurricane Keith and other storms affected the availability of counterpart project
finances as well as the cost and prioritisation of project works. Fuel prices began to rise toward
the end of the project; this had some minor effect on one of the eight construction contracts but
this was not significant when compared to the entire project scope and duration.

2.2     Factors generally subject to government control

The Government of Belize was responsible for a substantial portion of the project costs under its
counterpart funding agreement, in addition to these funds GOB needed to budget for incremental
expenditures on asset maintenance. When funding was diverted to emergency requirements in
conjunction with damage done by Hurricane Keith, the procurement for the Municipal Drainage
Project was delayed. Even though there were delays and valuable time was lost, the Government
was eventually able to cover its contribution to project costs.

2.3     Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

Project implementation was carried out by the Ministry of Works and Transport and depended
specifically on the capacity and effective management provided through the Project Execution
Unit. Further to the implementation of the project by the MOWTC, a portion of the success of
the project depended on the capacity and quality of administration provided by the six
municipalities to support implementation and contribute to the maintenance of drainage assets.
The PEU was properly staffed to carry out effective management and project implementation,
either alone or through the procurement of consultancy services. There were no major factors
that adversely affected implementation and outcome.



                                                - 15 -

2.4     Costs and financing

At appraisal the total project cost was estimated to be US$18.39 million, of this the GOB was to
contribute US $5.39 million. Upon project completion the Bank had contributed US$12.44 and
GOB US$6.92 million. This was the total at completion for the Belize Roads and Municipal
Drainage Project, including the Burrell Boom Upgrading Project, Municipal Drainage Project,
Institutional Strengthening / Capacity Building and acquisition of goods.

3       Sustainability
3.1     Rationale for the sustainable rating

Overall the project sustainability is rated as highly likely.      The GOB has demonstrated a
commitment to the principle of the importance of maintenance.

Awareness of the importance of maintenance of road and drainage assets for protection of
investments and for sustainability has been increased through the implementation of the project.
Improvements in the Maintenance Management System for the MOWTC were recently made and
reviewed under a training program prepared and supported by the CDB; the MMS is used to
identify and short-list major roads in each district and prioritise them for maintenance based on
length, volume of traffic, type of traffic, existing conditions and maintenance required. The
proposed institutional development program will definitely increase the awareness and importance
of the execution of a timely maintenance program.

Availability of adequate finances and contracting capacity is vital for sustainability and
maintenance of road and drainage assets.          GOB had generally budgeted resources for
maintenance; and intends to continue to improve on this in the future. Furthermore, the quality
and quantity of maintenance must increase parallel to the value of assets achieved under the
project. Therefore, GOB intends to address the contracting out of maintenance works to the
private sector; as the results from the pilot project (IADB) has shown that this type of
maintenance by contract produces favourable results that would be beneficial to the country.

For the maintenance of the drainage assets, some responsibility was passed to the concerned
municipalities. Assistance in the form of capacity building and financing should accompany this
responsibility to ensure successful maintenance results. Assistance in the form of maintenance
manuals was provided to the municipalities and representatives of the PEU visit occasionally to
dispense technical advice as required.

3.2     Transition arrangement to regular operations

There are no transitional arrangements as such. All civil works components have been completed.
The ownership of assets created or rehabilitated and the maintenance management thereof is
passed to the town councils. The GOB through the MOWT has the responsibility for the
execution of maintenance of the new drainage network for a period of 2 years.




                                               - 16 -

4       Bank and Borrower Performance
4.1     Bank Performance
4.1.1 Lending

The Bank's performance in the lending phase is assessed overall as satisfactory.            During
identification, the task team ensured the project objectives were supportive of the CAS and the
country's overall development goals. The design of the project also ensured that the project
components were supportive of the objectives of the project and could be for the most part
implemented in an effective manner.

4.1.2 Supervision

The performance of the Bank in supervision was broadly satisfactory.            The skill mix of
supervision staff was appropriate. Including a mid-term review, a total of 12 supervisory missions
visited Belize during the 5 years of project implementation.

Interaction between the Bank and GOB was frequent during implementation; these interactions
helped to address procurement issues such as compliance with loan conditions and review of
formal audits.

Close cooperation and open dialogue between the Bank and MOWT increased ownership and
coordination and enabled timely responses to GOB needs, on most occasions.

A few issues arose during the performance. The first was that more attention could perhaps have
been paid to institutional development in view of past experiences and the difficulty in getting the
MOWT commitment to take action on recommendations emanating from the technical assistance
and studies.

A second issue concerned the programming and procurement of individual contracts. Originally a
staggered implementation of drainage contracts was programmed. This idea was accepted as
prudent for it would have ensured that contracts were shared among a pool of qualified
contractors and that one company wouldn't be able to "win" more than one contract. The
MOWT and implementing agency felt this program was ambitious for it assumed; bid evaluation,
verification of errors, acceptance of offer by successful bidder, and award of contract within a
short time before the opening of bids for another drainage contact. Since these actions depended
on cooperation between many groups (contractor, implementing agency, consultant, Bank and
multiple government ministries), the implementing agency recommended that the period between
staggering of contracts be lengthened, however the Bank didn't accept this recommendation. As
a result the staggered implementation program could not be met and more than one bidder was
awarded multiple contracts as allowed by the Contract Documents.

The final issue arose in conjunction with the Bank's handling of the second extension of the loan
closing date. The Bank agreed only to a 6 month extension from March 31, 2005 to September
30, 2005 whereas the GOB had requested 1 year, which was the time GOB estimated was
required to complete the proposed additional drainage works for Corozal and Orange Walk. The
additional works were intended to be financed out of the loan proceeds freed up by the


                                               - 17 -

cancellation of the road maintenance pilot project. These works could not be financed out of the
loan and were not in fact carried out. The GOB accepted this decision, however thought it would
have been more beneficial to the country if the additional works were implemented.

4.1.3 Overall Bank Performance:

Overall the Bank's performance is assessed as satisfactory.

4.2     Borrower
4.2.1 Preparation:

The Borrower's and Implementing Agency's performance is rated overall as satisfactory. The
Borrower participated fully in all project preparatory activities and financed much of the required
work through its own resources.

4.2.2 Government implementation performance:

The Government performance is assessed overall as broadly satisfactory. The Government of
Belize made sensible and well thought out decisions in important areas which facilitated timely
implementation of project components. Some of these include maintaining an adequately staffed
PEU, facilitating feasibility and design of drainage systems through the procurement of
consultants and carrying out efficient selection of contractors within programmed constraints.

Most key performance indicators have met the targets for the project and the areas where
projections were forecasted have also been satisfied.

With strengthening project planning, implementation and monitoring by GOB and technical staff,
we were able to achieve project objectives.

4.2.3 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementation agency is assessed as satisfactory.          The PEU was
established to provide project management services to all capital development projects under the
Ministry of Works & Transport; this therefore includes the Bank funded project. The Director of
the PEU was the Project Manager for the Belize Municipal Drainage Project. As the main
implementing agency the PEU effectively executed all contract payments, variation orders land
issues, utility diversions and other pertinent issues during the project.

Procurement procedures used by the PEU were in accordance with Bank guidelines.                The
procurement of Contractors was delayed on some occasions due to restrictions imposed by GOB,
as a result the implementing agency couldn't comply with agreed procurement dates (most
recently is the delayed procurement of the Benque Viejo del Carmen works).

4.2.4 Overall Borrower performance:
In general the implementation of the RMDP proceeded well and the Borrower's performance is
assessed as satisfactory.

5       Lessons learned

During project preparation and execution one of the first lessons learned concerned the



                                                  - 18 -

programming and procurement of individual contracts. Originally a staggered implementation of
drainage contracts was recommended by the Bank. The MOWT as implementing agency felt that
this program was too ambitious and recommended that the period between staggering of
contracts be lengthened; the Bank didn't accept this recommendation. As a result the staggered
implementation program could not be met. The implementing agency should have been more
practical in their agreements on programming of contract execution.

Another lesson learned early on was that not enough attention was paid to the implementation of
institutional development reforms. These reforms should address specific objectives and should
have target implementation dates committed to by the Borrower. By doing this more `real'
improvements can be realized during the course of the project.

Infrastructure projects would generally benefit from more explicit and early attention to
maintenance. Institutional and especially financing measures need to perhaps be specifically
written into the loan agreement such that maintenance resources can be secured prior to project
completion and loan closure. To further expand on the sustainability, allocations could also be
made for the training of personnel and provision of maintenance resources to municipalities with
the requirement of them to report on maintenance activities for inclusion into the MMS at the
MOWT.

Careful attention should be paid, during the design phase, to practically addressing the needs of
each municipality. The PEU observed that perhaps the same drainage schemes were applied to all
municipalities.

6        Recommendations

One area of reform that ought to be addressed is the division of responsibilities without the
requisite authority. For example, the implementation agency is held responsible for delaying
procurement of contracts against an agreed program while in reality the implementation agency
cannot procure contracts without the `no objection' from Central Government.           When the
Borrower is given an unsatisfactory rating the issue of what specific agency was responsible
became blurred.

Concerning the sustainability of infrastructure projects, the Maintenance Management System
could be expanded to include scheduling of maintenance (especially periodic maintenance) for
drainage infrastructure assets such as canals and other structures. By doing so both the MOWT
and the local municipality government can schedule maintenance and shift it to become
`preventative' rather than `reactionary'.

Infrastructure should focus on addressing more practically the specific needs of the municipalities;
this should be included during the design phase. In Dangriga Town for example greater success
could have been achieved by using lined drains rather than earthen drains. The relatively flat,
low-lying terrain meant that the accumulation of silt began instantly and maintenance of these
drains becomes more frequent and thus more expensive; due to their size and depth heavy
machinery is sometimes required to achieve the desired maintenance. In other well-drained towns
such as Orange Walk, earthen drains are more effective. Since floods are less frequent, vegetation



                                               - 19 -

can grow within the drains, when floods do occur this vegetation can protect against erosion yet
allow the water to drain relatively easy; maintenance as well is limited to chopping, which is
relatively low cost.

Through analysis of the performance of Belize's National Emergency Management Organization's
response to threats from tropical storms and hurricanes since the completion of the Burrell Boom
bypass, it is apparent that the added benefit of the upgraded route to the evacuation of Belize City
and other low-lying areas is invaluable. It allows for alternative routes of egress as well as
alternative routes for the provision of emergency aid after the storm passes. In the future projects
of this nature can serve as a useful instrument for building up hurricane response; therefore
mitigation measures with respect to hurricane preparedness should be taken into account when
reviewing design parameters.

With regard to the Maintenance by Contract Pilot Project carried out under the Southern
Highway Upgrading Project, funded by the IADB, participation by small, local contracting and
maintenance firms showed that response to maintenance requirements was swift and effective.
Through lessons learned on that pilot project, the capacity for management of those small
maintenance contracts exists and can easily be reinforced to improve efficiency and effectiveness.
It is believed that private sector capacity (as in the number of registered contractors) can meet the
demand of maintenance contracts as long as such contracts become a long-term commitment of
the Government, this would require, perhaps, a shift in budgetary allocations since most
maintenance work continues to be carried out using force account.

7       Accountability and Transparency

During the 5 years of project implementation in compliance with the loan conditions, four formal
audits were carried out by reputable accounting firms. The first two audits were carried out by
Deloitte & Touche, the third by KPMG Chartered Accountants and the most recent one by
Pannell Kerr Forster, a final audit is expected to be carried out at the final close of the Project.
All audits are testament to sound bookkeeping practices and transparent project management by
the implementing agency. Through these audits it is confirmed that all expenses were well within
budget, despite some implementation setbacks.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 20 -

 Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators

Indicator/Matrix                                     Projected in last PSR              Actual Latest/Estimate
More than 10% traffic volume increase after the       10% traffic volume increase       22% annually since 2002
Burrell Boom Road works completed (reference          expected to be exceeded
1999)
More than 15% reduction in the vehicle operating      15% reduction of VOC or higher    62.5% reduction in vehicle
cost on Burrell Boom Road (reference 1999)            expected to be achieved according operating cost
                                                      to completion report
20-30 minutes travel time reduction to access to the 20-30 minutes travel time          20-40 minutes travel time
airport from the western region by using upgraded reduction depending on traffic        reduction depending on traffic
Burrell Boom Rd. instead of going through Belize      condition                         condition and the direction
City
From the proposed drainage improvements, more         Dangriga ex-post analysis carried 11% to 25% increase in property
than 10% increase in value of the properties          out in April 2005 suggests a      value, with an assumed average of
benefiting from project one year after the project is 20-25% increase in property value 15%, based on a more complete
completed                                                                               assessment taken covering all six
                                                                                        towns
Under the road maintenance pilot program, the         Under the IADB funded project:    Under the IADB project:
length of the road network maintained by the private 111.3 km periodic maintenance;     111.3km periodic maintenance;
sector increased by 120km                             94.5km of routine maintenance;    94.5km of routine maintenance;
                                                      and,                              and,
                                                      138.15km of micro-maintenance     138.15km of micro-maintenance
Implementing the TA Component, MOWTC's                Five year development plan under Five year development plan under
planning and programming capacity to improve, as preparation                            preparation
evidenced through the preparation of the five year
development plans for the transport sector




                                                         - 21 -

 Output Indicators

Indicator/Matrix                                   Projected in last PSR             Actual Latest/Estimate
The completed road and bridge meets agree highway Pavement roughness is now 2        Pavement roughness is now 2
standards as evidenced by the reduction in pavement
roughness index from 8 to 2
Upgraded Burrell Boom Rd. and bridges would        60 km per hour is obtainable, in  60km per hour is obtainable, in the
allow the increase in the vehicle speed from 30km  the fair weather condition- 100% fair weather condition- 100%
per hour to 50km per hour                          increase                          increase
Improve environmental awareness through the        Yes, programs carried out in each Yes, programs carried out in each
implementation of an awareness program             of the six municipalities covered of the six municipalities covered
                                                   by the project as contributed to  by the project as contributed to
                                                   environment awareness             environment awareness
Private sector in road maintenance works increased 7 private sector contractors      8 private sector contractors
the number of registered contractors doubled from 7
at the start of the pilot to the completion
National Transport sector and Road Safety          Studies were completed in 2004.   Studies were completed in 2004.
strategies reports drafted and approved            Implementation is under review    Implementation is under review

Transport Sector database completed and operationalCurrent transport database is     Current transport database is
                                                   limited to RIMS (Roughton         limited to RIMS (Roughton
                                                   International Maintenance         International Maintenance
                                                   Management System). Study         Management System). Study
                                                   completed under Institutional     completed under Institutional
                                                   component and is being reviewed component and is being reviewed




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal
       Project component            Appraisal      Actual   Percentage of
                                                             Appraisal
1. Roads/Bridges Works                7.40          9.58        130
2. Maintenance Pilot Project          1.00          0.00         0
3. Drainage works                     5.00          5.63        113
4. TA, Studies, Engineering           2.61          3.06        117
Service and Training
5. Goods                              0.15          0.01         5
Total Baseline Cost                  16.16          18.28       113
Physical Contingencies (10% on        1.34           -           -
on 1,2,3)
Price contingencies (4.7% of          0.76           -           -
Baseline cost)
       Total Project Costs           18.26          18.28       100


 Front-end fee (1%)                   0.13          0.13        100
 Total Financing Required            18.39          18.41       101




                                         - 23 -

Project Costs by procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Appraisal
                         ICB        NCB        Other         NBF        Total
1. Works
BB Bypass & Bridge        8.48                                           8.48
                         (5.50)                                         (5.50)


Road Maintenance                     1.15                                1.15
                                    (0.75)                              (0.75)


Drainage System
                          1.50       4.23                                5.73
                         (0.97)     (2.75)                              (3.72)


2. Goods & Material                  0.10       0.06                     0.16
                                    (0.10)     (0.06)                   (0.16)


3. Consultant Services                          2.74                     2.74
                                               (2.74)                   (2.74)


4. Front-end Fee                                0.13                     0.13
                                               (0.13)                   (0.13)


Total                     9.98       5.48       2.93                    18.39
                         (6.47)     (3.60)     (2.93)                   (13.0)




                                        - 24 -

Project Costs by procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
Actual
                         ICB        NCB        Other         NBF        Total
1. Works
BB Bypass & Bridge        9.58                                           9.58
                         (5.63)                                         (5.63)


Road Maintenance                     0.00                                0.00
                                    (0.00)                              (0.00)


Drainage System           4.74       0.89                                5.63
                         (3.07)     (0.56)                              (3.63)



2. Goods & Materials
(computers)                          0.01                                0.01
                                   (0.007)                             (0.007)
3. Consultant Services
                                                 3.06                    3.06
                                               (3.06)                   (3.06)


4. Front-end Fee                                0.13                     0.13
                                               (0.13)                   (0.13)


Total                    14.32       0.90       3.16                    18.41
                         (8.70)     (0.56)     (3.16)                  (12.42)




                                        - 25 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

   Component       Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                           Estimate          Appraisal
      Works        Bank Govt. CoF Bank Govt. CoF Bank Govt. CoF
Upgrading the
National Road
Network
(a) Burrell Boom    5.00  2.40   0.00 5.63    3.05  0.00  113  127      -
Road
(b) Burrell Boom    0.50  0.00   0.00 0.00    0.94  0.00   0     -      -
bridge
Road maintenance    0.75  0.25   0.00 0.00    0.00  0.00   0    0       -
Pilot Project
Drainage            3.72  1.28   0.00 3.63    2.00  0.00  98   156
Improvements
Institutional       2.74  0.00   0.00 3.06    0.00  0.00  112    -      -
Strength/Capacity
Building
Goods               0.16  0.00   0.00 0.007  0.001  0.00   4     -      -
Total project Costs 12.87 5.39   0.00 12.31   5.99  0.00  96   112      -
Front-end fee       0.13  0.00   0.00 0.13    0.00  0.00  100    -      -
Total               13.00 5.39   0.00 12.44   5.99  0.00  96   112      -




                                          - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The project included road rehabilitation (52% of total cost) drainage improvement (31%) and
institutional strengthening (15%) that individually and collectively were expected to provide a
wide range of benefits to Belize. Using similar approach as in appraisal, the economic benefits to
be derived from the two principal components (roads and drainage improvements) have been
analyzed individually.

The main benefits for the physical investments in Burrell Boom Bypass road/bridge improvements
are the savings to be made by road users in vehicle operating costs, passenger time costs and
accident costs. An economic analysis was done for the rehabilitation of the Burrell Boom/bridge
improvement which represents over 50 percent of the total project costs. The post-construction
Net Present Value of Burrell Boom Bypass/Bridge is estimated BZ$21.097 million compared to
BZ$17.49 million at appraisal. The post construction ERR estimate is 27% compared to 22.6%.
Accident reduction benefits were excluded from consideration because of lack of reliable data.

The ex-post analysis of the drainage component identifies a wide range of quantifiable and
qualitative benefits and confirms the appraisal assessment that the project should have been
undertaken. The ex-ante cost benefit analysis identified an NPV of BZ$5.26 million and an ERR
of 32.9%, with about 70% of the quantifiable benefits coming from an assumption of an increase
in property values of 18% attributable over the course of the project. The ex-post analysis carried
out by GOB suggests that the property value improvements may have averaged 15% (for the first
year only). Of this amount, only 20% is imputed as a benefit to the project. On the basis of these
assumptions the NPV is negative. The results are however highly sensitive to the proportion of
the property value increase imputed to the project, and reasonable people could disagree as to
what the percentage ought to be. The Bank estimated that if one third of the increase is imputed,
NPV would be zero at an ERR of 12%. If 100% were imputed the ERR would be 114%.

A.       Burrell Boom Road/Bridge Improvement

Project Costs

Construction and maintenance costs. The total construction expenditure of BZ$19.78 million
was distributed over three year period with 22.5%, 47.5% and 30.0% respectively. The financial
costs for routine maintenance and periodic maintenance are shown below. The conversion factor
of financial cost to economic value is 0.8.




                                              - 27 -

Table 1: Maintenance Unit Costs

                   Operation                           Financial Cost
Cost per km BZ$/km                                         2,826
Resealing BZ$/km                                           54,400
Pot hole patching & crack sealing, $/m2                      39

Project Benefits

Traffic Count. The post-construction traffic estimate is based on traffic counts made in August
and November 2004 and in February 2005. These traffic counts were made seven days a week
during the above months. Traffic counts were aggregated into light and heavy vehicle traffic.
However, for analysis purpose the traffic count was disaggregated by type of vehicle. In the initial
three years following opening up of the road to traffic, aggregate traffic grew at an average of
22% per annum much more than the anticipated rate of 10%. The 2005 traffic volume based on
traffic count is estimated to be 1268vpd for section 1 and 974vpd for section 2. Future traffic
growth is assumed to grow from 2005 levels at annual rate of 5% for the economic life of the
project.

The project's main benefits are the savings to be made by road users in vehicle operating costs,
passenger time costs and accident costs.

Vehicle Operating Cost savings. Net benefits due to savings in VOC were computed using
Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4). Savings in VOC result due to
improvement in surface condition from IRI=8 to IRI=2. The resultant savings for each vehicle
type are presented in the Table 2.

Travel time Savings. The net benefits due to travel time savings are calculated based on driver
wage per hour, crew wage per hour, passenger work time value, non-working time value. The
benefits are aggregated as value of occupant time in BZ$/hr. for each vehicle type as shown in
Table 2.

Accident saving. Accident records do not permit a detail analysis of the accident history of the
road. The base case assumes an average accident cost per fatality of BZ$1 million, incorporating
all lesser injury and property damage accident. Savings in accident savings are not included in the
cost-benefit analysis due to lack of available data, but would certainly be non-negative.




                                                - 28 -

Table 2: Main Parameters of Benefit Analysis

    Type of Vehicle          Traffic     VOC Savings          Vehicle        Value of    Accident
                           Distribution     (BZ$/km)          Speed         Travel Time
                                                             (Km/hr)         Savings
                                                                             (BZ$/hr)
Private car                    23%            0.188              55           14.731        N/A
Pick-up                        23%            0.141              50           25.284        N/A
Van 4x4                        26%             0.15              50           16.606        N/A
Minibus                         6%            0.156              50           32.088        N/A
Large bus                       5%            0.218              45          100.386        N/A
Light Truck 4-wheel             8%            0.178              50           17.651        N/A
Medium Truck                    4%            0.253              45            15.2         N/A
8-wheel
Heavy Truck 3-axle              3%            0.337              40            19.2         N/A
Heavy Truck 4-axle              1%            0.418              40            19.2         N/A
Total                          100%                                                         N/A

Cost Benefit Analysis

Assumptions. The discount rate was set to 12% and the evaluation period to 20 years after
completion of construction. Maintenance and rehabilitation costs were estimated in financial and
economic terms (net of taxes), economic costs being on average 80% of financial costs. Vehicle
fleet characteristics and economic unit costs were defined for eight vehicle classes as noted above.


Table 3: Burrell Boom Road/Bridge NPV and ERR Estimates

                                                    NPV (BZ$)           ERR (%)
Burrell Boom Bypass/bridge (19.2 km)                    21.097             27%

Table 4 presents the distribution of the project benefits which indicate that 70 percent of the
project benefits are due to a reduction of passenger time mainly due to a significant reduction in
travel time, 30 percent is due to the contribution of vehicle operating costs; and accident savings
is not included in the benefit analysis due to lack of reliable statistics.




                                                 - 29 -

Table 4: Distribution of Net Benefits

                                                     NPV           Percent
                                                     (BZ$)           (%)
Increase in road agency costs                        14.168          29%
Decrease in vehicle operating costs                  14.436          30%
Decrease in passanger time costs                     33.247          70%
Decrease in accident costs                              -              -
Net society benefits (NPV)                           21.097          44%

Sensitivity analysis

Table 5 presents the results of the sensitivity analysis eliminating accident benefits, eliminating
passenger time savings, increasing costs and decreasing benefits. The results show that a 20%
increase in the maintenance cost does not change the NPV or the ERR estimates for the base
case; while a 20% reduction in benefits reduces the NPV to BZ$27.755 million and the ERR to
22%.

Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis

                                                          NPV                 Percent
                                                         (BZ$)                  (%)
Base case                                                21.097                 27%
Maintenance Cost +20%                                    21.097                 27%
Benefits -20%                                            16.234                 22%
Impact of both changes                                   16.234                 22%

B.     Drainage Economic Analysis

Cost of construction

Project costs are the out-turn costs for each of the sub-projects, there were seven contracts for
the works. The economic cost is estimated at 80% of the financial cost in each case.

Table 1: Construction Cost

                                                       Cost, BZ$
Benque                                                  1,739,370
Corozal                                                 1,010,649
Dangriga                                                6,153,119
Orange Walk                                              964,245
Punta Gorda                                              557,613
San Ignacio                                              826,394




                                               - 30 -

Benefits

The benefits which were quantified in the appraisal estimate were: residual values; drain
maintenance savings; street cleaning savings; road maintenance savings; increase property values;
improved accessibility and time savings; mosquito control savings; medical treatment savings; and
savings in loss of economic output due to reduced illness. Increased property values were the
principal driver at between 70% and 87% of the quantified benefits.

In the re-estimate of GOB however only the following were quantified ­ employment creation;
property value increase (one fifth attributable to better drainage); savings in travel time; savings in
flood clean up costs. There are a variety of other benefits mentioned - from tourism, economic
development - but these are not expected to be realized in the near future.

The analysis uses a 10% discount rate and an assumed economic life of 20 years. Shadow price of
labor set at 0.9.

The re-estimate assumes one-off adjustment in house prices one year after drainage works
completed (this differs from the PAD which assumed a gradual shift in values over a number of
years). The population (7,740) and number of houses "affected" by the drainage improvements
are estimated for each town. Housing is divided into low, medium and high value units, the same
assumption on plot size and construction cost holding for each town (see Table 2).

Table 2: Beneficiaries of Drainage -People and Properties

                               People      Properties      Low Value       Medium         High Value
                            Benefiting                        74 m2      Value 93 m2         139 m2
                                                           BZ$38/m2       BZ$807/m2 BZ$1076/m2
                                                               (%)            (%)              (%)
Benque                          1,008          185              30             50               20
Corozal                         3,330          545              30             65               5
Dangriga                        2,066          450              60             35               5
Orange Walk                      216            42              10             65               25
Punta Gorda                      100            22              10             30               60
San Ignacio                     1020           204              20             60               20
The same construction costs and plot sizes are assumed to apply to each town.

The actual property value increase suggested by consultants are on average 15%: 14% in Benque;
11% in Orange Walk; 20% in Punta Gorda; and 16% in San Ignacio; with no specific data
provided for the other towns. Note however that a separate analysis carried out by a Bank
consultant in April 2005 suggests for Dangriga property value increase of the order of 20-25%.
The ex-post analysis casts doubts on the validity of attributing all of the observed property prices
increases to the drainage improvements. The property market is not well developed and it is
difficult in a "before and after" analysis to identify what premium if any applies to drainage
improvements. An estimate of 20% of the property price increase observed is imputed to the
project as a benefit, but it is acknowledged that there is no strong analytical basis for picking this


                                                 - 31 -

number as opposed to any other.

The ex-post analysis finally assumes no savings in maintenance and regular cleaning costs. The
evidence from experience it is suggested as ambiguous as to whether lined drains really do save
on maintenance costs. The total quantifiable benefits are given thus.

Table 3: Total Quantifiable Benefits

                               Employment      Property      Value of Lost  Clean Up
                               Effects (total    Value       Time due to      Cost
                               construction     Increase       Flooding    Reduction
                                  period)
Benque                            123,761       429,333         284,335       95,761
Corozal                           191,056      1,159,878        915,628       80,673
Dangriga                         1,392,314      813,689       1,200,576      186,142
Orange Walk                      1,066,551       91,931          58,993       21,315
Punta Gorda                       111,385       105,661          27,516       11,165
San Ignacio                       210,394       561,117         274,000       69,021

Cost benefit results

Table 4: NPV and ERR Estimates (at 20% of the increase in property values, GOB
estimates)

                               NPV (BZ$) at 10%        ERR (%)
                                     discount
Benque                                -768732              -7
Corozal                               983605               28
Dangriga                             -2688365              -8
Orange Walk                           -593651             -12
Punta Gorda                           -275870              -7
San Ignacio                           176882               20
Total                                -3343013          undefined

The ex-post analysis reflecting all the assumptions made in regard to the valuation of benefits
given above results in viability demonstrated only in two towns, Corozal and San Ignacio.

The Bank views this as a defendable if rather conservative approach. Accordingly the results were
tested on the basis of two alternative hypotheses in regard to the imputation of the property
increase to the benefit stream, i.e. imputation of 100% of the increase; determining the level of
increase necessary to obtain an NPV of zero. If the total actual property value are attributed to
the drainage investment, the estimate for NPV and ERR would be BZ$7,331,090 million and
114% respectively. Just over one third of the property price increase would have to be attributed
in order to obtain an NPV of zero.



                                               - 32 -

Table 5: NPV and ERR Estimates (alternative hypotheses, Bank estimates)

                                            NPV (BZ$)        ERR (%)
Benque                                        373165             46
Corozal                                       4725101            745
Dangriga                                      1114626            40
Orange Walk                                   -231685            -26
Punta Gorda                                   -116286            -21
San Ignacio                                   1446349            286
Total                                         7311090            114
At 34.056% property value increase               0               12%




                                        - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/30/1998                4    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (1); SENIOR
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              06/11/1998                5    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TECHNICAL
                                             EVALUATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); CONSULTANTS (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/12/1999                5    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                                             (1); CONSULTANT
                                             (ROADS) (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             TECHNICAL
                                             EVALUATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              11/22/1999                4    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (ROADS) (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); TECHNICAL
                                             EVALUATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              01/07/2000                1    FINANCIAL                        S               S
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              01/14/2000                9    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);        S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (ROADS) (1);
                                             DRAINAGE EXPERT -
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); TECHNICAL
                                             EVALUATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (2); URBAN SPECIALIST (1)
              10/19/2000                4    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);        S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (ROADS) (1);
                                             TECHNICAL EVALUATION


                                              - 34 -

                      SPECIALIST (1); TECHNICAL
                      EXPERT (1)
      02/06/2001    5 SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);    S    S
                      TECHNICAL EVALUATION
                      SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                      MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST (1);
                      CONSULTANT (ROADS) (1)
      06/25/2001    3 SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);    S    S
                      DRAINAGE EXPERT-
                      CONSULTANT (1); SOILS
                      EXPERT-CONSULTANT (1)
      06/30/2001    2 FINANCIAL ANALIST (1);       S    S
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      12/13/2001    4 SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);    S    S
                      TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                      DRAINAGE SPECIALIST -
                      CONSULTANT (1); SOILS
                      EXPERT -CONSULTANT (1)
      11/01/2002    4 DRAINAGE SPECIALIST (1);     S    S
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST (1); TRANSPORT
                      ECONOMIST (1);
                      PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                      (1)
      06/09/2003    1 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                      SPECIALIST (1)
      12/05/2003    2 SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);    S    S
                      DRAINAGE EXPERT -
                      CONSULTANT (1)
      05/25/2004    1 DRAINAGE EXPERT -            S    S
                      CONSULTANT (1)
      11/10/2004    3 LEAD HIGHWAY ENGINEER        S    S
                      (1); DRAINAGE SPECIALIST
                      (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST (1)

ICR
      09/02/2005    3 LEAD TRANSPORT               S    S
                      SPECIALIST (1) ;
                      ENVIRONMENTAL
                      SPECIALIST (1);
                      ECONOMIC
                      CONSULTANT (1)




                      - 35 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            32.1                         106.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                40.51                        162.95
  Supervision                          62.78                         399.8
  ICR                                     3.2                          29.4
  Total                              138.59                         698.65




                                            - 36 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The World Bank, Roads and Municipal Drainage Project, Project Appraisal Document, June 16,
2000.

The World Bank, Supervision Reports, 2001-2005.

Ministry of Works Transport and Communications, GOB. Roads and Municipal Drainage
Project, Drainage Management & Planning Study. Municipalization Plan (Olga Samper
Rodriguez), May 2004.

Ministry of Works Transport and Communications, GOB. Burrell Boom Road Upgrading
Project, Project Completion Report, May 2003 (Halcrow Group Ltd.).

Ministry of Works Transport and Communications, GOB. Muncipal Drainage Project
Completion Report, October 2004 (Halcrow Group Ltd.).

Ministry of Works Transport and Communications, GOB. Institutional Development Strategy
Report, May 2004 (Halcrow Group Ltd.).

Ministry of Works Transport and Communications, GOB. Routine & Periodic Maintenance by
Contract, Pilot Project Completion Report, Funded by Inter American Development Bank
(IADB).

Ministry of Works, GOB. Municipal Roads and Drainage Project, Technical Assistance for
Planning and Land Use Support, Final report: Development Plan, Manual of Form and content
(Francisco Londoño, Consultant, Tunic Nah Consultants, Engineering), August 2004.




                                             - 39 -

- 40 -

