Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4575-BEL
Loan Agreement
(Roads and Municipal Drainage Project)
between
BELIZE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 8, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4575-BEL
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 2000, between BELIZE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (d) is added to Section 3.04 to read:
"If the Bank shall at any time receive less than the full amount then 
due and payable to it under the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall have the right 
Page  2
to allocate and apply the amount so received in any manner and for such 
purposes under the Loan Agreement as the Bank shall in its sole discretion 
determine."
(b)
Section 11.01 is modified by replacing, in the second sentence, the word 
"radiogram" with the word "facsimile" and adding a new sentence at the end of the said 
Section to read:
"Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Belize Dollar" means the Borrower’s currency;
(b)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for works, goods and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Environment Management Plan" means the Borrower’s plan for the 
monitoring, mitigation and institutional measures to be taken during the 
implementation of the Project, as set forth in an annex in the Implementation Letter 
(as defined hereinafter);
(e)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on April 1 and 
ending on March 31 each year; 
(f)
"Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank which sets forth:  (i) the Project monitoring indicators referred 
to in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; (ii) the PIP; (iii) the Environmental 
Management Plan; (iv) the scope of the mid-term review referred to in Section 3.05 (e) 
of this Agreement; and (v) a list of the individual drainage civil works referred to 
in Part C of the Project;
(g) 
"Maintenance Department" means the Borrower’s road maintenance department 
within MOWT (as defined hereinafter); 
(h)
 "Maintenance Pilot Project" means the Borrower’s pilot project set forth 
in Part B of the Project;
(i)
"MOWT" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Works and Transportation;
(j)
"Operational Manual" means the Borrower’s operational manual referred to 
in Section 3.09 of this Agreement;
(k)
"PEU" means the Borrower’s Project execution unit within the MOWT;
(l)
"PIP" means the Borrower’s Project implementation plan for the Project 
set forth in an annex to the Implementation Letter;  
(m)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(o)
"TCC" means the Borrower’s Transportation Coordination Committee referred 
Page  3
to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to thirteen 
million Dollars (US$13,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Page  4
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower’s Minister of Works and Transportation, and any 
person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and 
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MOWT with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, 
engineering, and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) provide in its annual budget and make 
available, in Belize Dollars equivalent, promptly as needed for each Fiscal Year, 
throughout implementation of the Project: (A) the counterpart funds for the Project, 
satisfactory to the Bank; (B) the funds necessary for its road maintenance obligations 
within the Borrower’s territory; (C) the funds necessary to adequately maintain the 
drainage work carried out under Part C of the Project; and (iii) furnish to the Bank a 
copy of the Borrower’s approved annual budget for each Fiscal Year throughout 
implementation of the Project, not later than 30 days after the date of such approval 
by the Borrower’s House of Representatives.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
Page  5
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators set forth in the 
Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about 30 days after the conclusion of each calendar quarter 
throughout the course of Project implementation, starting as of December 30, 2000, the 
report referred to in Section 4.02 to this Agreement, and not later than February 28 
of each year throughout implementation of the Project, starting in 2001, review 
jointly with the Bank the progress made by the Borrower.  Such report shall integrate 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and shall set out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Bank,  no later than 30 days after receipt of the report 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, said report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.   
(d)
As part of the annual review mentioned in the paragraph (b) above, the 
Bank may require the Borrower to prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
with the adjustments necessary for the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date. In such 
event, the Borrower shall not later than 45 days after the conclusion of each such 
review, or such later date as the Bank shall request, furnish to the Bank said action 
plan, and shall thereafter carry out or cause to be carried out, such action plan in 
accordance with its terms.
(e)
As part of the annual review referred to in paragraph (b) above for the 
year 2002, the Borrower shall carry out, in consultation with the Bank, a mid-term 
Project implementation review in accordance with the terms of reference set forth in 
the Implementation Letter.   
Section 3.06. For the purposes of the implementation of Part B of the Project, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than November 30, 2000, issue the bidding documents of the 
biding process referred to in Part B of the Project, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b) 
not later than 30 days before the contract referred to in paragraph (a) 
above enters into force, select and thereafter contract an entity responsible for the 
supervision and control of the execution of said contract, with functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of the implementation of Part D of the Project, 
the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain and strengthen  the Transport Coordination Committee (TCC), with 
a membership and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, and ensure that it  
actively participates in the Borrower’s: (i) coordination of transport activities; 
(ii) development of a national transport sector strategy, transport data base, and 
national road safety strategy to be developed under Part D of the Project; and (iii) 
development of other transport related activities in the Borrower’s territory;
(b)
 exchange views with the Bank on any proposed modification to the 
membership, functions or responsibilities of the TCC; and 
(c)
prior to implementing any such proposed modification,  take into account 
the views of the Bank thereon.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall strengthen and maintain a Project execution 
unit (PEU), within MOWT, with sufficient and qualified staff (including a senior 
Project officer, a junior engineer, and an assistant accountant), functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, such unit to assist the MOWT in the 
Page  6
execution of the Project, and in particular, to ensure appropriate coordination, 
supervision of procurement and financial management of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall strengthen the PEU with the assistance of an external 
auditor of qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, operating under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to provide key instruments 
for the execution and coordination of the Project, including procurement and financial 
management procedures, the PIP, and the Environmental Management Plan.
(b)
As part of the Operational Manual, the Borrower shall carry out, or shall 
cause to be carried out the Environmental Management Plan, in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall include covenants satisfactory to the Bank, in 
any contract for works under the Project, requiring that the works contractor, upon 
unearthing or locating any structure or artifacts of cultural, historical, 
archeological or paleontological significance, shall bring them to the attention of 
the authorities, shall suspend work in the area in question and shall fully comply 
with any instructions from such authorities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  7
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. Not later than December 30, 2000, the Borrower shall prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for 
such period, which:
(a) 
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report; and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets.
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as of the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date March 8, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Economic Development
New Administration Building
Belmopan, Belize
Telex:
Facsimile:
225 Monetary Bz
501-823673
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  8
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BELIZE
By /s/ Ralph Fonseca
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
(a) under Parts A and   8,060,000 65%
C of the Project
(b) under Part B of
  650,000
65%
       the Project
(2)
Goods
        150,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures
(3)
Consultants'
      2,610,000
100% 
services and training
(4)
Fee
        130,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
      1,400,000
Page  9
TOTAL
     13,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "training" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in 
connection with the carrying out of training activities under the Project, including 
travel costs and per diem of the trainees, rental of facilities and equipment, and 
training materials. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,300,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
April 15, 1999; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) (a) above, 
unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, that the Borrower 
shall have acquired all required environmental and mangrove clearing permits and 
authorizations to construct in the area affected by Parts A and C of the Project shall 
have been issued by the appropriate authorities.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) works under contracts costing less than $1,000,000 
equivalent; (c) consultant services of firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (d) individual consultant services of firms under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent; and (e) training, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in 
its central bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Page  10
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal to or exceed 
the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
Page  11
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $2,600,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve traffic flows on the national 
road network of Belize; (b) to assess the potential of private sector participation in 
road maintenance activities in Belize; (c) to improve the natural drainage in selected 
Belizean municipalities; and (d) to improve the management of the transport sector in 
Belize.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Burrell Boom Road Improvement
Carrying out of civil works for the Burrell Boom Road which connects the 
Page  12
Borrower’s Northern Highway with the Borrower’s Western Highway bypassing Belize City, 
through: (i) the upgrading of the existing gravel road to a two lane asphalt road; 
(ii) the construction of a new diversion road to bypass the village of Burrell Boom; 
and (iii) the upgrading of the Burrell Boom bridge.  
Part B:
Road Maintenance Pilot Project 
Carrying out of  a pilot project for road maintenance, said pilot project to 
provide for the contracting out of road maintenance activities for a selected portion 
of the Borrower’s road network, through a competitive bidding.
Part C:
Drainage Improvement in selected Municipalities 
Carrying out of civil works, listed in the Implementation Letter, necessary to 
provide an adequate drainage system and to reduce floodings and their impact, in the 
municipalities of Punta Gorda, Dangriga, Benque Viejo, San Ignacio/Santa Elena, Orange 
Walk, and Corozal. 
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening and Supervision
1.
Development of a national transport strategy and transport data base, and a 
national road safety strategy, with the participation of the TCC, and the provision of 
the goods necessary for the carrying out of this Part of the Project.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to MOWT for: (a) the supervision of the works 
carried out under Parts A, B, and C of the Project; (b) the preparation of a 
feasibility study and final engineering for the works carried out under Part C of the 
Project; (c) the preparation of a municipal drainage maintenance management plan; (d) 
the preparation of zoning and urban development guidelines; (e) the preparation of 
studies relating to the protection of environmentally sensitive areas, such as the Gra 
Gra Lagoon area, including the carrying out of a public awareness program; (f) the 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan for Parts A, B and C of the 
Project; and (g) the design and implementation of the Maintenance Pilot Project, 
including: (i) the development of road maintenance financing options; (ii) the 
training of selected contractors; (iii) the provision of goods necessary for the 
efficient implementation and supervision of this Part D.2 (g) of the Project; and (iv) 
the strengthening of the Maintenance Department.   
3.
Provision of training programs for MOWT staff.
4.
Strengthening the capacity of the PEU through the addition of qualified staff 
and the provision of goods necessary for the efficient implementation and supervision 
of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2006
540,000
through October 15, 2017
On April 15, 2017
580,000
Page  13
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for Part A of the Project shall be prequalified in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, computer equipment and office 
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or 
more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Page  14
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,500,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $60,000 equivalent, and which are not procured under 
grouped contracts, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured in accordance with Parts B.1 and 
C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts to be procured in accordance with 
the procedures referred to in C.2 above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  15
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for transport and safety strategy, road 
maintenance, environmental protection, urban zoning development, design of drainage 
works, construction supervision, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount of $300,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for the detailed design of drainage works carried out under Part C of 
the Project, which are estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, under contracts each estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or 
less, up to an aggregate amount of $190,000 equivalent, shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  16
