                                  Documentof
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No.: 44249




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                    BELIZE

                ROADS AND MUNICIPAL DRAINAGE PROJECT

                              (LOAN 4575-BEL)




                                  June 23,2008




Sector Evaluations Division
Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)

Currency Equivalents

Currency Unit = BelizeDollar, BZ$
2000 (January)        US$l=BZ$2.00
2007 (September)      US$1=BZ$2.00

Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DfID          Departmentfor International Development
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
ERR           EconomicRate of Return
GNP           Gross National Product
GOB           Government of Belize
IADB          Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
IRI           International Roughness Index
MIS           ManagementInformation System
MMS           MaintenanceManagement System
MOF           MinistryofFinance
MOWTC         Ministryof Works, Transport and Communications
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
NPAPSP        National ProtectedAreas Policy and Systems Plan
NPV           Net Present Value
O&M           Operation and Maintenance
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PEU           Project Execution Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
R I M S       RoughtonInternational Maintenance Management System
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
TA            TechnicalAssistance
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
UNDP          UnitedNations Development Program


Fiscal Year

Government                            April 1-March31

 IEGWBMission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
      The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two purposes:
first,to ensurethe integrity of the Banks self-evaluationprocessandto verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
expectedresults, and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough the
disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEGWBannually assesses about25 percent of
the Bank's lendingoperationsthroughfield work. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for
which Executive Directors or Bank managementhave requestedassessments; andthose that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.
      To prepare a Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR),IEGWBstaff examineprojectfiles and other
documents, interview operationalstaff, visit the borrowingcountry to discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders,and interviewBank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in localoffices as appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subjectto internalIEGWB peer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Once cleared
internally,the PPAR is commented on by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review;the borrowers'commentsare attachedto
the documentthat is sent to the Bank's Board of ExecutiveDirectors. After an assessmentreport has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the lEGW6 Rating System
      IEGWB'suse of multipleevaluationmethods offers bothrigor and a necessary level of flexibilityto adapt to
lending instrument,projectdesign, or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto
arriveat their project ratings. Followingis the definition and ratingscale usedfor eachevaluationcriterion
(additionalinformationis availableonthe IEGWBwebsite: http://worldbank.orglieg).
      Outcome: The extent to whichthe operation'smajor relevant objectives were achieved,or are expectedto
be achieved, efficiently.The rating has three dimensions:relevance, efficacy,and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevanceof objectives and relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistentwith the country's currentdevelopment prioritiesand with current Bank country and
sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporategoals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,OperationalPolicies).Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project'sdesign is consistentwith the stated objectives.Efficacyis the extent to which the project'sobjectives
were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved, taking into account their relativeimportance. Efficiencyis the
extent to which the project achieved,or is expectedto achieve, a returnhigherthan the opportunitycost of capital
and benefitsat leastcost comparedto alternatives.The efficiencydimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possibleratingsfor Outcome: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Risk to Development Outcome: The risk,at the time of evaluation,that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes)will not be maintained(or realized).Possibleratingsfor Risk to DevelopmentOutcome:High
Significant, Moderate,Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supportedeffective implementationthrough appropriate supervision(includingensuringadequate
transitionarrangements for regular operationof supportedactivitiesafter loanlcreditclosing, towardthe
achievement of developmentoutcomes.The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratingsfor BankPerfomance: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extentto which the borrower (includingthe government and implementing
agency or agencies)ensuredquality of preparationand implementation, and compliedwith covenantsand
agreements,toward the achievementof developmentoutcomes. The ratinghas two dimensions: government
performance and implementingagency(ies)performance.Possibleratingsfor BorrowerPerformance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory,Moderately Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                           ...
                                                                           111



Contents

PRINCIPALRATINGS                ....................................................................................................................      V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                      ..........................................................................................................     V


PREFACE     ......................................................................................................................................       vi1


SUMMARY      .....................................................................................................................................       IX


1.      BACKGROUND                  .................................................................................................................     1


2.      THE PROJECT              ...................................................................................................................      2

        Objectives.componentsand costs                                  ................................................................................
             ImplementationArrangements ...................................................................................................               2
                                                                                                                                                           5
             ImplementationExperience........................................................................................................              5

        Monitoringand Evaluation                       ...............................................................................................    6


3.      PROJECTEVALUATION                           ..................................................................................................     6

        Relevanceof Objectives and Design                                 ..............................................................................   6
        Efficacy     ..............................................................................................................................        9
        Efficiency       .........................................................................................................................       17
        Outcomes          ........................................................................................................................       17
        Risksto DevelopmentOutcomes                                  .................................................................................   17
        Safeguards          ......................................................................................................................       22
        Bank Performance                 ..........................................................................................................      23
        BorrowerPerformance                      ...................................................................................................     24


4.      LOOKINGFORWARDAND LESSONS                                           ..........................................................................   24


ANNEX A    .BASICDATA                SHEET         .................................................................................................     27


ANNEX B    .DRAINAGEASSESSMENT.......................................................................................                                    30


ANNEX C    .KEY     INFORMANTS                  ....................................................................................................     33


ANNEX D BORROWERCOMMENTS
           .                                                .........................................................................................    35


This reportwas preparedby George T.K Pitman. Consultant. who visited Belize inMarch 2008 Soon-
                                                         .                                                                                          .
Won Pakprovidedadministrativesupport.


                                                  V




                                       ICR*                  ICR Review*                   PPAR

    1"41-^-^~-11__-                      ---I              ------ll-l_l_*l_-~~
Outcome                        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                Moderately
                                                                                   Unsatisfactory
Institutional                     Modest                    Modest
Development
Impact**
Risk to                                                     -                           High
Development
Outcome
Sustainability***                  Likely                   Unlikely                   -
Bank                            Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Moderately
Performance                                                                         Unsatisfactory

Borrower                        Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Moderately
Performance                                                                         Unsatisfactory

* The ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department. The
ICR Reviewis an intermediateIEGWB productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**As of July 1, 2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact is assessedas part of the Outcomerating.
**AS of July 1 2006, Sustainabilityhas beenreplacedby Risk to Development Outcome.As the scales are
different,the ratingsare not directlycomparable.




Project             Task ManagerILeader              Division Chief/              CountryDirector
                     ..-"Guillermo
                        -------                      Sector Director
                                                             __l_-l-~l--.-.l--
   Appraisal                        Raun          Danny M. Leipziger           Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
   Completion         Stephen J. Brushett             Makhtar Diop               Caroline D. Anstey


                                             vii


Preface

        This is the ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) onthe Belize Roads
andMunicipalDrainage Project(Loan 4575-BE). The Project, estimated at appraisal to
cost US$18.39 million, was approved inSeptember 2000 for an IBRDLoan o f US$13.00
million. The project closed inSeptember 2005 after a 15-monthextensionwhen US$0.57
millionwas cancelled. Total project costs at completionwere US$19.36 millionof which
IBRDprovided US$12.44 millionandthe government US$6.92 million.

        This report is based on the review of the respective Memorandum and
Recommendations of the President and Project Appraisal Document (PAD), credit and
legal documents, project files at the World Bank's Headquarters, the Implementation
CompletionReport (ICR) and discussions with Bank staffinWashington.

        An Independent EvaluationGroup (IEG) missionvisited Belize inMarch2008 to
discuss the effectiveness o f the Bank's assistance with the Government, development
partners, implementing agencies, Town Councils and beneficiaries. The cooperationand
assistance o f central government officials, management and staff of implementing
agencies and other parties concerned are gratefully acknowledged.

        The project was selected for assessmentbecausethere was a concernthat follow-
uponthe institutionalissues, as opposedto engineering issues, would bepoor. Itwas also
identified as aproject withpotential safeguard concerns.

        Following standardIEGprocedures, copies o fthe draft PPARwere sent to
government officials for the review and comments. These comments are includedas
Annex D.


                                              ix


Summary

         The Belize Roads and Municipal Drainage Project was the fourth IBRDLoanto
Belize for infrastructure development focused on roads and highways. Inaddition the
Belize City InfrastructureProject hadfinanced street and drainage improvements as well
as the city's capacity to maintainits infrastructure and ability to manage its solid waste
anddelivery ofurbanservices, The Roads andMunicipal Drainage Project -the project
assessedinthis report -was designed ina responseto the government's request to
continue assistance for improvements o f road andmunicipal drainage infrastructure and
to support the Ministryo f Work's strategy to involve the private sector inroad
maintenance.

         The objectives ofthe project were to (a) improveyear-round traffic flows onthe
nationalroad network by upgradingthe roadbypass connecting the Northern and
Western Highways; (b) improve natural drainage and reduce floods andor the impact of
floods inthe selected municipalities through priority storm-water drainage
improvements; (c) assess the potential o f private sector participationinroadmaintenance
activities through the implementation o f a pilot project; and (d) improve the management
o f the transport sector, including transport policy coordinationamong the different
government ministries and agencies involved intransport, through the preparation o f
nationaltransport sector and road safety strategies.

         The outcome o fthe project i s rated moderately unsatisfactory. Project
objectives were andremain substantially relevantingeneral. However, too higha
prominencewas attached to the introduction of routine highway maintenance by the
private sector when more pressingand important institutionalreform and good
governance issues were not addressed. Overall design was substantially relevant although
a piecemeal approach to municipal drainage design loweredits effectiveness.

         Year-round traffic flow increased following satisfactory completiono fthe bypass
connecting the Northern and Western Highways. There has been considerable high-value
property development inducedby the improvements financed under the Project, including
the upgraded roadand the Burrell Boom Bridgewhich provides an additional emergency
evacuation route inthe event o f a hurricane and coastal flooding. Reportedlythe accident
rate inBurrellBoomtown declined following constructionofthe by-pass. Incontrast the
municipal drainage works are only modestly effective inreducing flooding because in
several towns they formed part o f a larger drainage network that remains incomplete. In
addition, unplanned urban andhousing development impinges onthe drains and greatly
changes the nature o f the watershed being drained, effectively nullifyingthe
improvementsunder the project.

         The intent to pilot routine maintenance o f Belize's highway network to the private
sector was forestalled by reallocationo fthe funding for this component to the relief
efforts following Hurricane Keith in2000. Incorporationo f such a component inthe
IADB's Southern Highway Project was also unsuccessful becausethe transport sector
ministryresisted it.This is despite the fact that all donor-funded projects are implemented
usingprivate sector contacts.

                                                  X



          The objective to rationalizetransport management inBelize and improve
institutional capability withthe objective o f increasing the efficiency o f resource
mobilizationinthe sector was not achieved. Consultants appointed by the Project
produceda national transport strategy, a road safety strategy andplan, and an institutional
development strategy for the road sector. Itwas expected that the institutional reform
program would be initiated inlate 2004 and be completed by 2009. After the project
closed these recommendations were shelved. Nothinghas been implementedsince then.

          The overall efficiency o f the project i s ratedas modest. The economic benefits
projectedfor the Burrell Boom Bridge were fully achieved, the risks to the benefit stream
are low andthe economic rate o f return o f this component i s estimated to be about 27
percent. However, while there were modest flood reduction benefits resulting from
municipal drainage improvements, the economic benefits are more difficult to estimate.
The property valuation indicator i s fraught with difficulty as an objective measure,
particularly giventhe poor governance inBelize, and there are no data on the number o f
properties or people adversely affected by flooding. The efficiency o f the institutional
components is ratedmodest. Faulty contract preparation for drainage works increased
project costs andreducedproject scope. Longdelays incontract execution were caused
by the government's prevaricationandmacro-economic mismanagement. Institutional
studies aimed at the reform o fthe transport sector were effectively wasted.

          BankandBorrower performanceare rated moderatelyunsatisfactory.Risksto
development outcomes are high. The country's 2001macroeconomic crisis ledto a
severe reduction inpublic sector expenditure for operation o f road and drainage
infrastructure. Political risks therefore remainhigh.The absence o f coordinated town
planningandgood regulationjeopardize the planning, design andimplementationof
comprehensive and integrated town plans for transport and drainage systems. While there
i s official recognitionthat this i s a major development issue, the Belize government has
beenreluctant to change the status quo. There i s thus a highrisk that partial drainage
solutions will continue to be implemented.

Experience with this project confirms five IEGlessons:

     Inadequate attention to local institutions andtheir governance arrangements may
    jeopardize achievement o f urbandevelopment objectives. While it is tempting to
     think ofinfrastructureprojects as beingfocused onengineering, the reality inBelize
     is that little o fthe infrastructure will be able to function because sound institutions
     andgood governance are weak or absent.

     Technical Assistance inthe form o f strategies and plans for infrastructure investment
     may be ineffectual inthe absence o f government ownership anda defined medium-
     term fiscal framework within which to situate them. As this framework was missing
     inBelizethe technical assistancewas effectively wasted.

     Simple engineering solutions can deliver substantial development impacts even when
    there are adverse institutional andpolitical circumstances. Inthis project the Burrell
     Boom Bridge greatly enhanced the capacity o f Belize's road infrastructure,
    particularly for disaster management following hurricanes.

                                            xi


0 Drainage and roads are componentparts oftown planning and cannot beplanned
  independentlyor randomly. Although strong and well-coordinated planning
  institutions are pre-requisites for planning infrastructure investment for urbanareas
  these were not available inBelize.

0 Drainage systems cannot bedesignedpiecemeal. They have to be designed withinthe
  context of awatershed, taking into accountthe future plans for that watershedin
  terms of landuse, andbe structured insuch away that they incrementally improve the
  drainage. The lack of comprehensiveplanning andpoor sequencingof municipal
  drainage works inBelize demonstratedthat an ad hoc approachwill not work.




                                                                 Vinod Thomas
                                                                Director-General
                                                                   Evaluation


                                                   1


1. Background

1.        Belize, located southof Mexico's Yucatan Peninsulaon the Caribbeancoast of
Central America, attainedindependencefrom the UnitedKingdom in 1981.Itoccupies
an area of about 23,000 square kmincluding 450 cayes, or small islands. The population
i s growing rapidly, having risen fiom 229,000 in 1997to almost 300,000 in2006, the
product of ahighbirthrate andlarge immigration from the LAC region. Inmid-2004 the
rural populationwas estimatedat 51percentof the total, one of the highest inthe
Americas. Over halfthe population lives inthe northand along the coastal plain. The
interior is sparsely populated. In2002 about one-third of the population was classified as
poor and 11percentextremely poor.' Only halfthe population hadaccess to animproved
water supply. By Caribbeanstandardsadult literacy was relatively low at 77 percent o f
the population in2003: BelizepercapitaGNP was estimatedatUS$4,165 in2006.

2.        Proximity and exports to US markets andpreferential access to the EUas a
member ofthe BritishCommonwealth, aidedby a stable currency, has greatly facilitated
economic g r ~ w t hThe economy has traditionally been orientedtowards agriculture
                      . ~
which, together with forestry and fishing, accounts for about 13 percent GDP. Sugar is
the principal crop and single largestexport earner buthas declined significantly to
account for only 17percent of exports in2005 whilst in 1990 it accountedfor 41 percent.
Citrus occupies the StannCreek valley inCentral Belize andaccounts for about one-fifth
oftotal export value. Boththese sectors have historically benefitedfrom free trade with
the EUandthe USA but havebegunto contract becauseduty free and quota free access
to these markets is likely to cease by about 2010. The emphasis is now on non-traditional
crops such as papaya, soyabeans, cashews andmarine products to fill the gap.
Manufacturing accounts for 8 percent of GDP and employs lessthan 10percentof the
labor force. Much ofmanufacturing is centeredon agricultural processing. Since the
1990smost state-owned enterprises havebeenprivatized including water, electricity,
telecommunications andports. Privatizationhas not always runsmoothly -
telecommunications were renationalizedin2005. The service sector has been growing
rapidly andnow accounts for about two-thirds of GDP. Within the service sector tourism
i s the largest sub-sector and 656,000 tourists visited Belize in2006.

3.         Giventhe dominance of agri-business inthe national economy, improvingthe
roadnetwork was seen as apriority activity fiom the 1980s. Substantialupgrading o f
major roads has beencontinuous andhas beenfundedmostly by bilateral and multi-
lateral donors including the IADB, DFID, USAID, CDB andmore recently by the EU,
and the Taiwan government. In1999the roadnetwork was 2,900 kmof which only 17
percent was paved. All maintowns andvillages are linkedby roadto the capital
Belmopan andto Belize City. In2003 the vehicle ownership rate was 16.2 vehicles per
1000population andthere were about 40,000 cars, over 3,000 buses and4,200 goods
vehicles andtaxis.


1 . Living StandardsMeasurement Survey 2002
2. Incomparison Jamaica is 79 percent, Barbados 95 percent whilst Mexico is 64 percent.
3. The exchangerate has been pegged to the US dollar at a fixed rate of BZ$2.00 per US$since 1976.

                                                      2


 4.       Bankinvolvement inBelize's transport sector was initiated in 1983 withthe
 approvalof the first road maintenance andrehabilitation projecta4This supporteda four-
 year program to strengthen the Ministry of Works and Transport's maintenance capacity
 through technical assistanceandmaintenanceequipment. Many ofthe institutional
 reform initiatives promoted by this project were not supportedby higher levels of
 government andachievements were modest. A repeaterproject was approved inmid-
 1988 andthis continuedthe earlier support with a greater focus on roadmaintenance
 management, including two pilot projects to introduce routine maintenanceby contract.

 5.        While one of the pilot projects for the maintenanceofthe northernhighway was
 successful, that for the southernhighway was completedby MOWT's direct works unit
underforce account. Subsequentlythe Bankapproved aUS$20millionloan for the
 Belize City Infrastructure Project. This fmanced street anddrainage improvements,
 improvedmaintenance capability, management of solid waste andimprovement ofurban
 service delivery. As with the road maintenanceprojects, institutional development was
partial. A major limitation was the shortage o f qualified and skilledpersonnel. In 1996
the Bankprovidedtechnical assistanceto the governmentto design improvedroadsand
municipal drainage infrastructure andto support greater private sector participation in
roadmaintenance activities. Subsequently the Town Councils for the six largest
municipalitiesaskedthe Belize Social InvestmentFundto include drainage
improvements.Since the overall cost would havecapturedthe majority of SIF's budget
theBankagreedto financethe stand-aloneRoadsandMunicipal Drainage(RMD)
Project, the subject ofthis assessment.

2. The Project

Objectives, components and costs

6.        The overriding goal was to assistthe government's five-year 1999National
Poverty Elimination Strategy andAction Plan (NPESAP) that includedimproved
provision of infiastructure to connect rural andurbanareas thus facilitating access to
markets andgrowth. To achievethis the project identifiedfour objectives:
o Improve year-roundtraffic flows onnational roadsbyupgradingthe roadbypass
     connectingthe Northern andWestern Highways;
o Improvethe naturaldrainage andreducethe impact of floods inselected
     municipalities;
o Assess the potential ofprivate sector participation inroadmaintenanceactivities
     throughthe implementation of a pilot project; and
o Improvethe managementandcoordination ofthe transport sector through preparation


4. The first Bank loanto Belize was inthe infiastructure sector. Itconsistedof a RoadMaintenance and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2273-BEL, US$5.3 million, May 1983). This project was followed by the
SecondRoadMaintenance and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2945-BEL, US$5.6 million, May 1988). These
loans providedfor rehabilitationworks on the sections o fthe nationalroadnetwork, engineering studies
and related supervision, acquisition ofequipment and spare parts for maintenance operations, and technical
assistance for training. These loans were followed by the Belize City Infrastructure Project (Loan ,US$20
million, November 1993).

                                                    3


     of national transport sector androad safety strategies.

These objectives were straightforward and were supportedby four main components.
Table 1 summarizes objectives, relatedcomponents and costs.

Table 1: BelizeRoadsandMunicipalDrainageProject: Objectives, components and
costs                                  -
                             ~~                  ~       ~-
                                                                 ~~       .
    Objectives                                   Components                                  Project Costs
                                                                                             US$millions
                                                                                           Planned   Actual

1. Improve year-     1. BurrellBoomRoad Improvementsover 20 km                              7.40      9.62

round traffic flows   0  Upgrade the existing gravel roadto an 8.7 meter wide two-lane
on nationalroads         asphaltroad builtover an embankment above flood level               6.80     8.68
by upgradingthe       0  Construct anew diversionroad to bypass the Burrell Boom
road bypass              Village
connecting the           Upgrade the BurrellBoom Bridge by replacingthe existing
Northern and             bridge with a new two-lane steel girder and composite cast in       0.60     0.94
Western Highways         situ concreteusingexistingpiers and abutments

2. Imurovethe        2. Drainage-relatedworks for selectedmunicipalities
natural drainage      0  Financepriority drainage interventions insix towns located in       5.00     5.63
andreduce and/or         five ofBelize's districts from northto south as follows: Corazal,
the impact o f           OrangeWalk, Benque Viejo, SanIgnacio/SantaElena,
floods inselected        Dangriga and Punta Gorda
municipalities
                     3. Maintenanceby contractat a Ministry ofWorks and                      1.15      0.0
3. Assess the       Transport (MoWT) District
potential of private  0  Implementa pilotproject that will finance the implementation
sector participation     ofroadsmaintenance by contract (MBC) inone ofthe country's
inroad                   sevendistricts
maintenance
activities through a  0  Providetechnical assistance; financing for physical work
pilot project            includingtwo periodic maintenance exercises carried out by
                         contractors measuredon a unitprice basis; and procurement o f
                         two lightvehicles and three computers.
                     4. Institutional strengtheningstudies, supervisionand training
                     program
4. Improvethe         0  Provide technical assistancecomprising studies, engineering         2.61      3.06
managementand            services and training for MoWT staff including: National
coordination o fthe      transport strategyhransport database: Nationalsafety strategy;
transport sector         Road maintenanceand financing options; Protection o f
through                  environmentally sensitive areas; Drainage maintenance
preparation o f          managementplan; BurrellBoom roadhridge supervision; Pilot
nationaltransport        project and drainage works design, supervision and evaluation;
sector and road          Support to the Project ExecutionUnit(PEU) and incremental
safety strategies        staff costs; and Training programs for environmental education,
                         raisingpublic awarenessand training fro public
                         officialskontacts and MoWT.
                                                                           Front-End Fee     0.13
                                                       Price and Physical Contingencies      2.10
                                                                               Total Cost    18.39    18.43
7.       BurrellBoomBridge.The northernhighway from Yucatan, Mexico, is
connectedto the westernhighway and southernhighways that link to Guatemalaandthe

                                                      4


 southern districts o f the country via Belize City. Locatedon the prominent Belize River
 deltaic peninsula, a low-lying mangrove swamp, Belize City has rapidly grown inarea
 since the early 1980sand houses a fifth o f the nation's population. Urbanexpansion was
 accomplished through a continuous process o f landreclamationthat involved cutting
 mangroves, excavation o f surrounding highlandareas and infilling o f low-lying wetlands.
 The scarcity of landledto overcrowding inthe city center, intense traffic congestion and
 one o f the highest accident rates inthe Americas.' To reduce the impact o ftransiting
 traffic, the government constructed the Burrell BoomBridge bypass flankingthe city to
the north-west inthe 1950s.However, the bridgewas inthe center ofBoomTownand
 subsequently became a traffic bottleneck. Additionally the road foundation became
compacted from years o f use and only modest maintenance, and this created a drainage
problem. The works proposed bythe project (a new bridge and a bypass realignedover
much of its length) relocated the majority of the traffic to the east o f the town center. The
new bridge was designed to accommodate higherprobable flood levels and discharge and
the approach roads were increased inwidth and grade to allow greater vehicle speed.

8.        Improvingdrainageand minimizingurbanflooding. Under the two earlier
Bank-financedroadprojects infrastructure rehabilitation was carried out inBelize City.
This includedthe rehabilitationofthe urbansection ofthe NorthernHighway and a
section o f the Central American Boulevard that had deteriorated due to damage caused by
insufficient drainage inthe city andpoor maintenance of the roads and canals. Persistent
flood problems andrelated damage were successfully addressed through the Belize City
Infrastructure Project that was completed in 1999. Consequently the project was
designed to expand improved drainage andto minimize flood risks to the remaining six
urbanareas covering 53,000 people. These includedthree coastal towns: Corozalinthe
north, Dangrigainthe center andPunta Gorda inthe south; and three inlandtowns inthe
north and east: Orange Walk, St Ingnacio/St Elena, and Bianco Viejo.

9.        Privatesector participation.This hadlong been anobjective o f Bank
infrastructure projects inBelize. While private sector participation had beensuccessfully
mainstreamed inthe MOWT for donor-financed projects, routine road maintenance tasks
were undertaken under force account using departmental staff andequipment. The
Bank's view was that the government should contractuallydevolve these routine
activities to the private sector, thereby increasing efficiency andreducing costs. This
would distance MOWT from operational tasks andrefocus its attention on sector policy,
planningandmanagement. The pilot project was designedto demonstrate that local
capability existed andwas cost-effective.

10.       Institutionalstrengtheningwas aimed at improvingthe management o fthe
transport sector and coordination o f the different government entities involved in
transport. Within MOWT this included strengthening its selection, planningand
programmingfunctions, improving road safety, and improving the national and local
institutions responsible for municipal drainage.



5. This was about20,000 people per squarekilometer. While Belize City accounts for 34% of the country's
vehicle fleet inthe mid-1990~~nationally it accounted for about 75% o f alltraffic accidents and fatalities:
annually there were about 262 traffic-related deaths and over 500 trait-related injuries.

                                                  5


IMPLEMENTATION         ARRANGEMENTS
 11.      The arrangementswere straightforward. MoWT was responsiblefor overall
project coordination with concernedministries and departments(for example the
Department of Environment) andwiththe Ministry of Finance. A specialistunit of the
MoWT, the Project ExecutionUnit(PEU), was given full responsibility for planning
implementation, procurement andmanagementof the international consultants engaged
to undertake the detailed designand supervision of contractors. The PEUwas created
earlier to implement the IADBSouthernHighway Project andretained sole responsibility
for donor-funded projects. Appraisal o fthe capacity ofthe PEUto implementthe project
andprocurement was found to be satisfactory subject to augmentingits staff capacity and
updating its computers and equipment.

IMPLEMENTATION         EXPERIENCE
 12.      Soon after project ap roval Hurricane Keithinflicted considerable damage on the
northernhalfof the country. The hurricane lingered for three days offthe coast and
                                 r
brought large volumes of torrential rain. Thus the Bank's first two supervision missions
were concernedwith determining the impact ofthis hurricaneonthe proposedproject
andthe reallocation of $US1.15 millionfor emergencyreconstruction.At the same time
itwas realizedthat the hydraulic designofthe BurrellBoom Bridge neededamendment
to increase its discharge capacity. With these changes inplace the project became
effective at the end of January 2001. The hurricane also brought about greater discussion
amongthe developmentpartners dealing with infrastructure, andinMarchthe private
sector pilot project was folded into the IADB SouthernHighways Upgrading Project. The
Bankalso consideredreallocating hndsfrom the ongoingInstitutional Development
Fundanddesignof a supplementalloanto rebuild2 kmofthe mainwesternhighway
betweenBelize City and the airport. Bothideaswere droppedin2003 as the country's
macro-economic crisis deepened.

 13.      Delays stalled progressand increasedcosts. Inthe first year only the Burrell
Boom Bridge andrelated works andDangriga Drainage Works were implemented.In
Dangrigathe drainage works raninto landacquisition problems that stalled part ofthe
work, problems that also occurredelsewhere, and remained unresolvedfor the rest ofthe
project. Underestimationofthe quantity o fcivil works or omissions that were revealed
after the award of contracts causedunforeseencost increases. To stay withinbudget
MoWT orderedreduction inthe extent of drainageimprovements constructed. These
delays allowed unitprices to increaseabove appraisal estimates and civil works hadto be
reducedinseveral towns to stay within budget. Additionally, Belize suffered a shortage
of steel reinforcement in2003-04that ledto a substantial increase inits price.

14.       After 2001the Treasury issuednoticeto MoWTthat non-essentialinfrastructure
works should be delayed becauseofdifficulties with the growing public sector debt.
Contracts for the remaining five towns were stalled untilthe middleof 2003 and

6. HurricaneKeithhitBelizeover the periodSeptember30-October2,2000. Ithadsustainedwind speeds
o f 120to 216kmhour. Accordingto the NationalEmergency ManagementOrganizationand IADB
surveysthe total damage cost the economyUS$262million. Damageto tourism accountedfor 23%of
these estimates; roads andbridges 20.5%; andagriculture 16%. Two further Hurricanes of lower
magnitudeand a tropical storm also affectedBelizeover the next two years.

                                               6


construction inBenque Viejo was firther delayed until2005. Shortage o f counterpart
funds became serious after 2003 andslowed construction as contractors had little
capacity to continue work without regular interim payments. Eventually the international
consultants retained to supervise the civil works refused to certify final accounts or
releasemaintenance manualspending receipt o f long-overdue accounts. As a result, the
last contract for Benque Viejo (2005) was supervised directly by the PEU.

 15.    Theinstitutional studies got offto a very late start (2004) andwere only
completed at the end o fthe project. Deliberationswere still being conducted on the
recommendations emanating from these studies duringthe preparationo f the ICR.

 16.    The various delays inawarding contracts causedthose for Corozal andOrange
Walk to beterminated before their completioneventhoughthe project was extended 15
months. This was engendered by the Bank's frustrationover the government's
procrastination inducedby its growing macroeconomic crisis that came to a head in2005.
As aresult, US$0.57 millionwas cancelled at projectclosure.

Monitoring and Evaluation

17.     Design.Key performanceindicators anda logical framework were includedinthe
project appraisal report. These were supplemented by detailedinput and output tables
prepared as part o f the civil engineering works andthe environmental impact
assessments.Inconsequence the focus o fthe M&Eeffort was on measuring progress and
outputs. While expected outcomes and impactso f the engineering interventions were
defined, several lacked objectively verifiable indicators. For example, the measure of the
efficacy o f better drainage was to be a rise inpropertyvalues. This measure, however,
was not market-based but depended on official property valuations that were knownto be
inaccurate and subject to political manipulation to minimize tax liability. There were no
verifiable indicators developed to measure the impact o f institutional strengthening on
MoWT's efficiency andproductivity.

18.     Implementation. Onthe whole this was excellent for the inputs and outputs.
Little attention was paid to tracking outcomes and impacts.

19.     Utilization.This was highinterms o freportingfinancial andengineering
progress and inmitigating temporary adverse environmentalimpacts during construction.
Almost no attention was given to measuring the outcomes of the project. This was the
result of extremely tight counterpart fundingduringthe second halfofthe project,
delayed implementation, andnegligible record-keeping by municipalities after civil
works were completed and handedover to municipalities. The overall rating for M&E
i s modest.

3. Project Evaluation

Relevance of Objectives and Design

20.    The objectiveswere and remain highlyrelevant.The project was highly

                                                   7


relevantto government's policies to stimulate growth through high levels of public
investment,particularly for essentialinfrastructurethat benefitsthe relatively poor. These
policies were formalized inthe five-year National Poverty Elimination Strategy and
Action Plan (approved by the Cabinet inAugust 1999) that formed the basis for the
Bank's 2002 Country Assistance Strategy for the period 2000-2005. Andthe CAS
 supported, inter alia, economic growth through promotion of private sector participation,
enhancedandmore effective roads, reduction of flood damage, better governanceand
more effective public-sector institutions. The Government's Medium-TermEconomic
 Strategy (2003-05) reemphasizedthe role that inadequateroad infrastructure played in
reducing the competitivenessofBelize's agricultural sector through increasedtransport
costs andthe difficulties ofmaintaining year-round flow of productsto international
markets.

 21.      The drainage improvement objective was andremains relevant.Belize lies inthe
heart of the hurricane belt and is periodically affected by major storms andhurricanes
 with an average return period of 7.5 years. Annual rainfall varies from 1270mminthe
 northto over 4318mminthe south. Hurricanescause serious damage to crops,
 infrastructure, housing andtourism facilities. Flash flooding is amajor problem
particularly inurbanized areas. The capital, Belmopan, was built 80 kmwest of Belize
 City inthe mid-1960s inresponseto Hurricane Hattie that devastatedthe former ~apital.~

 22.      The main sources of growth inBelize tourism, sugar, bananas, citrus, forestry
                                                     -
 and aquaculture - are basedon naturalresourcesthat require all-weather access to
 markets,processingareas andports. Provisionandmaintenanceofroads andhighways
 are thus key components ofthe nation's infrastructure. Good quality roads are also
 imperative to natural disaster managementparticularly since much of the coastal landis
 below sea level andprone to frequent flooding. Within towns the financing of critical
 roadand drainage works to reduceproperty damage andremove obstacles to commercial
 development was andremains highly relevant. This enables functioning of rural market
 centers and augments efforts to improve public health: these include speedier access to
 medicalfacilities andreduction ofwater-relatedvectors for diseasessuch as malaria.

 23.      The institutional objectivewas and remains highly relevant. Elevendifferent
 organizations participated inBelize's road andtransportation sector regulatedby six Acts
 of Parliament. While the MoWT was nominally incharge o f sector activities, there was
 little effective coordination on either policy or management of the sector because of
 overlapping mandates andresponsibilities. A major constraint was the lack of a
 comprehensivedevelopment planfor the sector and few common criteria to rank
priorities for both investmentandnormal operation andmaintenance activities. A primary
weakness was the lack of moderntechnical capacity, a problem exacerbatedby annual
budgetallocations that met only part ofthe MoWT's requirements, causingitto ration its
involvement. As a result special investment and local needs were frequentlymet by local
industriesandlor municipalities on anad hoc basis without consultation with MoWT.

24.       Overall designis rated as modestly relevant. The designof the BurrellBoom

~~          ~



7. The locationofBelmopanwas chosen to minimize environmentalrisks and inthe master plangreat care
was givento design of its road and drainage to minimize the possibility of disruption and floods.

                                                        8


Bridge andbypasswas andremains highly relevant.The feasibility study included
comprehensiveengineeringand economic analysis, and an environmental impact
statement. Together they clearly demonstratedthe new bridge was the best o f the
alternativesproposed. Ithada clear andpositive impact on national road capacity and
road safety concerns, andreduced costs to the sugar industry.

25.       Incontrast, the designofthe municipal drainagecomponentwas andremains only
modestly relevant. The primaryreasonis that lending ceilings compromised the
engineering design. The total cost o f investment indrainage for all phaseswas estimated
at US$10.8 millionandwith the other componentstotal project cost would havebeen
US$23.4 million. However, concerns over growing national debt causedthe Bankto
impose a ceiling on overall lending to Belize of US$30 millionfor a maximum of three
projects at any one time, or about US$10 millionper project. In2000 the ongoing Social
InvestmentFundhad a loanofUS$7 million. An EducationProject plannedfor 2002 was
provisionally allocateda loan of US$10 million. This left a balanceofUS$13 million for
aproject inthe period 2000-2001-andthis was the maximum amount approved for the
project (Table 2.) For these reasonsthe Bankfinancedonly about halfo fthe required
costs for drainage investments.Becausethe government wantedto assist all six towns,
this resultedina budget that was spreadtoo thinly and only parts of the required drainage
systems were constructed.

Table2: The municipaldrainageloanamountwas squeezedby the loan ceiling
                                             Total Cost **     Bank        LoanAmount       Loan Balance
                Component                     US%million     Share (%)      US%million       US$ million
 Loan Ceiling                                                                                   13.OO
 BurrellBoomBridge                                8.48           65             5.50            7.50
 RoadsMaintenanceInitiative                       1.15           65             0.75            6.75
 Institutional Strengthening                     2.74           100             2.74            4.01
 Balance lefi for MunicipalDrainage                                                             4.01
 Amount Financedfor MunicipalDrainage             5.73           65             3.72            0.19

                                      Total      18.10                          12.71

Source: IEGcalculations   ** this includescontingenciesand excludes the front-end fee and goods(US$0.29 million)

26.        Similarly, the institutional studies were too narrowly focused on the transport
sector and their relevancewas modest. Roads and drainage are critical componentso f
urbanandtownplanning andthey haveto be integratednot only withinthe urbanfabric,
but also designedto cater for future expansionandchangesoflanduse. Yet landuse
planning andzoning was andremains notable by its absence and development remains ad
hoc and drivenby political champions. Just as importantly, municipal institutions were
andremainonly modestly effective. The experience ofthe recently-completed Belize
City infrastructure project demonstratedthere was a clear needfor comprehensive
planning andimplementationof idi-astructureimprovement particularly for the
rehabilitationo f streets, canals, drains, andmanagementof coastal zones, traffic, solid
andliquidwastes. Itwas also well knownthat localmunicipal institutions were seriously
challengedby political partisanship, difficulties inrevenue generationandtheir low
capacity for routine operation andmaintenance(O&M). Relevanceof institutional design

                                              9


is thus rated modest.

Efficacy

ObjectiveI: Year-round traffic flows on national roads were improvedby upgrading
the road bypass connectingtheNorthern and WesternHighways. Efficacy is rated
high.
27.      The Burrell BoomBridge and 11.8 kmbypasswere completed on schedule and
now provides an alternative north-south all-weather linkacrossthe Belize River.Traffic
lanes are 3.5m wide and are ingood condition. Shoulders,1.5m inwidth, which allows
vehicles to stop clear of moving traffic, are of good quality and well maintained. A 250
m-long floodway was installed to minimize damage riskto the roadembankmentsand
the bridge abutments during major floods. Verge and lateral drain maintenancei s regular
and visibility on well-graded bendsremains good.

28.      Vehicular traffic has increasedfrom 600 to over 1,000 vehicles a day andthe
distance between Belmopan andthe airport was decreasedby 10km.Travel time savings
per vehicle are more than30 minutesonaverage. There has beenno report of flooding
since the road was reconstructedand the road is passable inall conditions.

Objective2: Natural drainage of municipalitieswas improved butfloods remain a
problem. Efficacy is rated modest.
29.      The project's drainage works were substantially completed except inCorozal,
Orange Walk and, to a lesser extent, inDangriga. The quality o fthe civil works is
generally good. The robustness of lineddrains makes the structure easy to maintain and
these work well ifcleanedregularly (Picture 1.)Unlineddrains, however, are difficult to
maintain becauseof lateral inflow, siltation, andvegetative growth (Picture 2.)

                                               lustconstruction and easv to maintain




         (a) Main drain in Benque Viejo                  (b) Main drain in Dangriga
Source: IEGMarch2008.
 30.     Meetings o fthe IEGmissionwith the Town Councils andinspection ofthe
towns' drainage demonstrated, however, that project works are only modestly effective in
reducingflooding. This is for three reasons. First, a fragmented approach: the project's
 drainsare part of a larger drainagenetwork that remains incomplete (Table 3). Second,

                                                  10


unplanned urbanandhousing development either impingeson the drains or greatly
changes the nature o fthe watershed being drained, reducingthe effectiveness o f
improvements under the project. And third, inadequate municipal budgetsfor
preventative maintenance o f urbanroads and drainage threatens longer-term
sustainability of both investments (Picture 3.)Details o f drainage improvements and
problems for eachmunicipality are given inAnnex B.

Table3: Planneddrainageworks were only partially implemented
                         Cost of Drainage Works (BZ$million)                   Flooding

  Municipality     Planned       Appraised     Actual     Actual to
                                                                         Present?     Severity

  Benque Viejo       0.75          0.75          1.88        119%            Yes      ***
  Dangriga           6.74          6.74          5.50        86%             Yes      **
  St Ignacio          3.2           3.2          0.85        44%             Yes      **
  Orange Walk         3              3           0.99        37%             Yes      ***
  Punta Gorda         1.5           1.5          0.58        31%             Yes      ****
  Corozal             6.7           6.7          1.46         16%            Yes      ****
  Totallaverage     21.89          21.89        11.26        49%

Source: IEGbasedonPAD and ICR The severity rating:** =modest;*** =substantial;**** =high


Picture2: Unlineddrains in Corozal                Picture3: Inadequatemunicipalroad
are difficultto maintain                          maintenancein Santa Elena




Source: IEGMarch 2008.
3 1.     Only halfthe requireddrainage was constructed under the project because o f
financial constraints. InCorozal (population 18,000) the project covered only 43 percent
o fthe required drainage, but omitted works that would have improved drainage of the
Skelton Town and White Coca1subdivisions. Eventhenthe extent o f work was reduced
to stay within budget becausedelays allowed appreciable unit cost escalation. This
resulted inthe construction o f higher thandesigned elevations to the NorthEast Magoon
drains andareduced section to the SouthEast MagoonDrain. According to the Town

                                                      11


Council and IEGinterviews betweenone and                         Box 1:Flooding inCorozal
two thousand households suffer periodic
flooding (Box l),somewhat worse than before                      Martha Costianolives with her extended
the project, mainly due to unplannedand infill                   family of 18 inthe White Coca1Area.
                                                                 "Every time there is heavyrain the local
development.                                                     area floods up to 0.6 m depth andthe water
                                                                 may remainfor 6 to 8 weeks. The car
32.      InOrangeWalk (population 22,000) the                    bodyshop next door can't function and my
project mitigatedthe flooding problemwithinthe                   neighborsinthe backhadto stay out for two
town but new and unplanneddevelopmentshave                       months." Inspectionshowed anunlined

creatednew flood-prone areas. Project                            drain (not part ofthe project) had collapsed
                                                                 on one side ofthe road and theroad culvert
improvementsto the open-lined drain linking the                  was partially blocked.
upstreamDumStreet works with the eastern                         In the SkeltonTown area, Mansfield
drainage lagoon were, however, not constructed                   Philips' yard is flooded 0.2 to 0.6 mmainly
andthe existing drain is indanger of collapse                    becausethe local drainage is blocked.
dueto poor maintenanceby the Town Council                        Although there was flooding before, it is
(Picture 1). Elsewhere inthe town the project                    now worse becausethe better-off families
                                                                 are raisingtheir plot levels and this
drains are well-maintaineda8                                     concentrates the flood waters inthe lower-
                                                                 lying,areas.

33,      Despite these improvements inOrange                     Source: IEGinterview 12March,2008.
Walk there&e new drainageproblems causedby unplanneddevelopment. The Area
Representativeindependentlyobtainedministerial permissionto develop a housing
subdivision inthe low-lying areato the south of San Lorenzo Road andthis is subject to
seasonalfl~oding.~       This isthe result of a stand-off betweenthe developer andTown
Council becausethe latter will not assume responsibility for the provision of drainage and
roads inanareaof high flood risk that the Council deems inappropriate for housing.

34.      InDangriga (population 16,000) flooding was reduced, butnot as muchas
planned.The drainage system was well constructed, self-cleansing was only partially
achievedand flooding is still a problem. A major north-south drain and its sluice gate
were not completed becausethe landowner refused to sell at the government's
valuation." A compulsory purchaseorder was not pursuedbecause of political pressure.
The outfall gate ofthe northerndrain failed shortly after the warranty period andwater
now backsup causing about 0.6 mdepthof flooding that affects approximately 200
householdsinthe poorest area (Wegierale) oftown.l1Inthe southernpart of the town the
sea outfall for the Lakelanddrain was not constructed, the existing outfall is completely
silted, ponding inthe drain causes a healthhazard, andperiodic flooding is exacerbated
by unplannedhousing development.

35.      The requireddrainage works inSan Ignacio-SantaElena (population 21,000)
were only partially covered by the project. According to residents, flooding is now worse


8. A 3 to 4 m section of the new project drain beneathCinderellaStreet collapsedtwice inthe period2004-
05. This was repairedby the MoWT.
9. The area includes 120 units of Social Housing and was constructed in2003-04. At the time of IEG's visit
it was 80% occupied.
lo,For the the southernhalfofthe Penn Street Drain
11. IEG interviewswith the Mayor, Administrator and Clark ofWorks. Dangriga, 17March 2008. The
sluice gate is on the outfall of the John Creek Canal that drains to the north.

                                                     12


 thanbefore inone ofthe two areastargeted for improvement. The mainproblem, as in
 Dangriga, was the government's inability to acquire private landfor the downstream
 drainage works.

 36.       Project works at Benque Viejo adjacent to the border with Guatemala were fully
 completed to a very highstandard. Despite this, the town has subsequently experienced
 two major floods and "flooding i s now worse than before the project" with considerable
 property damage.12 Continued flooding i s caused by three problems. The main drain has
 beenconstricted byproperty extension. A critical drain link onthe secondary drain i s
 missing because (according to the Town Council) the designwas made without local
 consultation. And third, aninadequate Town Council budget for O&M has precluded
 repair o f a covered main drainthat connects project works.'3

 37.      Inthe southern-most town, PuntaGorda(population 6,000), drains were planned
 for bothnorthern and southern areas o f the town but only the first-phase northern drain
 was constructed. The project drain greatly increasedthe drainage capacity andthe
 flooding problem to the northhas beenmitigated. The situation inthe south has
 deteriorated W h e r andabout 400 households are affected by flooding 1.5 to 2 m in
 depth. The causes are unplanned de~elopment,'~blocking o f the natural SE Magoon drain
 byheavy vegetation andblockage ofits outlet by a sandbar.

 Objective 3: Private sectorparticipation in road maintenance activities was not
 achieved because of exogenousevents
 38.      The intent to replace MoWT's direct work on road maintenance under force
 account was forestalled by Hurricane Keith. Incorporation o fthis objective inthe IADB
 Southern Highway Projectwas also unsuccessful. The primary reason i s that the budget
 for routineroadmaintenance is MoWT's largest source o f discretionary income that is
 fungible across all its activities excepting capital investment. MoWT is also o f the firm
 beliefthat roadmaintenance by the private sector is considerably more expensive and
would result inless maintenance beingdone given the smallbudget al10cated.l~They also
believe it carries risks that the work would not be undertaken by skilled professionals and

 12. IEG discussion with the Mayor and Town Council, March 14,2008 The worst problem is where the
eastern open drainpasses under Churchill Street. Here the original bridge was replacedby twin culverts
"the culvert is smallerthanthe concrete drainandthe flow ofwater brings downgarbagethat clogs the
narrower opening; beforethe projectthe flood depthon the street was only 0.3 m, now reaches 1to 1.5 m."
 13. This drainflows for about 200 m throughthe highschoolyard andnow backs up during heavy rain
causing flooding to the schoolyard and church opposite. This drain was constructed by the Social
InvestmentFundand links upstreamand downstream drains later constructed by the project. The cause of
the flooding is unclear but the MoWT is ofthe opinion that constructionof SIF drainwas substandard and
that partial collapse may have occurred inthe hiddenportions.
14. The unplanned development was for a large shoppingboulevardpromotedby a minister inthe former
government. The finance came fiom anotherproject managedby the MoWT, the PortAuthority Customs
House building. The alignment ofthe shoppingboulevard's drains was not tailored to existingdrains and
the drains were made muchdeeper. As a result when it rains it forms a lake rather than a drain as the outlet
is too low. Sometime after the problembecame apparent an engineer fiom Belmopanwas dispatched to
solve theproblembut the budget allocatedwas insufficient to complete the redesign.
15. Discussions with MoWT indicatethat their costs are based on actualexpenditures per task and
materialsbut do not take into account plant depreciation, interest payments on investment, full maintenance
costs, replacement investmentor management overheads. MOWT staff statedthat they quoted US$

                                                     13


that the paperwork and contractingprocedures would make it less responsive inreacting
to maintenance needs. This latter point is particularly important as the geographic
allocation o f roadmaintenance is determined by Area Representatives, not by needs
independentlydetermined andprogrammedontechnical criteria.l6

39.       Untilrecently these arguments persuadedpoliticians that the status quo was
acceptable, but circumstances have recently changed. Deferred maintenance has put 40
percent o fthe MoWT's inventory ofheavy equipment out o f working order. The majority
o f MoWT's operating plant was sold by the outgoing government just before the 2008
electionandreplacement costs are estimated to be about US$13 mi1li0n.l~                  Thus the
M oWT i s physically unable at present to continue with road maintenance without a large
injection o f capital expenditure. The new ministeri s reportedly more sympathetic to the
engagement o fthe private sector for routine road maintenance. The potential certainly
exists. Second-hand engineering plant i s readily available from the USA and many
Belizian contractors are well equipped. All the civil engineering contracts financed by
donors (excepting those inthe less-developed south) were able to engage local private-
sector contactors for road and drainage construction and the work has provedto be of
satisfactory quality.

Objective4: Preparation of national transportsector and road safety strategies was
successfully completed but it did not improvethe managementand coordination of the
transportsector. Efficacy is rated negligible.
40.       Consultants appointed by the Projectproduced a national transport strategy, a
road safety strategy and plan, and an institutional development strategy for the road
sector. Preparation o f these documents occurred from mid-2003 andreported inmid-2004
after extensive consultation and workshops involving all levels o f government. The
objective was to rationalizetransport management inBelize and improve institutional
capability withthe objective of increasing the efficiency o f resource mobilizationinthe
sector.

41.       The principal recommendationwas that the Ministryof Works should change its
name and become the Ministry o f Transportation (MOT)that deals with all transport,
land, marineandair. At the same time the existing public works, architecturalandnon-
transport-related services currently carried out by the MoWT would be transferred to
other line agencies, as would its vehicle and plant maintenance facilities. A key reform
accompanying this institutional change would be the outsourcing ofphysical maintenance
o f sector infrastructure to the private sector. The existing MOTwould lose its moving
traffic violation function that would be transferred to the national police and its non-
moving violations function would be transferred to municipalities.18 Licensing, vehicle


16. Members ofthe Belize Parliament are known as Area Representatives. This observation summarizes
statements made by Town Councils, central government officers and regional staff o f the MoWT.
17. Duringthe 6-month period before the elections the CEO and Chief Engineer were transferred out of
MOWT andwere only recently reinstated by the new government. The sale ofthe MOWT's plant inthis
pre-election period is underjudicial investigation.
18. Under its former set-up, the MOTwas a subunit o f the MOW.Inthis role it was responsible for vehicle
registration, issuance of driver's androad service permits and licenses, and prosecution ofmovingand non-
moving traffic violations.

                                                    14


 registration andpermits, andvehicle inspectionwould betransferred to a new Motor
 Vehicle Licensing Department.Existing autonomousairport andharbor boards would be
 retained, butpolicy and strategicplanning issues would fall under MOT'Sjurisdiction.
 Similarly, national coordinationandmanagement ofroad safety would becomethe
 responsibility o f anewRoad Safety Unit.Inthe mediumterm the MOTwould develop a
 five-year strategic plan for coordinateddevelopmentofthe sector andits own staffing
 capacity. To track progress a systemof formal annual work plans and reports of
 accomplishments would beprepared.

 42.      The chief administrator ofthe MOT,a Permanent Secretaryinthe Civil Service,
 would be replacedby a competitively-appointed professional Chief Executive Office
 under a renewablethree-year contract. This was intendedto endthe system ofpolitically-
 appointed incumbentsandprovide stable management of the sector. The CEO would lead
 a Chief Engineer andteam of Directors responsiblefor infrastructure, project execution,
 finance andcorporate services. The PEUwould beretainedandtake the lead in
 developing and implementing the nationaltransport strategy.

43.       Implementation of the transport strategy and its components was not
 achieved. It was expectedthat the institutional reformprogramwould be initiated inlate
2004 andbe completedby 2009. After the project closedthese recommendationswere
 shelvedexcept for the appointment ofthe CEO. Ina major ministerial reorganizationthat
took place in2007-08, the Department of Transportation (DOT)was transferred to the
new Ministry of Health, Local Government, Transport andCommunications andthe
MoWT became the Ministry of Works (MOW).IEGwas informed that one reasonfor the
transfer ofDOT was strong political opposition to centralizing licensing andpermit
functions andremoving the revenuesfrom the Belize City administration that manages
the system.Also the governmentis understrongpressure to devolve the vehicle licensing
andpermitsystemto cash-strappedmunicipalities country-wide (paras 60 and61 below).

44.      Inthe meantime nationalroads continue to deteriorate.MoWT's annual
allocation fiom the national budget covers less than halfofthat requiredfor highway
maintenan~e.'~     Thus it has great difficulty inmaintaining the 3,302 kmofnational
highways and gives these priority over the 964 krnof municipal andvillage roads and
drains. Roadcondition surveys show that while the lengtho f excellent blacktop and
gravel road surface quality increasedby 2 and 9 percent respectively between 2004-05
and2007-08, this was offset by adecreasingshare ofroadsbeing classified as good (10
percent) and amatchingincrease inthe fair category (Table 4). Essentialmaintenance
cannot be done andkey transport infrastructure i s deteriorating (Picture 4 and 5).

45.      Clearly MoWT has problems inallocating its resourcesto maximize national
benefits -it may be better to maintain a larger proportion o f roads inthe good category
than havingonly a few excellent quality roads. Generally the assessedcondition ofthe


19. MoWT estimatesthat the average cost for full maintenance ofthe nationalroadnetwork in2008-09 is
US$3,15 l h . Actual maintenance expenditure, for example, was US$1,488h in2004-05 and US$1,459
in2006-07.A substantial share oftheMoWT maintenance budget is spent every year on the
constructiodmaintenance o f farm access and short "sugar" roadsto allow accessto sugar groves -
essentially a government subsidyto the farm lobby. Politicians strongly favor cane roads: government land
is leasedfor cane production; once developed cane leases can be quickly converted to an absolute title.

                                                15


wearingcourse androad drainage showed little change between2005 and 2008. Over 90
percent o f blacktop roads were classified as being ingoodto excellent condition for both
wearing course and drainage. Incontrast gravel roads are at highrisk o f serious damage
from deferred maintenance -only 22 percent had good to excellent wearing courses,
whilst only 14percent hadgoodto excellent drainage. Visual inspectionindicates that the
dominant maintenance intervention i s limitedto roadpatching, particularly on the heavily
traveled western andnorthern highways. This is consistent with the large stock -more
then 40 percent o f the inventory - of unserviceable plant inMoWT's regional depots, and
retrenchment o f field staff.

Table 4: The Belizeroad systemhasexpanded butmaintenanceis a problem

                               Blacktop (km)            Gravel (km)         Earth (km)
 Surface Condition          2004-05     2007-08     2004-05     2007-08  2004-05   2007-08
                Excellent      54          64           45        309       5         na
                     Good     493         424           501       299       6         na
                      Fair     99         170         1,776      1,794     90         na
                     Poor       6           8            67        357      6         na
                      Bad                                43        43      56         na
                     Total    652         416         2,432      2,802     163        138
 National Share               20%         18%         75%        76%       5%         6%
Source: IEG anaIysis ofMoWT's R O W S Reports2005 and 2008.
na= not available



Picture4: The main road bridgeinto                 Picture5: Patch maintenanceis the norm-
-Dangrigawerebeentakentodate
                 condemnedas unsafein2005          the mainNorthernHighwaybetweenBelize
  no actionhas




46.      Roadsafety is still a problem.Despite the recommendations ofthe roadsafety
strategy inadequate infrastructure, signage and policinghave not been addressedand
cross-sectoral coordination remains a problem- an issue not helped by the 2006-07
ministerialreorganization. Road deaths have decreased by a third since 2002 but remain

                                                 16


highby international standards.         Picture6: Traffic safety on the WesternHighway 1998-
In2005there were 2,349 traffic          2007- the mainlink betweenBelizeCity and Belmopan
accidents and 56 deaths -a
fatality risk rate of 19per
100,000 ofpopulation (Picture
6). The budget for road safety
became increasingly
constrained(Table 5) given the
estimatedannual 10percent
growth ofvehicular traffic.2o
Deteriorating road
infrastructure exacerbatesthe
safety problem: the condition o f
road shoulders on blacktop
roads followed a similar pattern
to that ofroad surfaces, but was
worse for the narrower gravel           Source: LEGMarch2008.

roads where only 6 percent were ingood or better condition.

47.      Protectionof environmentallysensitiveareaswas achieved.Dangriga's Graa-
Graa lagoon was establishedas a co-managedprotected areathrough formal agreement
betweenthe Friends of Graa-Gvaaandthe governmentthat was signed inApril 2003 and
ranfor five years.21InPunta Gorda it had originally beenbelievedthat very rare Zamia
Pieta plant habitat would be destroyedby some ofthe project works andthe projects'
study ofthis was given a lower priority when initialsurveys showedthat the plantwas
more common than originally thought. Evenso, the Bank's environmentalist pushedthe
government to complete the studies which they didreluctantly (given the increasingly
dire state ofpublic finances) at the endofthe project.

Table 5: Overallbudgetsfor roadsafety andcriticalactivitiesdeclinedwhile
revenuesfrom licensingandregistrationgrew steadily (BZ$000)
                                    FY2004        FY2005      FY2006         FY2007          FY2008
 Budget Road Safety & Traffic            566           446        522              542            187
 Regulation
 BudgetTraffic Census                     13           3.O
 Budget Traffic Safety Week               15           1.9
 Budget Traffic Signs & Posts             21
      TotalRoadSafety Budget             616           451        521              541            186
 Revenue Motor Driver's                  970         1,283
 Licenses
 Revenue Vehicle Registration          3,819         4,270      4,69 1           5,115          5,210
                  TotalRevenue        4,788          5,553      6,058            6,602          6,746
Source: MinistryofFinance, Directorate of Budget and Finance

20. Vehicle ownership grew by 22 percent between 2001 and2002 andthen fell off as indicated by the
vehicle registration data.
21. The agreementwas brokeredutilizinga small GEF grant independently of the project.

                                             17



Efficiency

48.     Overall efficiency is rated as modest. The economic benefits projected for the
BurrellBoomBridge were fully achievedandthe risks to the benefit streamare low. The
economic evaluation carried out at the time ofthe ICRremains robust under current
conditions andthe economic rate of return of 27 percent isjustified. There has been
considerablehigh-value property developmentinducedby the upgradedroad, butthere
was no baseline or impact monitoring that would enable these to betaken into account.
Although IEGwas informed that the accident rate inBurrellBoomtown had declined
following construction of the by-pass, there were no dataavailable to confirm these
statements. And finally, the bridge provides an additional emergency evacuation route in
the event of ahurricane and coastal flooding.

49.     The economic benefits ofthe drainage componentare more difficult to estimate.
The property valuation indicator i s fraught with difficulty as an objective measure. There
are no dataon the number ofproperties of people adversely affected by flooding. Clearly
the ICR's analysis overlooked the residual flooding problemsthat were not tackled by the
project becauseit offered only apartial solution. Itis also exceedingly difficult to
separatethe effects of the partial engineering solution on flooding from the adverse
impact that unplannedandunregulated housing development has had on low-lying areas
inthe project towns. Giventhese attribution difficulties, the ERRwas not re-estimated.
Qualitatively it is ratedas modest.

50.     There are no formal indicators to measurethe efficiency ofthe institutional
components or project management. While the project didget off to a quick and efficient
start for the first two municipal drainage contracts, subsequentcontracts were delayedby
the government's prevarication and the macro-economiccrisis. Because o f these
extensive delays, civil engineering costs were increasedandworks hadto be cut back to
fit availablefunding. The detailedengineeringdesignwas alsonotefficient asmany
expensivediscrepancies were discovered after the contractshadbeen let, thus requiring
trimming of the contracts' scope. The more global institutional studies aimed at the
reform of MoWT, andthe establishmentofthe MOT,were conducted efficiently.
However this investmenthad minimalimpact since no action resultedfiom this
investment.Overall the efficiency o finstitutional components is ratedas negligible.

Outcomes

5 1.    Outcome ratings are basedon the foregoing discussionthat assessed relevanceof
the projects' objectives and design, andthe efficacy andefficiency o f efforts to achieve
them. The outcome ofobjective 3 is not assessedfor the reasonsalready given. Table 6
summarizesthe conclusions.

Risksto Development Outcomes

52.     R i s k s to development outcomes are rated as high. From 1998 until2007 the
Peoples' UnitedParty (PUP) formed the government andmaintained a substantial
majority until2003. Since thenthe PUP reputation has been severely damagedby rising

                                                18


national debt and acute fiscal problems. Over the period 2001-07 the Cabinet was
reshuffledten times, creating difficulties for consistent good economic managementand
 governance. Since 2006 the PUP has lost its majority inlocal government elections and
the UnitedDemocratic Party (UDP) hastaken control of all nine municipalities. InMarch
2008 the government lost the GeneralElectionto the UDP. How the new government
addresses the governance challengesposedbythe previous government, andhow deeply
rootedthey are inthe public sector is not yet known. Therefore political risks remain
high.

Table 6: ProjectOutcomeRatedon Achievement of ProjectObjectives

                   Objectives
                                                Relevance
                                                 Overall    Efficacy   Efficiency  OUTCOME

      1. Improve year-round traffic flows on
         national roads by upgradingthe road
         bypass connecting the Northernand        High       High      Substantial
         Western Highways
     2. Improve the natural drainage and
         reduce and/or the impact of floods in  Substantial  Modest     Modest
         selectedmunicipalities
     3.  Assess the potential o fprivate sector
         participation inroad maintenance                              Not rated
         activities through a pilot project      Modest     Not rated

     4. Improve the managementand
                                                                       Negligible
         through preparation o fnational
         coordination of the transport sector     High      Negligible

         transport sector and road safety
         strategies

                      Overall Outcome rating    Substantial  Modest                 Moderately
                                                                        Modest     Unsatisfactoy



53.     Duringits time inofficethe PUP government embarked on apolicy ofreducing
taxation andincreasingpublic investmentandpromoting the expansion ofprivate sector
credit through the state-ownedDevelopment Finance Corporation (DFC). Weak
regulatory oversight and fiscal laxity increasedthe level of DFC's baddebt to almost 50
percentofits total loans. According to the IMF, total public sector debt including
government guaranteeddebt tripledbetween 1999 and 2004 to 102percent of GDP.
UnderIMFpressure the government restructured 98 percent ofits public commercial
externaldebt in2006 for 22-year bondsmaturing in2029. Inaddition to restructuring, the
government severely restrainedmost forms ofpublic expenditure and this ledto a credit
squeeze and shrinkage of the budgetsfor operation andmaintenance o fthe country's
infrastructure. This credit squeeze is likely to continue duringthe new government's
honeymoonperiod. Inthe absenceof central government reforms andpressure, there
remainsahighrisk that municipalities will not increasetheir taxation base andbecome
willing to take responsibility for the physical maintenance o f their roads anddrainage
infiastructure. Therefore there is a substantialrisk that underfunding of essential
operations andmaintenance will continue.

                                                   19


54.      MoWT is caught on the horns of a dilemma. Its earlier resistanceto institutional
reform andprivatization of its maintenancefunctions places it at a severe disadvantagein
the new environment inwhichit has beendivestedof its constructionplant.It cannot
discharge its responsibilities inthe short to medium-termwithout utilizing the capacity of
the private sector for routinemaintenance, Yet successfuluse oftheprivate sector, if
properly regulated, may provide a clear demonstrationthat the reforms promoted are
institutionally viable. Inthese circumstancesthe riskthat the MoWT's resistanceto
reform will continue is modest.

55.      UnplannedDevelopment.Townplanning is notablebyits absenceinBelize
despite a comprehensive array of laws and regulations. The lack of systematic physical
planning and a longer-term framework has causedpoor coordination of new investment
withthat already existing, andthis has createdredundancy, contradictions andgapsthat
jeopardize sustainability of municipal drainage systems.

56.      Sevenor more differentMinistries are involvedinlanduse andadministration
with considerablejurisdictional overlaps. The Ministry ofNaturalResourcesis
responsible for the administration of the LandUtilization Act and development o f Special
Development Areas. Housing developmentplanningresponsibilities are sharedby the
Ministries o f Housing, UrbanDevelopment, Cooperatives and Local Government. The
Ministry of Environment andTourism i s responsiblefor environmental legislation and
administration ofprotected andtourist sites. The MoWT is responsiblefor managing
construction ofmunicipal roads.The Ministry of Economic Development is responsible
for managingdevelopmentconcessions.The Ministry of Finance is responsible for
financing housing and development operations. The MinistryofFisheriesmanages
coastal zones.

57.       Complex and overlapping regional, district andtown planning responsibilities
has createdinstitutional chaos.Ministries andpoliticians planand execute projects inthe
rural andmunicipal areas with minimal central coordination. The Physical Planning
Directorate ofthe MinistryofNatural Resources has only five staff looking after urban
planning expansion, subdivisions and the monitoring of development for the whole of the
Belize. Only two of Belize's towns have had formal plans approved.22Although
subdivision guidelines have beenprepared, these have not been approved by Parliament
andplanning remainson acase-by-casebasis. Thus adherenceto establishedprocedures
incurs substantialdelays inplanning approvals andleadsto their abuse, particularly as
enforcementcapacity is missing. The situation is further complicated byArea
Representativeswho use their parliamentaryprivilege to bypasslegislated planning
proceduresand obtain direct ministerial approval for local housing andcommercial
development. Fragmentation ofthejurisdictional framework thus allows private


22. The 1981Land UtilizationAct clearly lays out procedures and consultationprocesses for subdivision of
urbanandrural landand demarcation ofspecialdevelopmentareas. Planningschemes, includingregional,
town planning, redevelopmentand for housingare governedby the 1957 Town PlanningAct. Within towns
developershaveto obtainpermitsfrom the Town Boardsfor building construction. Within these two pieces
of legislationthere is no considerationofzoning. Evenso, only two ofthe six towns have any formal
planning framework. The redevelopment plans for Corozal after beingdestroyed by Hurricane Janet in
1954, and for Dangrigafollowing HurricaneHattie in196, was approved under the Town Planning Act.
There has beenno formal revision to these outdated plans.

                                                   20


developersto carry through their investmentswith little or no compliance with the
existing laws andregulations.

58.      There is also no effective control from the Town Councils. Areas outsidethe town
boundariesare typically plannedanddeveloped by promoters utilizing political patronage
andnetworksinBelmopan.Although many ofthe new subdivisions are adjacentto
existing towns, Councils are not consultedeither inthe planning or design. To minimize
developmentcosts, promoters do not generally includepublic space for drainage or even
consider it necessary. For example,
until2006 not eventheminimum                    Picture 7: Lack of planning controls - obstructed
standardsfor main, secondary and                oroiect drain in northernCorozal Town
service roadwidths were enforced
bythe LandUtilization A~thority.~~
Understandably, Town Councils are
reluctant to assume responsibility for
servicing the roads anddrains o f ill-
planneddevelopmentas they do not
havethe technical capacityto
mitigate the problems or financial
ability to maintainthe resulting
infrastructure. Town councils cannot
evenmaintain existing infrastructure
andcontinueto look to central
government agencies for financial               Source: IEGMarch2008.

support andtechnical/designservicesthat are inshort supply. Inability to fully staff
building control functions means that strict application of building codes is lax (Picture
7), andeventhenthe design quality is low (Table 7). Iti s no surprise that the
municipality with the most problematic building encroachmentson drainageis Benque
Viejo, but eveninthe better areasthere are still problems.

59.      Inadequate maintenance of municipal infrastructureposes substantial risks.
Municipal budgets allocatedto maintenance ofroadways anddrainage cover only regular
cleaning and, accordingto the maintenance staff inall the owns visited by IEG, are less
thanisneeded.Preferenceis generally givento roadandverge areas seenbythe public ..
drains are generally out of sight andout ofmind.Plastic trash posesthe greatest cleaning
problem as heavy rains quickly carry this to drains where it causes periodic blockages
andflooding (Picture 8). Thus solid waste and garbage collectionis also anessential


23. Inmost new development there was no zoningand roadwidths were typically 25 ft. Thus domestic,
commercialand industrial activities hadto use the same roadfor access. Inconsequence, while central
Belmopanis the model ofa well designedtransport and drainage system, almost all of its new subdivisions
are blightedby poor quality roads made worse by totally inadequate drainage. More blatantly, the former
BelmopanCity Council also sold offthe safety and drainagebuffer strip onthe east side of Constitution
Drive for commercialdevelopment in2003-04. In2007 the City Council attemptedto sell offthe west side
but the government watchdog, the LandUtilizationAuthority PlanningCommittee revitalized since 2006,
refusedto approve this. Indeed, since late2007 the LUAPC has imposedroad standards: major highways
100 ft wide with 20 ft buffer strips; minimumroadwidth 66 ft on secondary roads and 40 ft for tertiary
roads. However, the remit ofthe LUAPC is limited only to roadstandards andthere remains no
consideration of drainage.

                                                          21


service to stop unregulateddumping inwaste land and drains - amajor problem inthe
past-and still a problem inseveraltowns where ground-raising above flood levels is
important (Picture 9). IEG's analysis of town budgets shows that between 14and 20
percent ofmunicipal revenueis spent on street cleaning, garbage collection, drains and
culverts. Typically 55 to 65 percentofthe remaining revenues cover staffing and benefit
costs, andthis leaves little revenue for other activities, includingregulation andphysical
maintenanceof infrastructure. Deferredphysical maintenanceofdrains is thus accruing

Picture8: Plastictrash threatens the                       Picture9 :Fly dumpingis allowedto raise
effectiveness of drainagesystems in                        buildingplotaboveflood levelinthe Skelton




Source: IEGMarch2008.

60.       Town Councils, while having defacto responsibility for physical maintenanceof
roads and drains, make no financial provision for this as it is the legal responsibility of
MoWT. The central government, recognizing the extra burdenthis placeson
municipalities, grants them annual fiscal transfers to cope with public service provision.24
The subventionhas been kept relatively small, however, to induce municipalities to
become financially self-sufficient.

61,       Improving local tax collection could enable coverage ofphysical maintenance.
The main bone of contention i s the municipalities' poor record onproperty tax whose
collection ratevaries between20 and45 per~ent.2~                  Evenat these low collection rates
property taxes typically account for about a third of all municipal revenue (including
fiscal transfers). Fullcollection ofproperty taxes would provide substantialadditional
revenue. InDangriga for example this would amount to an extra US$500,000 ayear; in
Orange Walk it would be US$440,000 a year - enoughto subcontract physical

24.2007-08 annual subventions ranged from US$104,300 (Benque Viejo) to US$200,000 (Orange Walk.)
25. The collection rate i s the ratio o freceipts to billings. Town Councils arguethat increasing property tax
collection would be difficult. The last property census and evaluation was conducted by govemment in
2001 and valuation is distorted bypolitical considerations. Many properties are not registered and as much
as athird ofplots are vacant. Absentee landlords are difficult to tax. Local Magistrates are too few and
national issues (e& income tax evasion, etc.) take priority. Improvinglocaltax collection would require
serious attention to issues o f local governance and increasing the capacity of the legal system.

                                                   22


maintenanceo f infrastructureto the private sector. Pressureto move inthis direction,
however, would be strongly resisted by municipalities because oftheir bad experience
withprivatization ofgarbage collection (Box 2) Inthe meantime, the MOWT does
provide very limited assistanceto municipalities to redressdeferred maintenanceon an
emergency basis.

Table 7: Belize's qualityof buildingdesignis low, as is enforcement of codes
                              Design Source (YO)                        Enforcement (%)
 Municipality        Architect     Builders      Draftsmen   Application  Monitoring  Application
                    or Engineer                                  Rate                   and
                                                                                      Monitoring
 BelmopanCity            14            6            80            92          87         80
 Corozal                 11            16           73            75          70         53
 San Ignacio             10            16           74            70          65         46
 Belize City             12            6            82            69          64         44
 Dangriga                 8            4            88            68          63         43
 Santa Elena             14            14           72            65          65         42
 Orange Walk             13            14           73            62          57         35
 Punta Gorda              6            15           79            52          47         24
 BenqueViejo             12            26           62           <50         <40        <20
 Average                 14            13            72           72          67         47

Source: ChiefExecutiveOfficer Mr.Cadet Henderson. MOWT. March 2008.

Safeguards

62.     Environmentalmanagementwas satisfactory.The approachto environmental
safeguardissues was basedonthe requirements ofthe BelizeanEIA Regulations 1995
and World Bank guidelines.The potential environmental impacts were identified from a
scoping study lookingat the environmental characteristics o f the study towns andthe
nature ofthe engineering works. The key environmental concernswere identified and
studiedindetail. The evaluation ofthe impacts was basedon aqualitative assessment,
using the criteria of direction o f impact (adversebeneficial); magnitude (high, medium,
low); diredindirect; duration (temporary or permanent); availability; andreversibility.

63.     Construction of the works inevitably causedsome nuisanceto residents,
pedestriansand other road users. There were potential environmental impacts onthe
source ofmaterials andthrough the disposalof excess soil. Contrary to initial concerns
excavation ofdrains hadno impact uponthe archaeological recordinthe towns of
Corozal, Orange Walk and San Ignacio/San Elena. InDangriga andPunta Gordadrain
improvements hadnegligible impact onthe loss of small areas ofcritical habitats and
these quickly reestablishedthemselves. Studies helpedto safeguardcritical ecosystems
andfauna (para 47).

64.     Some o f the problems identified inthe EIArelate to wider issues thanthosejust
concernedwith drainage improvements. Specifically, the environmental management
planidentifieda number ofissuesthat neededto betakenupat anational level. These

                                                     23


were planningand control o f landuse, institutional strengthening o f local government,
andtechnical assistanceinsanitation andsolid waste disposal.

Box 2: Poor governance of private sector participationset a bad precedent
      A private sector contract was awardedto collect municipal garbage inSt Ignacio-Santa Elena in
1999.This contract was won by the brother-in-law o fthe previous PUP Minister o f Finance who later
became Ministerof Home Affairs. The contract was initially for three years but was extended by the PUP-
controlled Town Council until2010. In2003 a newly elected UDC Town Council tried to void the contract
because o fpoor performance and high cost. Lawyers advised themthis could not be done as the contact had
neitherperformance indicators nor cancellation clauses. They were also advisedthat the contractor was
awarded the garbage collection monopoly for the whole municipality.
      The garbage contract costs the municipality US$208,200 ayear or about 40 percent of municipal
revenues (inother municipalities, costs are typically 60 or more percent less). The contract also allows the
contractor to charge a small pick-up fee to each household. The PUP government subsidized almost halfo f
the annual cost fromthetown's subvention that was paid directly to the contactor andthis continued until
2006. Whenthe UDC Town Council won the 2006 election the subvention was restored andthe whole
contact sum became due from the municipality,
      The contract specifies 2 collections from every house eachweek. The 400 businessespay the
contractor directly (about another US$120,000 a year) for more frequent collections. By 2003 only one of
the 2 garbage trucks was inoperation and the municipality then had to employ 4 mento clean up illicit fly
dumping.The highcost ofthe contract causedthe municipality to cut back on street and drain cleaning;
employees were put on half-time, and only halfthe contract sum was paidto the contractor. The debt built
up. The contactor usedthe delayed payment not to do more work. InJanuary2008 the PUPgovernment
paid the contractor US$25,000 and deductedthis from the subvention.
     Eventhoughthe new UDC prime minister has promisedto void the contract, the municipality will still
remain liable for the repayment of debt backlog for some years to come.

Source: IEGinterview with the St Ignacio Town Council. March 14, 2008.


BankPerformance

65.      Qualityat entry is rated as unsatisfactory. While theBank correctly identified
the range o f infrastructure andinstitutional reforms needed for Belize's transport sector,
it leanedtoo heavilytowards the engineering aspectsofproject design. Boththe Burrell
Boom Bridge and the drainage improvementswere relatively straightforward engineering
interventionsthat could have beenundertaken with little inputfrom the Bank hadthe
finance beenavailable. The PEUhad already demonstrated that it could efficiently design
andmanage straightforwardengineering projects. Yet reform ofthe institutional setting
for transport and drainage design was neglected untillate inthe project when the
consultants were mobilized. Hadthe institutional analysis been conducted during
appraisal, then it would have been evident that Belize's physical planning institutions
were indisarray, uncoordinated andhighly inefficient. The partial approach adopted for
municipal drainage was clearly unsatisfactory. It would have also become apparent that
financing for operation and maintenance o fthe sector was too dependent on central
government grants andthat municipalities needed to take a greater responsibility for these
areas. This was a major lesson from the Belize City InfrastructureProject that was
neglected.

66.      Supervision was very proactive inresponse to the need for disaster management
and mitigationfollowing Hurricane Keitheven though the other multilateral donors were

                                              24


 inabetterpositionto help.Thusthe Bank,despite its efforts, only playedaminor role.
 The considerableeffort to become involved indamagerepair diverted the Bank's
 attentionfrom pressingfor action onthe systemic institutional reform agenda and
 pushingharderto speed contract award andimplementation. The flawed design of the
 municipal drainage component was exacerbatedby the Bank'sprematuretermination of
 the civil works inCorozal and Orange Walk. While one can understandBank
management's desire not to further extendBankoperations inBelize following the
macro-economic crisis andthe mitigation program recommendedby the IMF, this only
made a badsituationworse. Supervision is rated moderately satisfactory. Overall
 Bank performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

Borrower Performance

 67.    While the Government appearedto have high ownership o f the project during
appraisal, this quickly waned as its macro-economicperformance deteriorated. While
entertainingthe Bank's institutional reform agenda, at the end it was indecisive and
nothing was achieved. Performancewas unsatisfactory.

68.     Implementing Agency performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. Under the
MoWT overall sector leadershipand coordinationremainedweak MoWT successfully
avoidedreforming, and introducing private sector participation for road maintenance.
Conversely, the PEUwas andremains a highly professional engineering management
unitthat dischargedits responsibilities well -the exceptions beingthe lack of attentionto
quantifying physical works andthe problems this subsequentlycausedwhen awarded
contractshadto be amended. While there were extensive delays for four ofthe six
contracts, these were more the result o f government's financial restrictions thanPEU's
inefficiency. Taking both government and agency performance together the overall
ratingfor Borrower performance is moderately unsatisfactory.

4. Looking Forward and Lessons

69,      The project clearly demonstratesthat municipal drainage cannot bedesignedand
implementedinavacuum. Physically, drainage has to beplannedon a watershedbasis
taking into account the expectedchangesto that watershed inthe future. Inmunicipal
areas this requires that careful attention be given to urbanplanning and development and
the changes inthe landuse. Factorsthat change the watershedhydrologic characteristics
suchas increasedimpermeable area, causeways, embankments andchanges oflandlevel
haveto betaken into account. Thus drainage designis an integral part ofthe three-
dimensionalurbanplanning process.

70.     The designof sustainable drainagerequiresthat there bestrong coordination of
the various aspects o furbanand service provision planning andthat one agency hasthe
final say on design. The project also clearly demonstratedthat the provision o fpublic
goods (such as drainage) isjeopardized by faulty "eminent domain" institutions. It also
clearly demonstratedthat apoor regulatory environment may allow private action by
individuals to damage public sector infrastructure. The piecemeal approach o fthe project
to municipal drainage also overlooked the fact that implementation o f drainage should

                                                 25


start from the lowest elevation and spreadupwards from there. As designed, some o f the
drainage infrastructure served to accelerateupstreamrunoffinto lower-lying areas that
had inadequate drainage, thus augmenting or shifting the location of flooding rather than
minimizing it.

71,     Good municipal management inBelize is hinderedby lack o f local autonomy, an
inadequate tax base andplanningdecisions made independently andremotely inthe
capital. There are significant untapped local resources that could greatly increase
revenues, which, ifused wisely, could build local capacity to better manage municipal
areas. A first step would be to update the property tax inventory usingobjective and
standard criteria andkeepingthese up-to-date. Additional revenue would be collected if
good governance was enhanced. Strengthened municipal magistrates courts would aid
pursuit o fthe large proportionof people who avoid paying property taxes. This requires
action from the center. Increasedrevenues could be sufficient to relieve central agencies
of the burdeno fthe physical maintenance of the municipal infrastructure. While this will
clearly provide an opportunity to contract specialist maintenance to the private sector,
considerable care has to be taken that the contracting arrangements are fair and
transparent, containperformance andexit clauses and are free from political interference.
These measures, ifimplemented, would broadly accord with the new government's
policy to devolve more authority to local government. Facilitating such an effort would
fit well withthe Bank's comparative advantage and global experience. The proposal for
the institutional reform of the MoWT i s still valid -it only requires political will to
implement it.Again, the Bankhad a considerable comparative advantage inthis area
should it wish to become re-engaged.

72.     Experience withthis project confims five IEGlessons:

0   Inadequate attentionto local institutions and their governance arrangements may
    jeopardize achievement o f urbandevelopment objectives. While it i s temptingto
    think ofinfrastructure projects asbeingfocusedonengineering, thereality inBelize
    is that little o f the infrastructure will be able to h c t i o n because sound institutions
    and good governance are weak or absent.

0 Technical Assistance inthe form of strategies         andplans for infrastructure investment
    may be ineffectual inthe absence o f a defined medium-term fiscal framework within
    which to situate them, and government ownership. As this framework was missing in
    Belize the technical assistance was effectively wasted.

0   Simple engineering solutions can deliver substantial development impacts even when
    there are adverse institutional andpolitical circumstances. Inthis project the Burrell
    Boom Bridge greatly enhancedthe capacity o f Belize's road infrastructure,
    particularly for disaster management following hurricanes.

0   Drainage androads are component parts o f town planningand cannot be planned
    independentlyor randomly. Although strong and well-coordinated planning
    institutions are pre-requisites for planning infrastructure investment for urban areas
    these were not available inBelize.

                                           26


o Drainage systems cannot be designedpiecemeal. They have to bedesignedwithinthe
  context o f a watershed, taking into account the future plans for that watershed in
 terms of landuse, and be structured insuch a way that they incrementally improve the
  drainage. The lack o f comprehensive planning andpoor sequencing o f municipal
  drainage works inBelize demonstrated that an ad hoc approach will not work.

                                        27                                 Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

BELIZEROADAND MUNICIPALDRAINAGEPROJECT(LOAN 4575-BEL)


                                     Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
                                     estimate    current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                    18.39          19.36               105
Loanamount                              13            12.44               96
Cancellation                                          0.57


CumulativeEstimatedand ActualDisbursements
                   FYOl      FY02       Fy03        Fy04        FY05        FY06
Appraisal           4.0      8.0        11.8        13.0         13.0        13.0
estimate
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)       3.5      7.4         9.4        11.0         11.7        12.5
Actual as % of      87        92         79          84          90          96
appraisal
Dateof final disbursement:  1/23/2006



                                            Original                 Actual
PCD                                                                 0911511998
Appraisal                                                           12/16/1999
Boardapproval                                                       09/05/2000
Effectiveness                                                       01/30/2001
MTR                                                                 11/01/2002
Closing date                               6/30/2004                09/30/2005




    Stage of Project Cycle           Staff weeks                  US$ (`000)
 Identification/Preparation                 32.1                       106.5
 AppraisaIINegotiation                     40.51                     162.95
 Supervision                               62.78                       399.8
 ICR                                         3.2                        29.4
 Total                                   138.59                      698.65

Annex A                                 28

-
Mission Data
          Date            No. of        Specializations      Implemen. Devel.
     (month/year)        persons         represented          status  objectives
IdentificationlPreparatio
n                          4     SR. HIGHWAYENGINEER(I);
            01/30/1998           FINANCIALANALYST (1);
                                 CONSULTANTS (1); SENIOR
                                 ENVIRONMENTALSPECIALIST
                                 (1)
            06/11/1998     5     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                 FINANCIALANALYST (1);
                                 SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL
                                 SPECIALIST (1); TECHNICAL
                                 EVALUATIONSPECIALIST(1);
                                 CONSULTANTS (1)

AppraisallNegotiation
            06/12/1999     5     SR. HIGHWAYENGINEER
                                 (1); CONSULTANT
                                 (ROADS) (1); FINANCIAL
                                 MANAGEMENT
                                 SPECIALIST (1);
                                 TECHNICAL EVALUATION
                                 SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                 ANALYST (1)
            11/22/1999     4     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                 CONSULTANT(ROADS) (1);
                                 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                 SPECIALIST (1);TECHNICAL
                                 EVALUATION SPECIALIST(1)

Supervision
            01/07/2000     1     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT            S        S
                                 SPECIALIST (1)
            01/14/2000     9     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);       S        S
                                 CONSULTANT (ROADS) (1);
                                 DRAINAGE EXPERT    -
                                 CONSULTANT (1);
                                 ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALIST
                                 (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                 TECHNICAL EVALUATION
                                 SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                 MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST (2);
                                 URBANSPECIALIST(1)
            10119/2000     4     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER(1);
                                 CONSULTANT (ROADS) (1);
                                 TECHNICAL EVALUATION
                                 SPECIALIST (1);TECHNICAL
                                 EXPERT (1)
            02/06/2001     5     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                 TECHNICAL EVALUATION
                                 SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                 MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST(1);
                                 ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALIST
                                 (1); CONSULTANT (ROADS) (1)
            06/25/2001     3     SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER(1);                 S
                                 DRAINAGE EXPERT-
                                 CONSULTANT (1); SOILS
                                 EXPERT-CONSULTANT(1)
            06/30/2001     2     FINANCIALANALIST (1);                    S
                                 ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALIST

                                        29                                Annex A


         Date            No. of          Specializations       lmplemen.   Devel.
     (monthlyear)        persons          represented            status  objectives
                                  (1)
           12113/2001      4      SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);        S         S
                                 TRANSPORT ECONOMIST(1);
                                  DRAINAGESPECIALIST    -
                                  CONSULTANT (1); SOILS
                                  EXPERT-CONSULTANT (1)
           11/01/2002      4      DRAINAGE SPECIALIST (1);         S          S
                                  ENVIRONMENTALSPECIALIST
                                  (I); TRANSPORT ECONOMIST
                                  (1); PROCUREMENT
                                  SPECIALIST (1)
           06/09/2003      1      ENVIRONMENTALSPECIALIST          S          S
                                  (1)
           12/05/2003      2      SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);        S          S
                                  DRAINAGE EXPERT    -
                                  CONSULTANT(1)
           05125/2004      1      DRAINAGE EXPERT    -             S          S
                                  CONSULTANT (1)
           11/10/2004      3      LEAD HIGHWAYENGINEER (1);        S          S
                                  DRAINAGE SPECIALIST (1);
                                  ENVIRONMENTALSPECIALIST
                                  (1)

ICR                              LEADTRANSPORT SPECIALIST          S          S
           09/02/2005            (1) ; ENVIRONMENTAL
                                 SPECIALIST (1);ECONOMIC
                                 CONSULTANT (1)


Other Project Data
Borrower/ExecutingAgency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
                Operation                Creditno.       Amount        Board date
                                                      (US$ million)

Annex B                                          30


Annex B. DrainageAssessment

 1.     Corozal. The project constructed43 percent ofthe requireddrainage but omitted the
3rd StreetNorthCanalthat would havemitigated drainagepoor drainage ofthe Skelton
Town and White Coca1subdivisions. It also omitted drainageof the 1st Street South and 7th
Avenue. Eventhenthe extent ofwork inCorozalwas less thanappraisedbecausethe long
delay incommissioning the works greatly increasedcosts at atime whenthe government's
budget crisis was at its height. This resulted inthe construction ofhigher thandesigned
elevationsto the NorthEast Magoon drains and a reducedsectionto the South East Magoon
Drain. According to the Town Council andIEGinterviews betweenone andtwo thousand
householdssuffer periodic flooding, somewhat worse thanbefore the project mainly due to
unplannedandinfilldevelopment.

2.      Dangriga. The drainage systemwas well constructedbut self-cleansing was only
partially achieved. The two rivers running west-east across the town were to be connectedby
a series of north-south collector drains with sluices that closedduring the passageof river
flood peaks. Following passageofthe river flood the sluices were to be openedandthe local
flood water thus drained, the relatively highvelocity outflow cleaningthe drains. A major
north-south drain andits sluice gate were not completed: the right ofway for the southern
halfof the PennStreet Drainwas not acquired before works startedandthe landowner
refusedto sell at the government's valuation. This drain does not self-cleanse and instead
flows out through the John Creek outfall. However this outfall gate failed shortly after the
warrantyperiodandwater backsup causing about 0.6 mdepthof flooding that affects
approximately 200 householdsinthe poorest area (Wegierale) of town.26Inthe southernpart
of the town the sea outfall for the Lakelanddrain was not constructed, the existing outfall is
completely silted, ponding inthe drain causes a healthhazard, andperiodic flooding is
exacerbatedby unplannedhousing development.

3.      San Ignacio-Santa Elena. The requireddrainage works inwere only partially
coveredby the project andflooding is now worse thanbefore inone ofthe two areas targeted
for improvement. The excellent drainage constructedunderthe project inSan Ignacio
accelerates runoff down JohnMartinez Road where it was supposedto join an open drain.
This drainwas supposedto collect the runoffandchannel it westwards through a citrus
plantation tojoin a drain plannedfor SavannahStreet that dischargedinto the Belize River.
However, neither the west flowing collector nor the SavannahStreet drainwas constructed
anddrainagefloods the lower endofJohnMartinez Road. The mainproblem, as inDangriga,
was the government's inability to acquire private landfor the works. Incontrast the covered
drainage installedinSantaElenaworks well andeliminated the flood problem. Although
serious river bank erosion underthe outfall on George Price Avenue threatenednot only the
drainage but also two properties, this was successfully remedied by the MOWT after project
completion.

4.      Orange Walk. The project mitigatedthe flooding problem inwithinthe town but
newandunplanneddevelopments have creatednew flood-prone areas. Project improvements

26.IEGinterviews with the Mayor, Administrator and Clark of Works. Dangriga, 17March2008.

                                                  31                                            Annex B


to the open lined drain linking the upstreamDunnStreet works withthe easterndrainage
lagoon were, however, not constructed. While the drainage functions the existing drain
downstreamo fthe project works lies on private property andis indanger of collapse due to
poor maintenance by the Town Council. Elsewhereinthe town the project drains are well-
maintained.27West oftown the SanLorenzo Roadculvert andthe north-south canal enlarged
by the project functions well, particularly as the town has subsequently improvedthe San
Antonio Road drain culvert. Despite these improvementsthe Area Representative
independently obtained ministerial permissionto develop a housing subdivision inthe low-
lyingareato the south of SanLorenzo Roadand this is subject to seasonalflooding.28This is
theresult ofa stand-off betweenthedeveloper andTown Council becausethe latter will not
assume responsibility for the provision of drainage androads inan area of high flood risk
that they deem inappropriate for housing.

5.       Benque Viejo. Project works were fully completedto avery high standard. Despite
this the town has subsequentlyexperiencedtwo major floods and "flooding innow worse
thanbefore the project" with considerableproperty damage.29Three problemareaswere
identified.The worst is where the easternopendrain passes under Churchill Street. Herethe
original bridge was replacedby twin culverts "the culvert is smaller than the concrete drain
andthe flow ofwater brings down garbagethat clogsthe narrower opening; beforethe
project the flood depthon the street was only 0.3 m, now reaches 1to 1.5 m." The MOWT's
view is that the culprit is subsequent constriction ofthe drain by property extensionjust
downstream. The secondproblem is that the western drainage systemwas plannedby
MOWT without consultation. The Town Council maintains that, as a result, a critical section
of drain is missing on George Street between Libertyand Guera Streets andthat this causes
local flooding. And third, a linedand covered drain that flows for about 200 mthrough the
high school yard now backs upduring heavy rain causingflooding to the school yard and
church opposite. This drainwas constructedby the SIF and links upstreamand downstream
drains later constructed by the project. The cause ofthe flooding is unclear but the MOWT is
ofthe opinion that construction of SIF drain was substandardandthat partial collapse may
haveoccurred inthe hiddenportions. Inadequatebudget for O&M has precludedrepair to
date.

6.       PuntaGorda. The town covers landthat rises gently from the coast. While the
northern areadrains directly to the sea, the southernportion initially drains southwestwards
inlandto a South East Magoonmangrove swamp andthento the sea. Although drains were
plannedfor both northern and southernareas ofthe town, only the first phasenortherndrain
was constructed. The project drain greatly increasedthe drainage capacity andthe flooding
problem to the north has been mitigated. The situation inthe southhas deterioratedfurther
and about 400 householdsare affectedby flooding 1.5 to 2 mdepth. The causes are
unplanneddevelopment, blockingofthe natural SE Magoondrain byheavy vegetationand
blockage o f its outlet by a sandbar. The unplanneddevelopment was for a Iarge shopping
boulevardpromoted by a minister inthe former government. The finance came from another
*'. A 3to 4 m sectionof the newproject drain beneathCinderellaStreet collapsedtwice in the period2004-05.
This was repairedby the MOWT.
". The area includes 120units of SocialHousingand was constructedin2003-04. At the time ofIEG's visit it
was 80% occupied.
29.IEGdiscussion with the Mayor andTown CounciI, March 14,2008

Annex B                                    32


project managed by the MoWT, the Port Authority Customs House building.The alignment
ofthe shopping boulevard's drains was not tailored to existing drains andthe drains were
made much deeper. As a result when it rains it forms a lake rather thana drain as the outlet i s
too low. Sometime after the problembecame apparent an engineer from Belmopan was
dispatched to solve the problem but the budget allocated was insufficient to complete the
redesign.

                                           33                                        Annex C


Annex C. Key Informants


         Name                 Position                      Agency/Organization

Government Officials
Ms.Yonne Hyde          ChiefExecutiveOfficer Ministry ofEconomic Development
MrDuaneBelisle         Director Project      Ministry ofEconomic Development
                       PreparationUnit
Ms.FayneNicasio        Economist             Ministry of EconomicDevelopment

Hon. Anthony Martinez  Minister              Ministry of Works

Mr.CadetHenderson      ChiefExecutiveOfficer MinistryofWorks

Mr.LennoxBradley       ChiefEngineer         MinistryofWorks

Mr.EdgarPuga           Director              ProjectExecutionUnit,Ministry of Works
Mr.Barrera             Director (Transport)  Ministry of Public Utilities, Transport,
                                             CommunicationsandNationalEmergency
                                             Management
Mr.Adolfo Ramos        District Technical    Ministry of Transport (Orange Walk)
                       Superintendent
Mr.Osorio              Director Budgetand    MinistryofFinance
                       Finance

Ms.CatherineMendez     Director National     MinistryofFinance( EULiaison)
                       Authorizing Office
Mr.JeavonHulse         Director EIA and      Ministry ofNatural Resources and Environment
                       ComplianceUnit
Mr.Aldo Cansino        Environmental         Ministry ofNatural Resources and Environment
                       Scientist

Ms.KarenWilliams       Director (Physical    Ministry ofNatural Resources andEnvironment
                       Planning)


Mr.GeorgeFrazer        Ass GeneralSecretary  National Trade Union Congress
Mr.JaimePenti          President             BelizeNational Teachers' Union

Town Councils
Mr.Hilbert0Compos      Mayor                 CorozalTown Council
Mr.LuisBrooks          Deputy Mayor          CorozalTown Council
Mr.EfrahaimGomez       Public Works Manager  CorozalTown Council
Mr.CarlosCastillo      Town Administrator    CorozalTown Council
Mr.PhilipDelaforte     Deputy Mayor          Orange Walk Town Council
Mr.EduardoLeiva        Town Administrator    Orange Walk Town Council
Mr.RobertoUrbina       Town Supervisor       Orange Walk Town Council
Mr.FloydPeters         Senior Transportation MinistryofTransport (Orange Walk)
                       Officer

Annex C                                  34


Mr.JoquinHaddad        Traffic Warden      Ministry ofTransport (Orange Walk)
Ms.VanessaNeal         Deputy Mayor        San IgnacioTown Council
Mr.ValanHyde           TownAdministrator   San IgnacioTown Council
Mr.Gerard0MarconiSosa  Mayor               BenqueViejo Town Council
Mr.SalvadorIglesias    Town Councillor     BenqueViejo Town Council
Mr.NickalRuig          Town Councillor     BenqueViejo TownCouncil
Rev. HelmutValcio      Pastor              BenqueViejo Town Council
Mr.FrankMena           Mayor               Dangriga Town Council
Mr.PeterParchue        TownAdministrator   DangrigaTown Council
Mr.Alfi-edoGangara     BuildingandPlanning Dangriga Town Council
                       Manager
Mr.CarlosGalvez        Mayor               PuntaGordaTown Council
Mrs. ReneePennell      Deputy Mayor        PuntaGordaTown Council
Mr.GlenfordHines Snr.  Acting Revenue      PuntaGordaTown Council
                       Administrator
Mr.EricLopez           Works Foreman       PuntaGordaTown Council

                                            35                                      Annex D


Annex D. BorrowerComments


Fayne Nicasio
<faynenicasio@yahoo.com>            To Mhuppi@worldbank.org, Duane Belisle
06/23/200806:17 PM                      <devbelisle@yahoo.com>
                                    cc
                                Subject comment on the Belize MunicipalDrainage Project-
                                        performancearraisal




Ms. Monika Huppi

After reviewingthe draft evaluationreport onthe BelizeMunicipalDrainageProject,theMinistry
of Economic Developmentis satisfied. The documentationof the meetingswith the ministry is
accurate. On another note, we are requesting for a hardcopy of the report to be send The
Ministry of Economic Development,Commerce, Industryand Consumer Protection;P.O. Box
42; AdministrationBuilding; Belmopan; Belize,CentralAmerica.

Also, please find attached commentsfrom the Corozal and Punta GordaTown Councils. The
otherTownCouncilsdid notforward any comments.The otherministrieswillbeforwardingtheir
commentsdirectlyto your email address.




Fayne Nicasio
Policy & Planning Unit
Ministry Of NationalDevelopment
P.O. Box42
Belmopan,Belize
C.A
Tel: (501) 822-252617

Annex D                                     36



                            Corazal Town CouncI1

Tel: 422-2072 Fax:422-2978

Email: ctcczl@btl.net


20*. June, 2008
FROM:           CorozalTown Council
TO:             Sector EvaluationDivision
                IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)
RE:             Observations on Roads and Municipal Drainage Project as it pertainsto
                Corozal Town




    1. The projectdid not improvethe natural drainage nor reducethe impact of heavy
       rains inthe White Cocal Area and SkeletonTown. We still have several unlined
       drains which are difficult to maintain due to the Council'sfinancial constraints.
   2. The Council, with its very limited resources, has been able to provide some relief by
       offering landfillto residents and ensuring that all drains are maintainedfree of debris
       that would impede the flow of water.
   3. Students in the above-mentionedareas are affected severely as it becomesvery
       difficult for them to attend school when there is flooding intheir areas. There are
       also several health risks
   4. Attention needsto be given to the Third Street North Canal when trying to solve the
       flooding problem in the White Cocal Area and SkeletonTown.
   5. The Port SaulArea also needs special attention beforethe rains come again.
   6. The Council has been successfulto a large extent in preventingfly dumping and
       closely monitorsthe dumping of garbage being done at the official dump site along
       the Consejo Road.
   7. There needsto be accountability and transparencyin whatever is done on behalf of
       the residentsof any community. There must be the proper check and balances
       mechanisms in place.

Respectfully submitted,




Hilbert0Campos
Mayor.

                                             37                                 Annex D


                        PuntaGorda Town Council
                                 Tel: 722-2235 Fax: 702-2321

                               Email: pienicouncil@vahoo.com


~~




  23rd.June, 2008
  FROM:         Punta GordaTown Council
  TO:           Sector EvaluationDivision,
                Independent EvaluationGroup (World Bank)
  RE:           Observations on Roads and MunicipalDrainage Project as it pertainsto
                Corozal Town



     9 The Projectwas a success

     9 The household residentscommendedthe assistancebyWB to increasethe drainage
        capacity in the northeasternPunta Gorda.

     Presently projects

        Presently a boulevard is being constructedinthe southeasternPGwhich will create a
        pathfor the outlet of the magoondrains inthat area. However,the uncertaintyof funds
        has the projectfloating inthe air right now more so no budget is available

        This project should impact more than 500 households. Complaints have been
        overflowing as the residentsfore see the needfor properdrainageinthe southeastern
        area of Punta Gorda also

        Rehabilitationprojectfor West Street started in 2003 is still incompletewhich included
        upgrading of concrete drains and side walks. If this project was completedthis would
        have alleviated a significant amount of the flooding because the magoon drains pass
        directly through these sidewalks

        In the interim, Ministry of Works continues to support the councils by maintainingthe
        drains. However, it can only be done one time a year due to the unavailabilityof funds.

        There is no money budgetedfor the maintenanceof drains not only in PG but also all
        other municipalitiesin which drains were constructed because of small revenue base


 Yours Respectfully,


 Carlos Galvez
 Mayor


