Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22459
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-23260; TF-20283; TF-22235)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FOR A
LOBITO/BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project ID: P000035
L/C Number: 2326-AO
06/26/2001
Water and Urban 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/17/2001)
Currency Unit = Kwanza (KZ)
KZ 1 = US$ 0.052
US$ 1 = 19.37
FISCAL YEAR
Government & Public Enterprises  January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBO           Community Based Organisation
DPSC          Diretoria Provincial de Servi,os Conumunitarios (Provincial Directorate of Community
Services)
EAS           Empresa de Aguas e Saneamento (Water Supply and Sanitation Companies)
EASB          Empresa de Aguas e Saneamento de Benguela (Provincial Water Company ofBenguela)
EASL          Empresa de Aguas e Saneamento de Lobito (Provincial Water Company of Lobito)
EPAB          Empresa Provincial de Aguas de Benguela (Provincial Water Company)
GPP           Gabinete Provincial do Plano (Provincial Planning Office)
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Agency
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NGO           Non-Governmental Organisation
PMU           Project Management Unit
PRUALB        Projecto de Reabilitacao Urbana Ambiental de Lobito-Benguela (the Project)
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
TA            Technical Assistance
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Darius Mans
Sector Manager:   Jeffrey Racki
Task Team Leader:    Lance Morrell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANGOLA
LOBITO/BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  10
6. Sustainability                                                                      13
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                       14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     15
9. Partner Comments                                                                    16
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  26
Annex 8. Implementation Indicators                                                     27
Annex 9. Health Indicators                                                             33
Annex 10. Borrower's Comments                                                          34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000035                                        Project Name: LOBITO/BENG.REHAB.
Team Leader: Lance Alan Morrell                            TL Unit. AFTUI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: LOBITO/BENG.REHAB.                              L/C/TF Number: IDA-23260; TF-20283;
TF-22235
Country/Department: ANGOLA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: US - Urban Environment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/14/1989                               Effective: 04/16/1993
Appraisal:  04/10/1991                                 MTR.  10/31/1994            11/01/1994
Approval:  01/07/1992                               Closing: 09/30/1998           07/31/2000
Borrower/IInplementing Agency: GOVT OF ANGOLA/PROVINCE OF BENGUELA
Other Partners:  Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA) and Norwegian Agency for
International Development (NORAD)
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Callisto Madavo                            E. Jaycox
Country Manager:      Darius Mans                                F. Aguirre-Sacassa
Sector Manager:       Jeffrey Racki                              M. Blanc
Team Leader at ICR:   Lance Moffell
ICR Primary Author:   Norma Dixo; Robert Varley
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Project's objectives as stated in the SAR (Report No. 9794-ANG), dated November 19, 1991 were to:
(i) eliminate life-threatening epidemics, improve the health of the population, and halt the degradation of the
physical environment by restoring the water supply and failed sanitary systems; (ii) improve living
conditions in the squatter settlements by providing access to clean water, improved latrines, and a
re-vegetation program; (iii) strengthen the institutions responsible for current operation, management, and
control of urban services and environment by providing technical assistance, logistical support and training;
and (iv) assist in policy reform through water and sewer tariffs, land registration and environmental studies.
The Project's objectives were clearly defined. Improving sanitary conditions in Lobito-Benguela was
identified early as a Provincial Government priority. The Bank strategies for the sector - provision of water
supply and sanitation for the majority of the population, and especially for the low-income groups - were
consistent with Government objectives.
Considering the fact that the country was only recently emerging from a long civil war and that the
conditions in Lobito-Benguela were disastrous with tons of garbage and numerous unplanned dumps,
serious environmental degradation and human feces literally everywhere, and all infrastructure systems
broken-down, it was appropriate that the Project targeted a broad-based recovery of the physical
environment through integrated actions in water supply, sewerage, solid waste and environment. The
objectives were, however, very ambitious considering that the Borrower had no experience with Bank
financed projects and had limited institutional capacity. In addition, support to the institutional components
was lirnited to the provision of technical assistance, logistical support and training. These interventions
were not enough to ensure satisfactory implementation and sustainability of the Project, which required
policy reform and new institutional arrangements. The time afforded by this Project was too short to build
well-staffed and efficient agencies. Under the circumstances, a less ambitious emergency project would
have been more appropriate.
During the Project's life there was: (i) a general shortage of qualified human resources; and (ii) extreme
political and economic instability due to the war. However, despite these problems, the Project was able to
introduce new ideas such as cost-recovery from user tariffs, commerically-oriented utilities, business-type
management methods, the decentralization of decision making, and the participation by communities in
managing their own affairs. In addition, the Project had a permanent impact on the population through the
introduction of new ideas and programs which resulted in significant improvements in the quality of life in
the peri-urban areas.
The Project was rated a highly complex and risky undertaking because: (i) it was the first IDA investment
project in Angola; (ii) it was one of the first Bank projects in Africa designed to rehabilitate the urban
environment; (iii) there were notable institutional weaknesses; (iv) stability and peace had not yet been
achieved; and (v) inadequate communications in the Lobito-Benguela region would lead to implementation
difficulties. The post conflict environment in Angola and the fact that the Project was prepared very
quickly in order to respond to the emergency conditions compounded the risks associated with the Project.
3.2 Revised Objective:
During the mid-term review, the Project was restructured. However, since the original project objectives
were broad, there was no need to formally reformulate the project's development objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
-2 -



The following components were specified to achieve the above objectives:
a) Environmental Sanitation (US$26.2 million):
rehabilitation and expansion of the water-supply systems; and
* rehabilitation, expansion and implementation of sewage collection, solid-waste management systems,
storm drainage and erosion control network.
b) Low-Income Sanitation (US$3.9 million):
* provision of clean urban water to all unplanned settlements via a network of 500 standpipes and
laundry facilities;
*  improved latrine program and sanitary-environmental education program; and
urban re-vegetation program in the unplanned settlements.
c) Institutional Development (US$8.7 million):
technical assistance, training and logistical/administrative support for the: -
Provincial Water Company (Empresa Provincial de Aguas de Benguela - EPAB);
Provincial Directorate of Community Services (Diretoria Provincial de Servicos Comunitarios -
(DPSC)); and
Provincial Planning Office (Gabinete Provincial do Plano - GPP).
d) Studies (US$6.3 million):
detailed engineering for the water-supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage components, and
supervision of their execution;
* water and sewer tariffs, and institutional reorganization of the Provincial Water Company;
environmental management and monitoring;
- auditing of project accounts;
- preparation of follow-up infrastructure-sector projects identified during irnplementation; and
development of a geographic information system (GIS) and a pilot land registration program
(LARGIS).
The Project (PRUALB) was one of the first IDA-financed urban-environmental rehabilitation projects in
Africa and promised lessons that could be incorporated in subsequent projects. The Project itself had
incorporated lessons from urban infrastructure rehabilitation projects in other African countries, such as
the need to recover the costs of urban services and the importance of basic sanitation (latrines) for
low-income groups. The design of the components was generally adequate to achieving the project's
objectives but overestimated the effectiveness of technical assistance to improve institutional capacity.
The Project was successful in making significant changes in the policy framework affecting the water
supply and sanitation sector and in strengthening the institutions delivering critcal urban services in Lobito
and Benguela despite the very weak condition of these institutions at the start of the Project. As a result of
the Project, commercially-oriented utilities replaced the non-functioning provincial water company, and a
new tariff policy was implemented for both water supply and sewerage services. In addition, the Project
also significantly improved the quality of life of the residents in both the urban and peri-urban areas which
will be sustainable because of the active community participation in the design and operation of the Project.
3.4 Revised Components:
The mid-term review (MTR), in November 1994, was at the end of the most violent phase of the civil war.
At that time, the general feeling of optimism regarding the future was replaced by uncertainty, causing the
population to look to the future with suspicion, while the intemational community withdrew from many
- 3 -



plans for immediate investment in Angola. As a result of the changes in the political and security
conditions, some additional works were included at the MTR as a direct consequence of the return to the
war in 1992. Since these new works had not been anticipated during project appraisal, funds had to be
reallocated within the Project in order to finance those elements which were considered to be the most
critical to the success of the Project. Some of these additional works included the rehabilitation of the
power production and distribution systems which were essential for adequate operation of the water and
sewer systems. It was also necessary to rehabilitate parts of the electricity network damaged by war to
ensure the proper functioning of the PRUALB works. Unfortunately, many of these changes resulted in
reallocating IDA funds away from the low cost elements of the Project in order to provide additional
financing for the critical civil works. While this decision appears to have been well warranted, it had a
negative impact on the low cost components of the Project. To ensure accomplishing the project objectives
and sustainability, the following adjustments were agreed during the mid-term review:
Canceled:
some stormwater drains for Lobito and Benguela; and
development of the geographic information system and the land registration (LARGIS).
Downsized:
capacity of the Benguela waste stabilization pond system;
sewer system for the city of Benguela;
sewer system of Lobito (Compao); and
rehabilitation of part of the Vala do Coringe drainage channel.
Additional civil works:
electricity connections for the water pumping stations;
rehabilitation of the pumping stations;
rehabilitation of the old parts of the water supply systems; and
house connections to the sewer system.
Revised components:
the Environmental Management and Monitoring Study was split into two separate studies: Water
Monitoring Study was carried out by EPAB, and Environmental Management Study was carried
out by the GPP;
the solid-waste component was restructured as part of the Low-Cost Sanitation component with a
view to ensuring its sustainability; and
the funding for sanitation for the low-income population component (latrines, education, re-
vegetation) was reduced and the Provincial Government undertook to finance this.
Component                                 Cost                        Rating
REHABILITATION OF THE WATER SUPPLY               $48,200,000                 S
LOW COST SANITATION                                $9,300,000                S
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                        $8,300,000                       S
The MTR responded effectively to changes in the environmnent and did so with the active participation of
the client. The MTR made a significant number of changes to the design of the Project which were
instrumental in the Project being able to satisfactorily achieve its development objectives.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
-4 -



At the time of project preparation, there was no Quality Assurance Group. The Project activities were
consistent with the country strategy and Bank safeguards as well as the government's priority to improve
basic services for the peri-urban areas. At the time of project preparation, environmental management and
community participation were not yet part of the Bank's safeguards, but the Project advanced both.
However, the ICR assesses the quality at entry as unsatisfactory because of the omissions in the design of
the Project which would ultimately have a negative impact the sustainability of the investments.
As was stated in para. 3. 1, the living conditions in Lobito-Benguela at the time of project preparation were
of an emergency nature, and the Bank team responded well to the extremely difficult conditions by
preparing the Project very quickly. The team was also very effective in developing ownership for the
Project and in identifying that the Provincial Government should be the implementing agency and not one of
the Central Government Ministries. It is because of this strong ownership by the Provincial Government
that the Project was able to satisfactorily achieve its development objectives despite the omissions in the
design.
While the emergency conditions demanded a rapid response by the Bank, more time should have been
provided for the preparation of the Project considering the conditions that existed: the lack of adequate data
and of qualified local staff, and the total absence of effective governmental institutions and private
companies. The Project was too ambitious considering the institutional and managerial weaknesses, and no
real mechanism was incorporated in the Project to adequately address these deficiencies. In addition, no
provision was made to resolve the inadequate sectoral policies and regulations, and the socio-economic and
political instability caused by years of fighting. The Staff Appraisal Report correctly identified one of the
most significant risks - the borrower's lack of familiarity with the Bank's procedures. However, the only
step taken to address this was the use of a short-term procurement specialist. Given the complexity of the
Project and of the Bank's procedures, the Project should have provided far more training and support to the
GPP staff. The original cost estimates of the civil works were too low since the detailed engineering was
not completed prior to appraisal. This resulted in major changes to the components at the MTR and forced
the Borrower to finance an increased share of the low cost sanitation component. Costs were also
increased, at project design, by the use of high-cost solutions such as gas chlorination for water
disinfection, concrete lining for the channel Vala do Coringe, expansion of the sewer system in the city of
Benguela, the introduction of the sewage pumping station, and inappropriate trucks/equipment for solid
waste collection given the low economic level and weak institutional capacity of the Province. The Project
was dependent on other key interventions being completed (e.g., power rehabilitation). Finally, the design
did not identify the need for key physical interventions to combat water losses or to improve the water
utilities commercial performance such as through the introduction of universal metering.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project achieved most of its major objectives satisfactorily - improving public health and halting
environmental degradation. (The objective to "eliminate life-threatening epidemics" was far too ambitious.)
The project objectives, as measured by the indicators were achieved as planned (see Annex 8), except for
the number of latrines which was about 25% of target (see section 4.2 Outputs by Components). The
Project reached a large portion of the entire population of Lobito-Benguela, despite the unanticipated large
population increases due to the war (see Annex 9), and the institutional strengthening and policy changes
had a positive impact on the local service delivery and on the national water supply and sanitation sector.
Basic urban infrastructure and services were rehabilitated and coverage extended to peri-urban areas. The
Project created a demand for latrines in a culture unfamiliar with on-site sanitation. These changes
- 5 -



improved public health, helping to elimninate cholera and to decrease the mortality and morbidity from
malaria and diarrheal diseases (see Annex 9). The reduction of diseases is connected with various combined
effects of integrated project actions, such as: the increase in the quantity of potable water available coupled
with the improvement in its quality, appropriate excreta disposal through use of latrines, reduction of trash
accumulations and improvement in the population's hygiene practices as outcomes of the health and
environmental education program. The reduction is also associated with the period of food for work
provided by several donors. Standpipes in peri-urban areas provided lower cost water to the poor, and
saved time fetching water. Private operators managed the operation of the standpipes and washing-basins,
creating employment within the communities, as well as achieving complete cost recovery for operation and
maintenance. Re-vegetation, which expanded significantly beyond the modest program proposed, had a
considerable impact on the living conditions in the peri-urban areas. In general, the low cost elements of
the Project were actively supported by the communities and led to a significant improvement in the overall
quality of life in the peri-urban areas.
While the physical improvements realized were significant, the Project also contributed to a large number
of policy changes which will have a positive long-term impact on the sector (see section 4.2D) For
example, the Project led to the adoption of the principle of cost recovery by the central, provincial and
municipal governments, as well as by the communities. Community mobilization, participation, and
govemment/community/NGO cooperation were all adopted as a means of sustaining infrastructure and
services.  The Project also resulted in the implementation of a water and sewer tariff policy and the
decentralization of the authority to assess and collect tariff-based charges, fostering the development of
public utilities run on a quasi-commercial basis. (Tariffs for water supply increased from US$0.02/cubic
meter in 1994 to about US$0.20/cubic meter in January 2000 (see section 6.1)). The Project also had a
major impact on the development of the institutional capacity of key agencies, and the use of focused
technical assistance provided by an operating water supply company in Brazil effectively supported the
concept of Leaming By Doing that had been introduced in both the newly created water supply and
sanitation companies and in the project management unit.
The above positive results of the Project must be offset by the fact that the Provincial Government did not
fully implement the higher water and sewer tariffs as specified in the policy as those needed to sustain the
investments and the improved service delivery. The environmental policy objective was not fully achieved,
since the Project did not complete the programmed studies or provide the necessary technical assistance.
The Project did, however, create and establish some measure of integrated management of the environment
through the health and environmental education program and the implementation of the improved-latrines
and solid-waste programs.
In general, the civil works constructed under the Project are of good quality. However the international
contractor responsible for the majority of the works abandoned the work leaving parts of it unfinished (see
section 5.1 - Performance of the civil works contractor). While not all of the sub-elements of the Project
were fully realized, the positive physical and qualitative accomplishments of the Project clearly
out-weighed those areas where the sub-elements were only partially achieved.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The contribution of each major component to the project objectives.
Objective 1: Restore the water supply and failed sanitary systems in order to help eliminate
life-threatening epidemics, improve the heath of the population, and halt the degradation of the
physical environment.
-6 -



A. Environmental Sanitation Component - Rehabilitation of the Water Supply and Sanitation Systems.
The physical component of the objective was satisfactorily achieved - the Project restored the water
supply infrastructure and extended services to peri-urban areas. Prior to the Project, 65% of the total
population living in the area were not served by the existing water systems. Following the rehabilitation of
the water systems, the total water production capacity of the two cities more than doubled, from 1070 m3/h
(1991) to 2696 m3/h (1999). Domestic water connection coverage in the urban areas increased from 35 to
43% and the coverage in the peri-urban areas was increased from zero to approximately 80% by expanding
the network and constructing 349 standpipes. Private operators, mostly community members under
contract with the water companies, managed these standpipes.
The water production capacities achieved by the end of the Project (1490 m3/h for Lobito and 1206 m3/h
for Benguela) were higher than the targets set in the SAR - 1000 m3/h for each city respectively. Water
production increased initially when the systems were inaugurated in 1997, but subsequently decreased to
less than the installed capacity, 55% and 62% respectively for Lobito and Benguela, due to frequent
interruptions of the electric power needed to run the pumps and by the inappropriate design for the pump
cables. The design problem was corrected at the end of the project, and it is expected that this improved
water production.
The Project expanded the water supply network to peri-urban areas through the installation of 115 Km (65
km for Lobito and 50 km for Benguela) of new secondary piping to provide water for 349 standpipes (218
in Lobito and 131 in Benguela). According to a Beneficiary Assessment undertaken during the Project
(Oxfam, The Lobizo-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project - A Beneficiary Assessment,
1999), the population of the peri-urban areas that benefited from the standpipes recognized that the water
supply had been greatly improved by the Project. The Beneficiary Study criticized "high" relative prices
charged at the standpipes (US$ 0.50/m3), compared to house connections (US$ 0.115/m.3). A more
relevant comparison is the price in the peri-urban areas before and after the Project - post-project prices
were 91% lower than those before. By the end of the Project there were, however, a number of operational
problems including some illegal connections preventing delivery of water to all 349 standpipes. The level
of supply provided by the standpipes at the end of the Project declined due to interruptions in water
production and poor placement of pumps leading to inadequate pressure. Few of the problems are related
to bad management of the standpipes. In addition, a major water transmission pipeline is functioning but
was never able to achieve its design capacity because the contractor installed pipes which did not meet
design specifications. These unfinished works have negatively impacted the current performance of the
systems - particularly the operation of certain standpipes and some pumping equipment.
While the physical design of the water supply systems introduced some technologies unsuitable for the local
circumstances and the utilities' operating conditions, such as gaseous chlorine for disinfecting the water
requires well-trained staff for its handling and entails a high operating cost, the overall impact of the
Project was extremely positive. Water is now being provided throughout the urban areas and to a large
percentage of the peri-urban areas. Water is now being provided on a regular basis to areas which had
never received water before this Project. In addition, due to the rapid population growth during the
implementation period, as a result of the continuous influx of displaced persons, the number of people with
access to piped water exceeded the levels targeted in the SAR.
Rehabilitation of The Sewage Collection Systems. The objective of improving sewage collection and
diverting sewage from the central area and thereby increasing commercial activity in the two cities was
achieved satisfactorily. 419 sewer connections were installed, by the Project, in properties identified as
having the highest water consumption (see Annex 8). In February 2001, there were 789 sewer connections
in the two cities. The systems meet the objective of diverting sewage from direct contact with people and
- 7 -



improving the overall urban environmental conditions. However, the following factors have reduced the
effectiveness of the systems:
(i) The original project design called for house connections to be paid for by the users, but in the course of
project implementation this was found to be unfeasible. Some connections were included as new cost items
in the mid-term review. Although the number of connections has increased by 90% over the life of the
Project, the current number represents only 10% of the system's installed capacity. Consequently, the
system operates at below optimal capacity with reduced hydraulic performance, increasing the revenue
needed by the sanitation utility to cover system operating and maintenance costs.
(ii) While the systems divert sewage from direct contact with people, they do not prevent pollution of the
environment - a part of the raw sewage ends up being discharged into the sea. This is caused by the
frequent interruption of the power needed to run the pumps that lift the sewage up to the treatment plants.
In the project design, PRUALB was to have been supplied with power by the Lobito Corridor Project - all
the Biopio and Lumaum hydroelectric and thermal power plants were to have been fully operational in
1993. This did not happen once the war resumed in 1992 leading to a need for generators to power the
pumps.
(iii) Sewage pumping stations need a dedicated and trained workforce, but an insufficient number of staff
was added and inadequate labor training was provided under the Project. The tools and equipment needed
for ensuring proper operation and maintenance of the expanded and rehabilitated systems were not mrade
available. The weakness of the technical assistance was the primary cause of the failure to implement a
training program for operation and maintenance of the systems.
Rehabilitation of the Erosion and Rainwater Runoff Control System. At the time of the MTR, the rainwater
runoff system for Benguela was scaled down from its initial dimensions and reduced to the construction of
a 4.0 km open concrete canal (Vala do Coringe). The canal is a highly visible project component that
produced the desired protection against flooding. The canal accounted for 10% of the total cost of the
Project. As with the previous sub-components, the work included in this sub-component was successfully
completed and the objectives achieved, however, the Project could have made use of simpler and less costly
technologies better suited to the Province's economic conditions, such as rocks (gabions) and/or compacted
soil plus plant cover for the lining of the canal.
Objective 2: Improve living conditions in the squafter settlements by providing access to clean water
and improved latrines
B. The Low Cost Sanitation Component's goals were achieved satisfactorilv. The integration of water and
waste management (waste management in the Project includes urban and pern-urban sanitation (latrines)
and solid waste) improved public and family health by reducing related diseases, halting environmental
degradation and improving environmental conditions. This component helped eliminate cholera deaths, and
lower the incidence of other major diseases. Child mortality rates fell from 30% and 45% respectively in
Benguela and Lobito in 1990, to about 19% in 1997 for both cities. From 1990 to 1998, the mortality
rates for malaria declined by 79% and 74% in Lobito and Benguela respectively, and cholera was
eliminated in both cities. These decreases are attributed to the combined effects of improved sanitation and
availability of water, together with the availability of food aid and food for work programs.
The Project targeted environrnental improvements to benefit the poorer population and introduced the
improved dry-pit latrine to Angola.  The Project established local capacity for the production and
installation of the technology. Intensive latrine promotion created demand for latrines and a market for the
- 8 -



production and sale of the latrine slabs evolved. The improved-latrines program brought the changes in the
behavior and attitudes required to sustain improvements in health. Prior to the Project, open-air defecation
was prevalent due to the habits of the refugees and displaced persons who had moved to the area. The
re-vegetation component created an intense demand for trees, and led the private sector and NGOs to
consider using the trees for commercial production.
Improved Latrines and Sanitary-Environmental Education Program: This component achieved the objective
of improving living standards satisfactorily. The Project produced and distributed latrine slabs, and
assisted in the implementation of 24,574 improved family latrines benefiting around 25,000 famnilies, 25%
of the year 2000 peri-urban population. Training, and education/infornation camnpaigns created awareness
of the relationship between health and environment. Provincial health-workers, community leaders and
mobilizers, NGOs and community based organizations (CBOs), and other civic society groups participated
in this program. The Project provided training in improved-latrine slab production for its own municipal
staff as well as 28 artisans for churches and local! international NGOs in the project area, as well as for
other provinces. Some 755 sanitary-environmental education mobilizers were trained for the communities
and national/ international NGOs, and 69 trainers for communities, NGOs, and the Provincial Health
Delegation of the Benguela Hospital.
The latrine and sanitary environmental education program had a signficant and permanent impact on the
quality of life for the residents of the peri-urban communities, but this program could have had an even
greater impact had it not been for the fact that it was 100% dependent on the availability of counterpart
funds (changed at the MTR from the original 10% Government financing). The lack of counterpart
funding negatively affected all aspects of the manufacturing process as well access to adequate infornation,
production, distribution and dissemination of education materials and methods, exchange of experiences
within communities, and monitoring of activities and results.
Solid Waste Management was also introduced and improved livinz standards The Project introduced
integrated low-cost urban waste management for the cities and established community waste management
for the peri-urban areas. Trash that had accumulated since the beginning of the war was removed and
followed-up with regular trash collection service.  Street children and elderly women in the urban areas
benefited from the proceeds received from recycling and a start was made on composting in the poor
neighborhoods. The Project introduced cost recovery for urban waste management through the introduction
of a tariff for collection from the major producers, and supported reorganizing solid-waste management to
include private contractors. Over 4,500 tons of accumulated waste in the urban areas was removed and
waste collection coverage raised from less than 10% to 100%. Regular collection increased from 3,845 to
32,383 m3/yr, from 1990-97. In late 1999, collections declined to 11,588 m3/yr, when the responsibility
was transferred from the project unit to the Municipal Administrations.
The Re-vegetation Progiram facilitated drainage of household and standpipe wastewater. extended the
life-span of the latrines, and supported disease control.  The trees and plants were used to provide
firewood, livestock fodder, and traditional medicines, and also enhanced soil fertility. The program resulted
in a mostly family-based peri-urban effort with 2.6 million saplings produced and distributed, roughly 2
trees/inhabitant or 21/peri-urban family. Tree planting initiated erosion control of the beaches and selected
slopes, and restored traditional knowledge and manufacturing by using the re-established plants. Years
earlier, these trees had been used to produce traditional products which could be sold for cash. Peri-urban
women and street children received training in tree production techniques. The Project rehabilitated the
historic Benguela Botanical Garden and re-equipped Catumbela Arboretum. A large neighborhood trash
dump was reclaimed to further increase Benguela nursery production. The nurseries included schools for
street children who both received and disseminated educational material on sanitation and the environment
-9-



as well as on tree production.
Objective 3: Strengthen the institutions responsible for the project management and operation,
management and control of the urban services and of the environment by providing technical
assistance, logistical support and training
C. Institutional Development Component.
Project Management. The Project was successful in strengthening the management of the Project and in the
operation and management of basic urban services. The initial group of expatriate consultants selected to
provide the technical and operational support to the Provincial Government for the Project were replaced,
starting in 1996, with a team of locally recruited Angolan professionals. By the end of the Project, the
local staff had assumed full responsibility for all aspects of the management and implementation of the
Project (see section 5.3). During the life of the Project, the institutional capacity of local staff in both the
project unit as well as in the water supply and sanitation companies improved significantly. The emphasis
on Learning By Doing supplemented by focused technical assistance proved to be extremely effective.
Thus the strengthening of the local management was satisfactorily achieved.
The Creation of the Water Supply and Sanitation Companies (EAS). PRUALB was the first project in the
sector and in the Province and it created the basis for the institutional development needed to sustain water
supply and sanitation services. As a result of the Project, the former Provincial Water Company of
Benguela (EPAB) was divided into two independent enterprises, one responsible for services in Benguela -
EASB and the other for those in Lobito - EA SL. A sanitation division was set up in each of them. These
companies demonstrated significant improvements in the spheres of administration, billing and collection,
and there was a significant improvement in the local human resources, despite the difficulties in attracting
qualified professionals created by low salaries. Between 1995 and the end of the Project, the EAS staff
with more than a fifth grade education increased to over 40%. Qualified local staff (university graduates
plus secondary/high school plus basic education) grew from 2.1% to 14.4%. Most of these new staff
started with the project implementation unit and were integrated into the companies.
The institutional support financed from the Project was mostly in the form of technical assistance and
training, and while the newly established companies (EASL and EASB) functioned better than the old
EPAB, the Project encountered difficulties in delivering effective operational and management technical
assistance. The technical assistance (TA) was to be used for training of management and operation and
maintenance personnel and for the procurement of new equipment and tools, however, the original TA was
delayed and later the contract was suspended when the assistance proved to be inadequate, and
inappropriate for the task. The follow-up with more appropriate TA was delayed by the resurgence of the
war in 1998, and thus limited the amount of time left before project completion. The impact of the limited
TA which was provided to the EASs was dramatic. The staff eagerly introduced the new concepts and
systems, and introduced additional innovations by adapting the concepts presented to the local environment.
The management and staff recognize that they need to continue to strengthen the EASs, but the first
important step has been taken and their commitment and ownership has been established.
The Provincial Directorate of Community Services (DPSC) was reorganized by the provincial government.
The reorganization transferred the responsibility for major urban services, including solid waste
management, to the Municipal Administrations, while the DPSC remained responsible for regulation,
monitoring and quality control. The technical assistance and training planned for the DPSC and the
Municipal Administrations were not implemented due to organizational issues and changes in governmental
priorities, significantly affecting the finalization of the solid waste management system and implementation
- 10 -



of the other low cost components. Neither the Municipal Administrations nor DPSC were able to develop
the capacity needed largely due to the fact that the low salaries offered for the positions failed to attract
qualified personnel.
Creating environmental management capacity through the Provincial Planning Office (GPP) was not
achieved satisfactorily.   TA for environmental management provided through a consulting firm was
inadequate.
Objective 4: Assist in policy reform through water and sewer tariff, land registration and environment
studies.
D. Studies Component.
The institutional studies resulted in satisfactorily achieving support in policy reform through the
establishment of EASB and EASL, the introduction of commercial priciples to the organizations
responsible for the delivery of urban services, and the initiation of a process to convert these utilities into
public companies was agreed with the Ministry of Energy and Water. The Project influenced and assisted
the Government's reform agenda in the following ways: (i) in 1995, the Ministry of Energy and Water
instituted a policy of cost recovery that envisaged tariff increases aimed at gradually achieving full cost
recovery - the implementation of the increases was controlled by the Ministry of Finance; (ii) in 1998, the
Ministry of Finance devolved the authority to implement future tariff increases for water supply to the
provincial governments; (iii) the Provincial Government of Benguela introduced a policy to recover the
cost of providing sewerage services in the cities of Lobito and Benguela; (iv) the Provincial Government of
Benguela agreed to increase the real tariff by 15% every six months to enable the water companies to
recover their costs, however, these increases were not implemented on a regular basis; (v) the Provincial
Government of Benguela introduced a policy to recover the cost of providing solid waste removal services
in the cities of Lobito and Benguela; and (vi) the Project promoted the integration of environment and
health issues through a health and environmental education program which was informally incorporated
into the primary education curriculum and used by the local university.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic rate of return or net present value was calculated at the appraisal. It was noted, however,
that the entire population would benefit economically from access to affordable clean water and improved
sanitation, and that women and children would be the largest beneficiaries. It was also noted that the
Project would create an estimated 2,800 man-years of employment which was later supported by the
comrnents to this ICR provided by the Provincial Government (see section 9) that.. " the Project also
contributed to alleviate the regional poverty by assisting in the creation of local firms.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Due to a lack of data, no Financial Rate of Return was calculated for the SAR. At the time, it was noted
that meaningful financial information was not available owing to weak financial management and the
absence of adequate accounting systems. This has not changed greatly and the accounts that are available
are on a cash basis and only some of the costs of operation are identifiable. The Provincial Government
pays the balance such as the salaries of the staff. The SAR did state that, "i.e. priority of the technical
assistance to EPAB will be the establishment of coherent accrual accounting systems in Lobito and
Benguela". However, this was not achieved. It is unlikely that an effective commercially oriented
accounting system will be implemented until the utilities are given real autonomy and established as public
companies.
- 11 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
As described above, there have been substantial institutional achievements, but the development is far from
complete. Without a continued pressence in the sector by IDA and/or similar development institutions, the
benefits realized from the Project are unlikely to be sustained, because of institutional deficiencies, the
shortage of provincial funds to subsidize operations, and the need to continually engage the agencies and
key officials in order to introduce and explain the benefits of commercially-oriented enterprises.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Project was implemented during a period of great political and economic volatility. The 1991 peace
agreement and also the momentum for reform were short-lived as hostilities renewed after the 1992
elections. Despite a further period of peace between 1994 and 1998, harmony was never fully achieved.
The constant fear of renewed civil strife resulted in a diversion of resources away from development
activities. At various points during this period, the Government started new reform initiatives, but these
initiatives could not be consistently sustained because of the uncertain political and economic situation.
Constant uncertainity on several fronts inevitably delayed project implementation. The political and
economic volitality also contributed to the uneven pace of implementation.
The chief factors outside of the Government's control were:
Instability and insecurity from two periods of civil war impacted the contracting procedures and also the
performance of consultants and contractors. In 1993, the war hindered key IDA and Government decisions
crucial for the contracting of the technical assistance for project management (GPP) and for the selection of
the main international contractor. Thousands of war refugees moved into the Lobito-Benguela region,
further overloading the weak institutions and the cities' deteriorated infrastructure. The escalation of the
war in 1998-99 complicated the starting of the second technical assistance to the EASs to replace the
aborted first one. Kwanza depreciation against the dollar, inflation and delays in counterpart funding
complicated the implementation of counterpart-funded components, including those essential for
sustainability of the solid waste and latrine components.
Costs were underestimated. The increased cost of rehabilitating the water, sewer and stormwater drainage
systems, due to under-estimates at the time of appraisal and the higher than expected population growth,
required reallocation of funds at the MTR away from the low cost components. The Government's share of
costs increased from 11 to 12%, complicating implementation of counterpart funded components essential
for ensuring the sustainability of solid waste management and improved latrines components.
Difficulties in the procurement processes. The number of procurement processes and their timing were
different from those anticipated. Procurement support for project management was necessary since there
were no simple solutions available, and adequate provisions for such support was not included in the
Project design. The Credit Agreement did not include procurement mechanisms such as "international
shopping and local shopping".
Performance of the civil works contractor. The contracts for the major works including the water
distribution lines (US$ 10 million) and a storm water drainage and sewage system (US$ 21 million) were
amended in 1995 increasing costs by over $ 7 million to a total of US$ 38.3 million. However, due to
disputes with the contractor, the works which had been originally programed for completion in 18 months,
starting in December 1993, were only about 90% complete 40 months later when the contractor "walked
- 12-



off' the job. A settlement agreement at a total contract cost of US$ 35.6 million was reached in May 1998,
following a year of bitter negotiations and impasses between the Govermment and the contractor during
which time no work was performed. The Govemment was left with about US$860,000 of outstanding
works. In addition, while a water transmission main (Catumbela pipeline) was operating effectively, it was
not constructed to specifications. The supervising and design engineers had originally been selected under
a contract financed from bi-lateral funds. The original contract was for 18 months to match the
implementation of the civil works. The consultancy contract was then extended to ensure the supervision
of the civil works. The Provincial Government also asked the supervising engineers to help settle the civil
works contractual impasse and procure the services of a new contractor to complete the remaining works.
The original 18-month consultancy was extended to over 60 months, and the value of the initial contract
was increased by about 200%.
Cancellation of bilateralfinancing and of the energy project. The bilateral US$3 million financing for the
solid-waste component was cancelled. The World Bank Power Sector Rehabilitation Project was not
completed thus requiring intensive use of generators to operate the water and sewer systems.
Communication problems. Key project management and procurement decisions were often deferred for
months as a result of the lack of adequate communication between the management of the Project and IDA.
The exact nature of these problems was never completely determined, but the weaknesses in the
telecommunications network appeared to be the primary problem. These communication problems also
existed between the resident mission in Luanda and the project implementing unit. The implementation of
the Project suffered considerable delays and consequent cost increases as a result of poor and frequently
non-existant communication.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Delays in implementing tariff policy. The Central Government was very inconsistent with the
implementation of its tariff policy for the supply of water. When the authority to implement this policy was
delegated to the Provincial Government, implementation remained inconsistent. In addition, despite the
Project designing a tariff policy for solid waste collection, the Provincial Governnent did not approve its
implementation. This lack of action compromises the sustainability of investments made to rehabilitate the
water supply, solid waste management, and waste water systems. The Provincial Government also failed
to make the public institutions, the main water users, pay their bills and reduce wastage of water. This
affected the EASs' financial sustainability and ultimately the operation of the systems and undermined the
water utilities' efforts to persuade the public of the need to pay for and conserve water.
Irregular counterpart funds. In some years the Governnent's contribution was greater than anticipated at
appraisal, but funding was also irregular. Civil works construction, the largest proportion of the share of
costs required from the Government, was mobilized on a priority basis. This was distinctly to the
disadvantage of the low cost components, which were almost exclusively dependent on counterpart funding,
and compromised their results and sustainability.
Low Government salaries which were often unpaid: This reduced the amount of time staff devoted to their
work and also their ability to absorb skills. It was a major problem in later years, frequently resulting in
few or no counterparts available for project implementation.
Failure to finance electricity installation. Government agreed during negotiations to finance the
connection costs to the public electricity supply, but then reneged. This increased costs for the
- 13 -



implementation phase of the Project to the detriment of other sub-components.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation capacity of the Provincial Government was virtually non-existant at the beginning of
the Project. To address this problem, the Project Management Unit was initially staffed by international
consultants who performed their responsibilities adequately but little or no transfer of knowledge took place
to the government counterparts. Therefore, mid-way through the Project, the GPP started to recruit well
educated local staff to assume the responsibility for the implementation and management of the Project. At
the end of the Project, the local staff were completely responsible for the management of the PMU. While
the introduction of the local staff will have long-term benefits to the Provincial Government, it frequently
resulted in implementation delays and problems which may have been avoided if more experienced staff
were in place. The decision was made to rely on local staff for the long-term benefit of the Province despite
the anticipated short-term problems, and at the end of the Project it was clear that the decision was correct.
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
The total project cost of US$ 61.28 million was slightly higher than the SAR estimate of US$58.88 million
due to the exchange rate from Sweedish Kroner to US dollars and the supplemental financing from
NORAD. Over the life of the Project, the Angolan curency exchange rate changed from US$ 1 = 90 NKz
(Nov, 1991) to US$ 19.37 KZ * (a large depreciation of the Angolan Kwanza in terms of US Dollars). As
of June 26, 2001 a total of US$ 45.57 million was disbursed from the IDA Credit and the undisbursed
balance is US$ 2.32 million. This additional amount of US dollars was a result of exchange rate changes
between the SDR and US dollar and at the end of the Project, the undisbursed balance was cancelled.
* There were 2 currency adjustments, one in July 1995, the other in January 2000.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is Unlikely Without a Follow-On Project
The span of a single project is an unrealistic time frame for establishing sustainable water supply and
sanitation services. Considering the problems associated with developing sustainable water supply and
sanitation systems anywhere in the world, the results achieved under the Project were significant. The
working conditions in Angola are difficult, especially in Benguela. The physical components were
completed, and the concepts of cost-recovery and use of the private sector to deliver basic urban services
were established. As the initial project in the sector/province, PRUALB has provided a foundation on
which to further develop the physical and institutional foundations necessary for successful and truly
sustainable water supply and sanitation operations and complementary municipal services. Sustained
support and assistance is still required to build on this foundation, but this support can not be adequately
provided without a stable political and macro-economic environment.
Water and sanitation services
The Central Government's decision to decentralize to the provincial governments the authority to increase
tariffs for water supply and sanitation services supported sustainable delivery of these services. Tariffs for
water supply and sewerage services have been increased in Lobito and Benguela from about US$
0.02/cubic meter in early 1994 to about US$ 0.20/cubic meter in January 2000, an increase of about
900%. In addition, charges for sewerage services have been established at 40% of the charges for water
- 14 -



supply (sewerage charges did not exist before the Project). The tariffs for water supply in effect at the end
of the Project were in excess of the estimated operating and maintenance cost of US$0.18/cubic meter and
US$0.17/cubic meter in Lobito and Benguela respectively. The newly created water supply and sewerage
companies have made serious efforts to contract out services to the local private sector, and efforts are
being made to establish a customer-oriented commercial service, but far more work is needed. While the
increased revenues are controlled by the EASs and re-invested in the operations, the investments in the
water supply and sewer systems are not likely to be sustained without establishing true financial and
administrative autonomy. The consistent implementation of the current tariff policy is also needed so that
the EASs can have sufficient financial resources to properly operate and maintain the systems.
Low Income Sanitation
The high-level of community participation should sustain both community and government initiatives to
improve urban services and infrastructure. The Project created a methodology and mobilized volunteer
members of the communities in order to build trust and disseminate the messages within their communities.
This community participation and its favorable impact on health and services gained the attention of local
policymakers. Policy discussions on cost recovery and appropriate technologies were stimulated and the
Department of Education was asked to include the sanitary-education/information program in the
Provincial School Curriculum. National policymakers recognized the sustainability of this approach and
request for similar projects in 17 other cities were received.
The physical outputs alone do not show the equally important changes in behavior, which are needed for
sustainability. The use of latrines, cost recovery, community mobilization and participation,
government/civil society cooperation, and the integration of service provision with environmental
management were substantial achievements as they were all non-existent before the Project. The Project
developed a methodology for community/government/NGO participation. Community cooperation for
re-vegetation has also stimulated private sector activity. For example, the areas' largest private timber
company started a project in January 1999 to plant tree species proved successful by the Project. The
demand and market for the trees has been created by the Project. The company has also agreed to provide
a monthly stock of saplings for distribution in the peri-urban areas. The poorest communities understand
the benefits of the trees as reflected by the strong demand for trees by an increasing number of families,
NGOs and churches. Communities and churches have also put pressure on the Municipal Administrations
to support and expand the latrine program.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Project itself should be considered as a transition from government provided water supply and
sanitation services to the development of commercially-oriented utilities providing sustainable services. It
is not reasonable to expect a country with the economic and political background of Angola to introduce the
concept of full cost recovery and sustainable commerically-oriented service delivery in the period of one
donor financed project. As stated earlier, the Project laid the foundation on which to further develop a
sustainable service delivery, and with further support, this foundation can be strengthened and broadened
so that in the near future sustainable service delivery can be a reasonable project development objective.
The achievements of this Project are well known throughout Angola, and every province now wants it own
PRUALB. The foundation laid by this Project has been spread to virtually every city in the country.
- 15-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
While the Bank team responded quickly to a situation of extreme hardship on the population in a "post
conflict" environment, for the reasons cited below, the identification and preparation phases of the Project
must be considered as generally unsatisfactory because the institutional reforms needed for sustainable
investments were not adequately addressed. As stated earlier, the conditions in Benguela at the time
warrented that this project be prepared as an emergency/post conflict project with more limited and focused
physical investments.
The Bank successfully identified the major components, identied the major risks, and obtained the
commitment/ownership of the Provincial Government. The decision to identify the Provincial Government
and not the Ministry of Energy and Water as the implementing agency was a good decision which was a
key reason for the successes that the Project achieved. The relations with the co-financing agencies and the
integration of lessons learned were highly satisfactory. However, the lack of any real program to address
the institutional weaknesses, and to incorporate the needed organizational changes and incentives to realize
those changes in the design of the Project, was a major problem throughout the implementation and makes
the sustainability of the investments doubtful. The Project also introduced engineering solutions which are
not the most appropriate for a country like Angola. In addition, despite recogonizing the risk that the
Government was not familiar with Bank procedures, the Project was excessively complex for even the most
experienced borrower, and the Bank provided little assistance to the Provincial Government with respect to
the Bank's procurement and disbursement requirements.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in supervision is considered satisfactory. Strong Bank support up to the October
1992 recommencement of the civil war made it possible for the executing agency (GPP) to evaluate the
proposals for the principal work and supervision components, only eight months after the signing of the
Credit Agreement. During this initial phase, Bank performance was highly satisfactory. In the second
phase from late 1992 until late 1993, the Bank reacted prudently to the civil war and did not halt the
Project. However, during this period there was no task manager for a period of time, and the frequent
changes in task management were very disruptive. In the the third and final phase, the Bank supported the
borrower under extremely adverse external conditions, seeking and developing solutions for successive
problems encountered in coordination with project management, in the face of enormous communications
difficulties. There were no changes in the task management after 1995, and the team was very effective in
developing good working relations at the Provincial and Central Government levels.
During this final phase, Bank team actively supported the efforts to transfer the project management to
local staff, and helped to develop programs to support their Learning By Doing through focused short-term
consulting assignments.  The team worked with the GPP in developing its capacity to deal with
procurement and project mamagement. While successful, the implementation of the final contracts was
delayed as a result of the inexperience of the staff in procurement and contract management. The poor
communciations with Benguela made this active supervision and support extremely difficult and stressful.
The Bank team also introduced a very effective capacity building program for the water supply and
sanitation companies using a water supply company in Brazil. This program involved study tours and the
preparation and monitoring of detailed work programs developed with the Brazilan counterparts. This
program was extremely effective in introducing new systems and procedures and in developing ownership
and enthusiasm in the EASs. Since this Bank team was also working on other projects in the sector in
- 16 -



Angola, they were able to influence the decisions taken to decentralize the tariffs and to convert the existing
provincial water departments into autonomous public companies.
The mid-term review (MTR) was effective in identifying some of the changes needed in the design of the
Project to overcome the omissions in design that took place at appraisal and to also react to the renewed
fighting and political instability.   Were it not for new and serious problems with a contractor and a
consultant, which delayed work and took up additional resources, the adjustments made to the Project and
the reallocation of funds in the MTR would have permitted the Project to have closed on schedule.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During preparation the Provincial Government collaborated keenly with the Bank and co-financing
agencies in the design of the Project and clearly demonstrated its commitmnent. The support provided to the
Project by the Provincial Government is the primary reason for the ultimate success of the Project.
7.5 Government implementation perfornance:
During project implementation, the Provincial Government introduced reforms, overcame internal
resistance, and contributed funds in excess of the amount anticipated. While the total amount of funding
provided by the Government exceeded the requirement, the delays in payments for civil service salaries and
for activities in the low cost components caused disruptions in the implementation of the Project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation of the Project under such adverse conditions was possible thanks to the ongoing
commitment of the Project Director and the team he was able to develop despite enormous difficulties in
hiring and retaining qualified local personnel. As indicated earlier, the Project was succesful in training a
cadre of local staff in project and contract management which can be utilized in the future.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was generally satisfactory.  The most important objectives were
achieved despite extremely difficult conditions, particularly: (a) two periods of civil war that devastated the
country and ultimately lasted for more than three years of the implementation period; (b) the scarcity of
qualified human resources and the means to attract and retain them; (c) the lack of experience in the
implementation, procurement and financial management of projects financed by the international aid
agencies; and (d) periods of excessive inflation.
8. Lessons Learned
This ICR has identified a number of key lessons for the future design and implementation of projects.
Project design. Before any financing is provided to a utility for physical investments, the institutional
capacity should be evaluated to determine its ability to manage and operate the proposed investments. The
utility should be an independent corporation established on commercial principles with administrative
autonomy. A tariff policy should be in place which will enable the utility to recover, at least its operating,
maintenance and replacement costs, and over time its full costs to provide the designed services. If such an
institution is not in place, consideration should be given to providing technical assistance credits to
establish the proper institutional mechanism before physical investments are planned. When investing in
- 17 -



the network, the rehabilitation of the water distribution systems must be planned before or during the same
phase as increased water production so as to keep investments for increased water production from being
lost in distribution and to not deny the utility the cash to operate and maintain the assets. In addition, a
public education program should be used to explain to consumers the need for tariff increases, cost
recovery, and the introduction of commercially-oriented management.
Future lending to cities in conditions which are similar to those that existed in Lobito and Benguela at the
start of this Project should provide emphasis on: (i) creating a viable independent utility which has a clear
strategy to increase the use of the private sector in the operations of the systems; (ii) gradually increasing
the tariffs charged and collected for the supply of water and sanitation services; (iii) introducing an
appropriate accounting system to enable the operating entity to control its collections and report on its
operations; (iv) utilizing focused TA to support a Leaning By Doing approach to capacity building; (v)
identifying focused poverty oriented investments to begin to reduce the level of poverty and begin to
improve the quality of life in the peri-urban and low-income communities; and (vi) developing the local
government and consulting capacity to manage donor financed investments through the implementation of
small poverty focused investments using a " learning by doing" approach.
Project implementation. Decentralized projects require an adequate mechanism for communication among
the implementing agencies, the Central Government and IDA. If needed, the Project must include financing
for both the capital and operating cost of such a communication system. Procurement capacity of the
implementing institution should be assessed to ensure that it has qualified procurement staff. If need be,
procurement specialists should assist at the start and at appropriate intervals.
Project Management. Local staff should assume responsibility for the implementation of the project when
TA is provided to a project management or coordination unit, and transfer of knowledge to the local staff
should take precedence over speed of execution. Technical assistance should avoid the tendency of doing
too much of the work. When the human and institutional capacity are inadequate, provisions should be
made for: (i) the use of locally recruited consultants to supplement the govemment staff; (ii) introducing
technical assistance to develop the capacity of the government agency - this assistance should include
monitorable indicators to enable the Bank and the Government to monitor performance; (iii) reducing the
complexity of the project to meet the capacity of the insitution; and (iv) providing incentives for the
government staff to undertake the new and/or additional activities introduced by the Project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A full text of the Borrower's comments is attached to this Report as an annex. The overall assessment of
the Borrower is that the Project had a positive outcome and impact. The Borrower notes the risks identified
at the beginning of the Project did in fact hamper implementation: (i) low institutional and technical
capacity; (ii) Government's lack of knowledge on Bank rules and procedures; (iii) political situation; and
(iv) poor communication. Despite this, the Borrower noted the significant positive contribution to regional
public health, specifically related to water and excreta related disease transmission. The Project also
contributed to alleviate the regional poverty by assisting in the creation of local firms, which in turn helped
to develop the " Lobito corridor". The Borrower noted that although the water and sanitation component is
likely to be unsustainable, the ideological shift that has been made by the Project, such as cost recovery, is
irreversible. Further, due to the concepts and programs implemented by the Project the low cost sanitation
- 18-



component is in fact likely to be sustainable.
(b) Cofinanciers:
None provided.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
See Annex 8 for a presentation of the Project Implementation Indicators
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                US$ million    US$ million
I.  Enviromnental Sanitation                            26.18                               45
II. Low Income Sanitation                                3.92                                7
111. Institutional Development                           8.67                               15
IV. Studies                                              6.29                               11
Total Baseline Cost                                     45.06             0.00
Physical Contingencies                                  4.80                                8
Price Contingencies                                     9.02                               15
Total Project Costs               58.88             0.00
Total Financing Required                58.88            0.00
* Due to differences in the disbursement categories and components, it is not possible to determine
disbursements by component.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICe           NCB           Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                       27.92          4.63           0.79          0.00          33.34
(23.09)        (4.14)        (0.71)        (0.00)        (27.94)
2. Goods                       4.56           5.33           0.00          0.00          9.89
(4.56)        (5.10)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (9.66)
3. Services                     0.00          0.00          13.70          0.00          13.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (13.15)        (0.00)       (13.15)
4. Training                     0.00          0.00           1.20          0.00          1.20
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.08)         (0.00)        (1.08)
5. Refinancing PPF             0.00           0.00           0.00          0.75          0.75
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.75)        (0.75)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                       32.48          9.96           15.69         0.75          58.88
(27.65)        (9.24)        (14.94)        (0.75)       (52.58)
t Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank  | Govt. |_CoF.         Bank   I  Govt.  I CoF.    Bank IGovt. I CoF.
- 21 -



Civil Works              18.04                2.30      35.43      3.15      3.57    196.4           155.2
Equipment, Vehicles,      6.38                0.38       2.07      2.73      0.42     32.4           110.5
Materials and Supplies
Consultants' Services     9.50      6.30      3.30       6.56      0.84      4.58     69.1   13.3  138.8
Training                  0.81                0.12       0.13      0.39      0.03     16.0           25.0
Unallocated              10.04                0.90                                     0.0           0.0
PPF                       0.81                           1.38                         170.4
Total                    45.58      6.30      7.00      45.57      7.11      8.60    100.0  112.9  122.9
* The documentation available does not allow the presentation of costs by component. Information can only
be presented by disbursement category, due to the book keeping format.
** The Actuals for the cofmanciers is greater due to:
1. A supplemental amount of NOK 7million was provided in 1997.
2. Exchange rate fluctuations for the SEK and NOK.
* ** Government contribution not confirmed. Estimate is based on the latest report produced by the
Government's financial consultant in 1999, and added to it the Government estimate of expenditures of
2000.
- 22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Although no economic analysis was done for the project, as expected at the onset of the project, the entire
population benefited economically from access to affordable clean water and improved sanitation, by
reducing the morbidity rates, enabling the population to work productively for more time. The women and
children don't spend inordinate amounts of time and energy hauling water at great distances. Further, the
project also created employment through the construction and rehabilitation of the water and sewer
networks.
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
5/89                        1   Sr. Urban Planner
10/89                       1   Sr. Urban Planner
2/90                        1   Sr. Urban Planner
5/90                        1   Sr. Urban Planner
10/90                       2   Sanitary Specialist, Env.
Consultant
2/91                        1   Sr. Urban Planner
AppraisallNegotiation
5/91                        6   Sr. Urban Planner, Lawyer,
Sr. Eng. and Planner, Sr.
Fin. Analyst, Env. Cons,
Geographer/GIS Speciealist
Supervision
7/92                        4   Sr. Urb. Economist, Env.           S             S
Consultant, Urb. Specialist,
Sanitary Eng.
2/93                        4   Sr. Urb. Economist, Sr.            S             S
Transport Economist, Fin.
Analyst, Sanitary Eng.
5/93                        1   Sr. Urb. Economist                 S             S
10/93                       1  Sr. Urb. Economist                  S             S
2/94                        3   Sanitaly Eng., Sr. Transport       S             S
Economist, Civil Eng.
7/94                        4   Sanitary Eng., Env. Consultant,    S             S
Civil Eng., Fin. Analyst
10/94                       5   Sanitary Eng., Env. Consultant,    S             S
Civil Eng., Fin. Analyst,
Economist
3/95                        6  2 Sanitary Eng., Env.               S             S
Consultant, Civil Eng., Fin.
Analyst, Economist
6/95                        3   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Env.             S             S
Consultant, Civil Eng.
10/95                       3   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Env.             S             S
Consultant, Civil Eng.
4/96                        4   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Env.             U              S
Consultant, Civil Eng., Water &
Sanitation Eng.
10/96                       3   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Civil Eng.,      U             S
Water & Sanitation Eng.
7/97                        3   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Env.             U             S
Consultant, Water & Sanitation
Eng.
- 24 -



11/97                       6  Anthropologist, Sr. Fin. Analyst,   U             S
Env. Consultant, Water &
Sanitation Eng., training
specialist, SIDA
4/98                        5   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Env.             S             S
Consultant, Water & Sanitation
Eng., 2 Cofinancers
10/98                       4   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Env.             S             S
Consultant, Water & Sanitation
Eng., Low Cost Sanitation.
Specialist
2/99                        2   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Water &          S             S
Sanitation Eng.
10/99                       5   Sr. Fin. Analyst, Env.             U             S
Consultant, Water & Sanitation
Eng., Low Cost Sanitation.
Specialist, Implementation
Specialist
ICR
02/00                       3    Env. Consultant, Water &          S             S
Sanitation Eng,
Implementation Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation              171.6                      276.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                   141.6                      239.1
Supervision                            258.9                       787.2
ICR                                      17.1                       87.8
Total                                  589.2                      1390.5
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
* Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
F Sector Policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                OH *SUOM ON ONA
O Financial                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Institutional Development               O H  O SU O M  O N  0 NA
LI Environmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               OH  * SU OM  O N  O NA
El Gender                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
LI Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management                0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
OI Other (Please specify)                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 26 -



Avnnex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS--Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=4Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
-I Lending                                            OHS  Os   *u   OHU
O Supervision                                         O HS * s   O u  O Hu
O Overall                                             OHS * S OCU O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
E Preparation                                         OHS OS  O  U  O HU
0  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
3 Implementation agency performance                   O HS O S  0  U  C HU
3 Overall                                             (HS O*S          U  C HU
-27-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
IDA, Staff Appraisal Report,Angola Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project,
November 19, 1991
IDA, Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the International Development Association
to the Executive Directors on a proposed Credit to the Republic of Angola for theobito-Benguela Urban
Environmental Rehabilitation Project, November 27, 1991
ICF, Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project, Final Water and Sewer Tariff Study,
November 1994
ICF, Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project, Final nstitutional Reorganization
Study, December 1994
Oxfam, PRUALB, The Lobito Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project, A Beneficiary
Assessment, July 1998
PEMConsult, Water Tariff Study - Lobito, May 1999
PEMConsult, Water Tariff Study -Benguela, May 1999
IDA, Supervision StaffAide Memoires, Various Reports, 1992-2000.
- 28 -



Additional Annex 8. Implementation Indicators
see
It-tiestorepodcto  of 10 -                    T.hiu:e;. Nomna
capacity of the   Rehabilitation
(US$9. 60M)
water and        Lobito
sewer
systems          Drilling of wells   - Drilling of 6 wells inat  - Drilling of 4
drilling field of Catumbela    wells in Catumbela
and a new drilling field with  and 5 in the new
6 wells in Tchiule; planned    drilling field in
production of 1000 m3/h;    Tchiule; Nominal
- Rehabilitation of existing    capacity of 1490
water hole                  m3/h.
H1- Irnprove     Water treatment   -Installation of chlorination    I mplemented
liviag plant in the existing 500mm
conditions in                      water main
B eng uela                         ------   -.... ..      ._............
Province         Rehabilitation of                              - Rehabilitation of   - Included in MTR
1)urnina stations                             EE2 and EE3         -2 generators added in
pumping stations    MTR
and R3 and R4
reservoirs
Rehabilitation of                              - Rehabilitation of   -Included in MTR
reserve                                       R3 and R4
reservoirs
Rehab. and        - Constr. of 5 Km of a       - Implemented
strengthening of   600mm water main to
system and        supply the existing 500mm
extension to      main as far as Lobito, Boa
install standpipes  Vista and Alto Liro
w/wash basins
- Installation of 50 Km of  - Implemented
secondary piping
- Constr. of 7 Km    - Included in MTR
of reinforcement
piping
- Installation of 15   - Included in MTR
valves and 8 zone
..-- --- --- ---   - --- -- --- ---  ...         ts -..    -- - - --- ---- -
Construction of   - Construction of 300       - Implemented 218   - At project closing 88
standpipes/wash   standpipes and installation  standpipes and     % of the standpipes
basins            of 300 meters               their respective     was working properly
meters installed
- 29 -



I-Restore the         Benguela
capacity of
water
and sewer             Rehabilitation          - Abandonment of 9 wells,             Recovery of 2 wells
systems               and drilling of         rehabilitation of 3 wells and drilling   and drilling of 6 new
of 6 new wells - planned             wells; nominal capacity
wells                 .rdcono100n3hof 1206 m3/h
Treatment              - Installation of chlorination plant in   - Implemented
existing ETA
.~~~~~~~~~-           - - - - - - - - -   -- -- - -- -    ---- -     --  -- --   -- - - -- , -   .......  ..,,.,.,,..  . .   _F.. .. .. .
Installation of        - Doubling of capacity of pumping    - Implemented
pumping stations   station (ETA) with installation of 2
more 400 rn3/h pomp mnotors and a
reserve
- Inst. of a generator in    - Included in MTR
the new drilling field
- Installation of reserve pump at R4    - Inst. of only one   - Included in MTR
(Baia Azul,Baia Farta).              generator.
Rehabilitation         - Installation of 400mm water main    - Implemented
and                    to carry water from ETA to
and             ~~~~~reservoir 6 (R6),
strengthening of
system and
extension to
standpipes
- Inst. of 50 Km of secondary         Implemented
piping
- Construction of 2.85   - Included in MTR
Km of reinforcement
piping
- Installation of 219    - Included in MTR
valves and 4 zone
mete,rs_        ,.                            ..
..   .... .   ... .. . .  -- -- - -- -  .. ..   - . ---   --   ---   .- L   -  --   -- - - - - -- - - - -   ---- -
Construction of        - Construction of 200 standpipes     - Implemented 131         - At the end of the project
standpipes             and installation of 200 meters       standpipes and            55% of the standpipes was
standpipes                                 ~~~~~~~~~~installation of   working properly
respective meters
2 - Sewer
Rehabilitation
(US$7.88M)
Lobito
Rehabilitation         - Construction of 14 Km gravity      - Implemented
and extension of    system
collection system
- Rehabilitation of system and       - Not implemented        - Canceled in MTR
Compao connections
- Installation of 269    - Included in M FR
.. ... .... .. .... .  - - - -      -     - -  - - - -  - .connections  ,         ,   . ... ..
Inst. of pumping    - Installation of 2 pumping stations    - Implemented.
station                (EE I and EE2)
- Rehabilitation of EE9 and XEI0     - Implemented
pumping stations at Compao and
equippk  gf pumps and controls  ._
Constr. of             - Construction of oxidation ponds    - Implemented             - Total operating capacity
treatment plant        with a capacity of 2490 m3/day                                 not yet achieved due lack of
- 30 -



Benguel
Rehabilitation      - Installation of 13 Km of gravity  - Implemented
and extension of   system
collection system
- Installation of a container for the
Coringe trench
- Installation of a main 4 Km   - Implemented
collector to connect the system to
the oxidation ponds
- Installation of 150  - Included in MTR
connections
Installation of       Installation of two pumping    - Implemented
pumping station    stations (EE2 and EE6)
Constr. of           - Construction of two oxidation  - Implemented          - Total operating capacity
oxidation ponds    ponds with a capacity of                                  not yet achieved due to lack
1500m3/day                                            of power
3. Storm            - Construction of a 4.0 Km dressed    - Implemented with 3.6   - Channel shorted at MTR
Drainage Works   open channel (Benguela)              Km                     - Removed from project at
- Retention pond of about 600,000    - Not implemented  MTR
(US$5. 8M)          m3 (Benguela)                     - Not Implemented     - Removed from project at
- Construction of 8 small velocity  - Not implemented   MTR
dams (Benguela)                                         - Removed from project at
- Construction of 50                                    MTR
retention/velocity check dams
(Lobito)
4. Solid Waste       - Removal of roughly 4,000 tons of   - Implemented      - Restructured as part of
Management     ~approximately 30 years                                 Low Income Sanitation at
11fanagement         accumulated trash in the urban area                     MTR
(US$2. 9                                              - Implemented/mostly
- Removal of spontaneous dumps    through community
accumulated in the peri-urban area   support in exchange for
latrine slabs and trees
- Not                  - Canceled in MTR; GPB
- Establish a system of 2.5 m3 and    implemented/Implemen   carried out the rehabilitation
I Om3 containers to the peri-urban    ted: trash-bases and  out of counterpart funds
areas                            community
management, with
municipal tractor-     -Revised at MTR
trailer regular collection
- Repair of the municipal vehicle    implemented
maintenance workshops
- Not
implemented/Implemen
ted: tractors acquired
- Distribution of the X00 I      wlmaintenance
containers in the downtown areas    contracts
- Not
implemented/system
changed to barrels
w/daily collection &
household containers
w/repular collection
- 31 -



II- Improve           f.~W            ,~ <
living                                      :&
conditions                                  ki        f  i>.     K       4       _________________'.:- _i'._______________.
in Benguela           1.  Improved           - Construction and distribution of  - introduced  improved   - The program was
province                   Latrines          100,000 improved latrine slabs for    dry latrines' in Angola,  financially restricted due to
family latrines                     and trained first slab   its dependency on
(UTS$2 8])                                            builders                 counterpart funding
- 24,574 improved
latrines implemented
- 28 improved-latrine
slab makers trained for
churches, local and
intemational NGOs
- various seminars for
other provincial
2.  Sanitay-           - Emergency measures, studies,      - 755 activistas trained    - The program was
Envnironmen    education/information and training   in sanitary-               financially restricted due to
tal            environmental            its dependency on
education for the        counterpart funding
Education                                             communities, churches,
(USsO. 63A1)                                          and for national and     - 2 schools mostly for street
intemational NGOs        children were established in
- staff of Provincial   the tree nurseries
Health Delegation        (Catumbela and Benguela)
trained to combine       to provide sanitary-
sanitary-enviromnental    education, latrine models,
education with hygiene    and training for
education                manufacturing of traditional
- 63 trainers for NGOs,   products
and 3 for the
communities trained
- 950 Sanitary-
Education Manuals
(SIDA/AID/NORAD
support) distributed to
communities, churches,
etc.
- 7 comic-book type
education topic
manuals prepared
w/small amount printed
and distributed
- various seminars to
train other provincial
eovernments
3. Urban Re-           - Re-vegetation of poor             - 2.6 million trees      - The program was
Vegetation            neighborhoods and standpipe          produced, distributed,    financially restricted due to
(UNrOJAP              plazas;                              and planted mostly in    its dependency on
XUS$o@.5M)y            - Erosion control at the beaches, and   peri-urban backyards,  counterpart funding
for major storm water channels      pruviding products
from firewood to bread;   - The old Botanical Garden
- various seminars to    (Benguela) was rehabilitated
train other provincial   to be used as nursery for the
govemments               program; a neighboring trash
- private sector took up    dump area was transformed
to establish fodder,     into a large tree nursery to
soap, and bread          expand its production
industries from trees    - The Catumbela arboretum
introduced by the        was rehabilitated to double
... ______________________________   er- iect                 un  as  a  nursery
- 32 -



Ill- Strengthen    UI4NT.                                                                              -      -
the institutions     DEVELOP- ..N-
responsible for    1. Technical            - Three long-term resident directors:  - Not completely   - Important TA consulting
project              Assistance            operations, mechanical and        implemented             failed to perfom;
implementation   (USS5   761   financial for the EASs     - Second  consulting  delayed
implementation          S576M                                                                        inf starting leaving little lime
for the TA
- One long-term resident Sanitation   - Not Implemented   - 3 UJNVs hired for two
Advisor for Improved Latrine                              years to support
Program                                                   implementation of the low
Not Implemented       cost components
- 2 United Nation volunteers (UNV)
to assist resident advisor (sanitary-
environmental education, and      - Not Implemented
construction)
- One long-term (21 m/m) resident
Environmental Advisor
1.  Training         - Overseas training to complement   - Oversea training of 2    - Few technicians trained;
(US$0.3 SM)   on-the-job training                  technicians in Financial
Management for the      - Did not cover all areas.
Water Companies
- Oversea training of 2
technicians in Admin.
and Finance for the
Water Companies
- Training of two water
and sewer laboratory
technicians             - two technicians trained
- Exchange overseas
visit Water Companies    - Removed at MTR
- Overseas training in CIS        - Municipal
- Overseas training in            Management
environmental management, and     - Solid Waste
low cost sanitation               Management
- Not Implemented
- Not Imolemented
2.  Logistical       - Restoration and equipping of     -Implemented            - GPP expanded
Support          offices, including fumishings,                            - DPSC (historic building)
computers, printers, computer                             rehabilitated
(UOJAJ-541)   programs, photocopy machine
- Vehicles for foreign consultants
and national counterparts
~~~~-  Communica.tions  eauibment            .  .   _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _     '  .  ..    ....   .   --_____
IV- STUDIES
(WS$6.29N   ..-'"'.'   .. .  
1.  Engineering                                         - Implemented
Design &
Supervision
(US$3.49M)
2.  Water &          - Water and Sewer Tariff Studies   - Water Tariff Study
Sewer Study       Institutional Reorganization     Implemented
>.rre n  s  , - Instt na  erazhn-Two water/sewerage
(US$0. 67M)                                        - Implemented           companies were created for
Lobito (EASL), and
3.  GIS/Land                                            - Not implemented       - Canceled at MTR
Registration
Study
(US$0.39M)
- 33 -



1.  Environmen   - Environmental Diagnostic and          - Not implemented       - Revised at MTR into two
tal Mgt. &       Action Plan; baseline studies                              studies: (I) Envir.
Management, and (ii) Water
Monitoring                                                                  Quality Management
Study                                                                       (integrated into TA for
(US$0. 78M)                                                                 Water Companies); not
carried out
2.  Other                                                - Health Study (SIDA
Studies                                             support)
- Beneficiary
(US$O. 95)                                          Assessment
- 34 -



Additional Annex 9. Heath Statistics for Lobito and Benguela
Table 1: Pre and Post-Proiect Conditions - % of Population Served
FS: few standpipes                FPL: few public latrines           PC: four public containers
IFew standpipes, nonfunctioning; irregular truck water.  2Septic tanks, not well maintained
Sources: SAR, Annex 1, Annex 3. Annex 4, p. 1-4
Table 2- Mortality Rates and Rankini-
Sources: 1989-90: Delegacia Provincial da Saude in SAR,Annex 1, p. 7, and Annex 3, p. 7; Delegacia Provincial da
Saude/CE 11/1999.
- 35 -



Additional Annex 10. Summary of Government's Completion Report
Government of Angola's Completion Report
on the Lobito Benguela Project
February 2000
1.    Context
Between 1975 and 1990, because of various factors, including the prevailing political and
economic instability, the population of Lobito and Benguela quadrupled, but without any
matching growth or increase in basic services or infrastructure facilities. This situation caused
serious deterioration of the environment as a result of the large numbers of people concentrated in
the urban and surrounding areas, with the consequent degradation of the urban infrastructure and
services, high rates of infant mortality and morbidity, proliferation of spontaneous trash dumps,
inadequate water supply and desertification problems, all in a context of serious institutional
deficiencies.
It was with the aim of reversing this state of affairs that the PRUALB project was
identified, as a means of mitigating these negative impacts and setting the foundations for
socioeconomic renewal in the region.
Certain risks and constraints capable of hampering implementation were also identified at
the start of the project. These risks, which needed to be resolved since they might otherwise have
compromised the success of the project, were, in brief: (i) technical and institutional weaknesses;
(ii) unfamiliarity on the part of the government team with Bank rules and procedures; (iii) the
political situation; and (iv) the tremendous communication difficulties.
In spite of these constraints, it proved possible to meet and in some cases exceed
expectations.  Implementation of the project has created the conditions necessary for the
accomplishment of large-scale development operations in the region, namely:
*     Motivation, social mobilization and community participation for future similar
rehabilitation projects in other urban centers in the province;
*     Participation of private operators in the management and running of social infrastructure
facilities;
*     Involvement of local government entities and local experience in the management and
implementation of development projects;
*     Collective perception of the global impact of PRUALB, which will facilitate the
continuation of other projects;
- 36 -



*     Need to ensure the sustainability of PRUALB;
*     Special needs of vulnerable groups (those affected by the war, displaced persons, the
handicapped and disabled, the elderly, etc.);
*     Understanding of the relative importance of PRUALB with the improving of other
services considered necessary.
- 37 -



II.   Original Objectives of the Project
The original objectives of the project were to:
*     Restore the deficient water supply and sewerage services, with the aim of protecting the
population against life-threatening epidemics;
*     Improve living conditions in the squatter-occupied zones (muceques) by providing access
to drinking water and improved latrines;
*     Strengthen the institutions responsible for the management and operation of the project
and for oversight of urban services and the environment, through the provision of technical
assistance, logistic support and training; and
*     Assist with policy reform by means of studies on water and sewer tariffs, land registration
and the environment.
With a view to pursuing these objectives, the following project components were
identified initially:
Part A - Environmental Sanitation:
A. 1   Rehabilitation of water production and distribution in Lobito and Benguela
A.2   Rehabilitation of sewer systems
A.3   Rehabilitation of the stormwater drainage system
A.4   Solid waste management.
Part B - Low-Cost Sanitation:
B. 1   Latrine improvement program
B.2   Health education program
B.3   Urban replanting.
Part C - Institutional Development:
C. I   Strengthening of the capacity of the GPP (Provincial Planning Office) to manage
and implement the project
- 38 -



C.2   Strengthening of the capacity of the DPSC (Provincial Directorate of Community
Services)
C.3   Strengthening of the capacity of EPAB (the provincial water utility of Benguela)
C.4   Training on the job and in other countries for staff members of the GPP, EPAB
and DPSC and also for staff of the Project Implementing Unit
C.5   Management of the project
C.6   Geographic Information System.
Part D - Studies:
D. 1   Study of water and sewer service tariffs
D.2   Study for the institutional reorganization of EPAB
D.3   Study of the environmental management and monitoring system
D.4   Study on land registration
D.5   Other studies connected with the urban development sector, identified and agreed
on by the borrower and IDA.
The initial design of the project was based on the following assumptions:
*     The prospects of peace as seen in 1992, which held out hope for resumption of
infrastructure rehabilitation and the restarting of economic activity in the country;
*     The complementarity of PRUALB with the Lobito Corridor project;
*     The Bi6pio and Lumaum hydroelectric and thermal powerplants would be fully
operational as of 1993.
However, when the fighting flared up again in 1994, the situation in the country
deteriorated and, clearly, this had a direct impact on the progress of the project. As a result of
this situation, combined with the project's budget shortfall, the pursuit of project objectives was in
some measure compromised and there was a risk that they might not be achieved. The direct
consequences of this situation were:
*     Difficulties in mobilizing expatriate personnel, whether consultants or contractors, and
even national personnel;
- 39 -



*     A state of total impoverishment;
*     The economic standstill, with a large proportion of local entrepreneurs obliged to shut
down their operations;
*     Water-supply system affected by hostilities;
*     The commencement of new migratory flows with a marked concentration of displaced
persons in the region and occupation of a large part of the areas earmarked for the project,
specifically the area where the Caponte market is located today, and part of the new
neighborhoods of Benguela, Lobito and even Catumbela; in other words, there was obviously a
radical change in the physical space considered in the preliminary studies.
Despite the difficulties that had arisen, the Bank Mid-Term Review mission conducted in
November 1994 noted, with satisfaction, that all the components of the project had been started
and that their degree of progress was considered "good", taking those factors into account.
The project was revised during this mission and a new resource allocation plan was
adopted to adapt it to the new conditions outlined above.
Thus, the following actions were eliminated or scaled down:
(i)   The following actions were totally eliminated:
*     Stormwater drainage works in Lobito and Benguela;
*     Establishment of a Geographic Information System;
*     Land registration and others.
(ii)   The following actions were scaled down:
*     The Benguela oxidation basins, thereby reducing their capacity;
*     The sewer system in the city of Benguela;
*     The length of the Coringe drainage canal.
(iii) In addition, the Solid-Waste Collection and Treatment Management subcomponent, which
was to be cofinanced by the line of credit from Spain, was not implemented as planned because
the financing did not materialize, leaving it dependent for the most part on the contributions by
the Government of Angola.
It should be noted that the total amount of the credit (IDA+GOA+DANIDA+SIDA) was
maintained at US$63.07 million and that a significant upward adjustment was made for civil
- 40 -



construction works, from US$15.51 million to US$37.50 million, i.e. an increase of 141.7%,
bringing this item up to 59.45% of the total credit. It should also be noted that the Government's
share increased from US$6.3 million to US$8.38 million.
III.   Evaluation of the Objectives/Impacts and Benefits of the Project
The chief direct benefits of the project were:
*     It contributed to the improvement of the health of the population, especially that of
women and children;
*     It helped toward the eradication of cholera, diarrheal diseases and malaria from the region,
reducing them to their lowest levels ever;
*     It provided employment for about 3,000 workers of different specialties;
*     It set the water utilities up on a business footing and trained their human resources;
*     It substantially improved the quality of the water;
*     It contributed to mitigation of poverty among the poorest groups in the muceque zones;
*     It helped foster better productivity among the urban population;
     It had positive impacts on the physical and social environment;
-     It contributed to greater efficiency on the part of institutions beyond the project itself,
facilitating implementation of the wider-ranging rehabilitation program for the Lobito Corridor;
*     It promoted microenterprise creation, with each standpipe being a microenterprise.
In short, the most significant impacts of implementation of the project are:
At the Health and Environmental Level
At the health and environmental level, the degree of accomplishment of project objectives
was substantial, taking into consideration the situation as it was at the start of the project and how
things are at the present time, as follows:
1.    The water-supply systems in the cities of Lobito and Benguela were rehabilitated and
doubled, and water service was extended to the suburban areas with the construction of about
131 standpipes with their respective meters in Benguela, 144 standpipes in Lobito and 74 in
Catumbela including the respective meters (in all 349 standpipes were put in), serving about 75%
of the present population of the cities of Benguela and Lobito. Pipelines (secondary network)
were installed for water supply to the standpipes in Lobito (65 km of secondary line), together
-41 -



with 7 km of pipeline in Catumbela and 2.85 km in Benguela.
2.    The installed water-production capacity has been significantly improved, with that of the
Lobito system increasing from 600 m3/h to 1490 m3/h and that of Benguela from 470 m3/h to
1206 m3/h. As a result, the two systems can supply water on a regular basis through a system of
overhead tanks to around 75% of the people living in the peripheral urban areas. New wells have
been sunk for catchment purposes (nine new boreholes in Lobito and Benguela) and a new
chlorination station has been constructed, while the reservoirs and the pumping and
water-treatment stations have been rehabilitated.
3.    A waste-water collection and treatment system has been implemented in the cities of
Lobito and Beguela, with construction of oxidation basins (1500 m3/day in Benguela and 2490
m3/day in Lobito) to reduce environmental pollution. The project was responsible for the laying
of a total of 27 km of gravity-type sewers in the two cities plus about 419 house connections.
4.    About 30,044 improved latrines were constructed in Benguela and 34,000 in Lobito, for
the low-income population.
5.    The stormwater drainage system has been improved with the execution of a 3.25-km
reinforced-concrete drain channel.
6.    The quantities handled by the trash collection system increased from 3845 m3/year in 1990
to 32,383 m3/year in 1997, which took care of the accumulations of refuse that had built up. In
1999, the amount collected was 11,588 m3/year, since responsibility for collection was transferred
to the municipal governments with the result that some accumulation of refuse began to build up
again in the cities.
7.    An urban and suburban reforestation program has been started on a predominantly family
basis and some 1.5 to 2 million trees have been planted and a start has been made on controlling
beach erosion.
It should be noted that:
*    These actions have a positive and direct impact in the environmental health area,
in the improvement of living conditions for the people, and also in the reduction of
diarrheal diseases and malaria and the eradication of cholera, all of which is reflected in a
reduction of the local infant mortality rate which was of the order of 30% and 45% in
Lobito and Benguela respectively in 1990 to approximately 19% in both cities in 1997.
At the Institutional Development level
At the institutional development level the degree of achievement of the project objectives
was satisfactory, on the basis of comparison of the situation at the start of the project with that
currently obtaining, as follows:
- 42 -



1.    Two independent entities for water supply and sanitation, with relative financial autonomy,
have been established in Lobito and Benguela.
2.    The level of water and sanitation billing has increased considerably, on the basis of
comparison of the figures at the start of the project with the present ones. From 300 per month in
1992, the number of bills has increased to about 2500 per month.
3.    The introduction of mechanisms for recovering operating and maintenance costs in the
water and sanitation tariffs.
4.    A system of community solid-waste management and integrated low-cost management of
urban refuse has been established, and the concept of cost recovery has been introduced in urban
solid-waste management.
5.    The institutions have been upgraded and their staff trained, in particular GPP (the
Provincial Planning Office), UG (the Management Unit), EPAB (the Benguela water utility) and
DPSC (Provincial Directorate of Community Services), with initial technical assistance that
included United Nations volunteers and strengthening of local personnel.
6.    A system of water supply by standpipes managed by private enterprise (in the majority of
cases by members of the community) has been implemented, with full cost recovery, in all the
peripheral neighborhoods with the exception of two.
7.    Technical assistance with operation has been provided to the water and sanitation
enterprises in Lobito and Benguela, to improve the efficiency and quality of the services.
8.    A health and environmental education program has been carried out, by means of which
professional training was provided in Lobito and Benguela respectively, to: (i) 296 and 459
community health and environmental education promotion workers for the national and
international NGOs; (ii) 63 for NGOs and 3 trainers for the communities; and (iii) 28 latrine
floor-slab makers for local and international NGOs and local churches.
9.    Practical technical training has been provided to the local PRUALB personnel in the area
of contract management, procurement and low-cost sanitation.
10.   An action plan has been developed for the low-cost sanitation component of the project,
based on the lessons learned from the component and the survey of beneficiaries prepared in
1998. This action plan, which was developed together with the local "activists", provides a
strategy for expansion of the program on a sustainable basis in the various communities of the
urban periphery of the two cities.
*     It should be noted that these actions will, in some measure, contribute to the maintenance
of the various existing systems and, thereby, strengthen the sustainability of the project.
To sum up, we can consider that the project objectives (original and revised), were clear,
- 43 -



realistic and important for the development of the region.
IV.   Evaluation of Performance
In general, we can characterize the performance of the project as being satisfactory at all
levels, taking into account the risk factors already discussed and the fact that it was Angola's first
environmental and urban rehabilitation project.
Government performance
The evaluation of the Government's performance takes into consideration: (i) the situation
of instability in the country; (ii) the scant experience in implementing projects financed by the
World Bank; (iii) external factors outside of the Government's control; and (iv) its capacity to
effect disbursements and its diligence in implementing the project.
During the project preparation period, the Government performed an appropriate role in
identification of the objectives of the project, supporting its preparation and negotiating directly
with the Bank.
The Government's performance during the initial phase of implementation up to
November 1994 was considered "good", as noted in the aide-memoire of the World Bank
Mid-Term Review mission.
The implementation of the project was supported by technical assistance from consulting
firms and individual consultants and performance through the end of the project was considered "
satisfactory", with acceptable levels of disbursement having been achieved, notwithstanding the
considerable problems that persisted throughout its implementation.
Regarding the level of disbursements, up to the Mid-Term Review disbursements effected
amounted to about US$20.89 million as compared with the appraisal estimate of US$8.83 million.
By December 1999 about 97% of the total funds available (IDA + Government + Governments of
Sweden and Norway) had been disbursed.
It should be noted that the Government of Angola achieved quite a high performance,
since it made US$8.69 million available, which was well in excess of the US$6.3 million specified
in the Credit Agreement; this was 138% of the figure originally set, not including the operating
costs (non-eligible expenditures) in the region of US$2.0 million (up to December 1998).
Bank performance
The Bank's performance in the project preparation phase was satisfactory, although it was
marked to some extent by the very low figures set for certain items in the Credit Agreement
compared with the actual amounts charged by the contractors and consultants.
As of the end of 1992 and 1993 there were changes in the Bank team working on the
- 44 -



project that affected the performance of the Management Unit; the project was left temporarily
without a task manager and during this period Bank supervision of the project did not make itself
felt.
In 1994 the Bank's performance was satisfactory. It should be noted, however, that
during the period 1991-95 the project had three task managers, a situation that was in no way
favorable for proper supervision.
From 1995 to the closure of the credit there was one single task manager, a fact that
contributed positively toward better Bank performance and better relations between the Bank and
Government teams. The Bank demonstrated flexibility during the Mid-Term Review mission.
The number and composition of the missions conducted were sufficient and necessary for
the monitoring of the project and helped to resolve the greater part of the problems. The "no
objections" sought were given in a reasonable amount of time.
V.    Factors that Affected the Implementation of the Project
A.    Factors outside of the Government's control
The main events and factors that affected the implementation of the project and were
outside the Government's control were the following:
(a)   Unexpected resurgence of the war situation in October 1992 and again at the end
of 1994 and from the end of 1998 onward, affecting a significant part of the
country;
(b)   Lack of task manager from 1992 to 1993;
(c)   Inspection weaknesses;
(d)   Poor contractor performance in Contracts I and II, together with poor consultant
performance in the technical assistance contract for EPAB;
(e)   Inadequate knowhow transfer by some consultants;
(f)    Financing difficulties for all the actions identified in the project feasibility study and others
that proved to be necessary;
(g)   Excessive bureaucracy in the Bank procedures.
B.    Factors generallv subiect to Govermment's control
(a)   The fact that the main officials responsible for the project's implementation were not
assigned to it on a full-time basis;
- 45 -



(b)   Changes in key personnel, mainly in the final phase of the project;
(c)   Delays in implementing policies;
(d)   Delays in reallocating the project budget (Counterpart Fund) in accordance with the
stipulations of the Credit Agreement;
(e)    Low pay for local personnel;
(f)    Slowness in making funds available;
(g)   Delays in finalizing and implementing the water tariffs;
(h)   New influx of migrants, with unplanned settlement and homebuilding in new areas.
C.    Factors under the control of the Management Unit
In this connection, two phases have to be taken unto consideration: firstly, what was
achieved with the support of the technical assistance provided, and secondly, what was done using
local personnel backed by targeted technical assistance for particular purposes:
In the first phase the following constraints were identified: (i) inadequate transfer of
knowhow on the part of the consultant; (ii) problems in mobilizing counterpart personnel
in the numbers and of the level recommended; (iii) the absence of a procurement plan for
all the actions already identified; and (iv) the price escalation that occurred in Contracts I
and II.
In the second phase, which was administered by local personnel with the support of
targeted technical assistance for specific needs, the following constraints were
encountered: (i) limited experience with Bank rules and procedures; (ii) difficulties in
implementing an efficient procurement plan; and (iii) difficulties in communicating with the
Bank.
VI.   Evaluation of Achievement of Environmental Objectives
The achievement of the project's environmental objectives is rated highly satisfactory,
since it contributed to the improvement of environmental sanitation and, therefore, to the
improvement of health conditions.
- 46 -



Rating
Accomplishment of project          Highly SatisfactoryPartialMinimalNot Applicable
objectives
Restoration of water supply and
sewer services
Improvement of living conditions in                           X
the gquatter zones by providng safe
water and improved latrines
VII. Evaluation of the Institutional Framework
The accomplishment of the institutional objectives is rated as partial, since new concepts
in terms of cost recovery were introduced and the project contributed to the institutional
reorganization of the sector and defined the strategy for its sustainability. A tariff study was made
that defined the policy on prices to consumers and enabled the recovery of operating and
maintenance costs.
Rating
Accomplishment of project          Highly SatisfactoryPartialMinimalNot Applicable
objectives
Strengthening of the institutions  X
responsible for the management and
operation of the project and
oversight of the urban services and
environment
Assisting the reform of policies   X
through studies of water and sewer
tariffs and institutional studies
The sustainability of the project is evaluated as the capacity to maintain the
accomplishments generated by PRUALB with respect to its main objectives or its expected
achievements in the operational area.
- 47 -



As shown above, the project had a quite considerable impact for the province, with
positive repercussions for its future development. It will unquestionably serve as framework that
is already irreversible in itself on account of the betterrnent that it has brought about in the general
context of the region, especially as regards to the improvement in the quality of life of its
population and the subgtantial change in the institutional set-up of the scvtor.
In general, sustainability of the improvements in water supply and sanitation
(Environmcntal Sanitation Component), which represented in all an investment of the order of
US$48.59 million, can be considered unlikely, at least in the short and meAlum term, in light of
the macroeconomic instability of the country and the operating and maintenance problems
inherent in the activity.
Nevertheless, the indicators are good for the likely sustainability of water and sanitation
services, and chiefly water supply, if: (i) the water tariffs are regularly and permanently collected
and updated as necessary; (ii) the State resolves the problem of late payments for the water used
by government services; (iii) the level of services of the water compnieg' commercial area is
maintained or improved; and (iv) the Sustainability Action Plan for water and sanitation is
implemented.
Also the sustainability of the benefits of the Low-Cost ganitation Component, the total
investment for which amounted to about US$2.06 million, is likely, for various reasons, in
particular: (i) application of the concepts introduced by the project; (ii) the GoverTnment's
renewal program for the periurban zones of Lobito and Benguela; (iii) introduction of private
enterprise and involvement of various comrnunities in the resolving of social questions; and (iv)
the introduction of decentralization and autonomy of the municipal governments.
As a result, new concepts have been introduced that flow in part from the project, such as:
(i) cost recovery for infrastructure and services in the suburban areas; (ii) comrnunity mobilization
and participation; (iii) Government-civil society cooperation; and (iv) introduction of integrated
infrastructure and services combined with environmental management.
It should be noted, however, that if funding is not available for timely implementation of
the "continuity actions" contained in the Sustainability Action Plan, there is a risk that the
long-terrn sustainability of the accomplishments already posted may be compromised.
IX.   Conclusions and Recommendations to the Government and the World Bank
This was a multidisciplinary project that, can be categorized as "complex", since it
involved works, studies, technical assistance and a major social component.
The situation of instability prevailing in the country and the lack of experience in managing
large-scale works contracts, combined with inadequate transfer of knowhow by the team of
consultants advising the Management Unit, were some factors among others which, while many
of them were outside of the control of the Unit or the Government, significantly limited its
performance.
- 48 -



Nevertheless, such constraints did not prevent the Government from achieving a quality of
performance that we consider to have been, at all levels, satisfactory, taking into account the
circumstances noted above.
Regarding lessons learned we would note the following, which should be taken into
consideration in future operations: (a) the contractual terms of the technical assistance need to be
improved in order to permit effective training of local personnel and real transfer of knowhow; (b)
necessity of creating local capabilities for managing projects by means of a training strategy
(including training in English language skills) and development of the personnel involved in the
project; (c) greater support is needed for the procurement area, in which national experience has
not yet reached a sufficient level; (d) whenever possible, changes in the Bank and borrower teams
involved in the project should be avoided, since such changes as a rule entail negative
consequences for the implementation of the project; (e) a project implementation manual should
be prepared before the credit becomes effective; and (f) the present status of the Environmental
Sanitation and Low-Cost Sanitation components means that they will continue to require
considerable financing for their reasonable recovery.
-49 -



0
U)



