%          ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  _ _q 
Document of
y )                          The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9794-ANG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ANGOLA
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 27, 1991
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Africa Region
Thi document ha a roficted dltdbidtlon  o my be used by rdpknts ondy In tbe peformauia  of
their officead dutoe  Its cottes way not oherwise be disosed wthout Wofid Bank anthozaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency  nitew Kwnza
Mar.91-Nov.91         US$1.00               NKz6O
From Nov.16, 1991     US$1.00               NKz9O           Base Ratel/
If Applicable to petroleum and diamond exports, official financial transactions and five basic
consumer imports. Other rates apply as follows: NKz18O for raw materials and selected other
consumer imports; and NKz55O for remaining exports and imports. Individual transactions
may be conducted through the commercial banks at parallel market rates (NKz780 as of Nov.
25, 1991).
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)                                        3.28 Feet
1 Kilometer                                        0.625 Miles
1 Square Meter (mi)-                                10.76 Square Feet
1 Hectare                                          10,000 ni2 or 2.47 Acres
1 Liter                                            0.264 Gallons (0.22 Imp. Gal.)
30 Liters per day                                  7.92 Gallons per day
1 m3 (1,000 Liters)                               264 Gallons (220 Imp. Gal.)
1 rn3 per hour                                     6,336 Gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                  African Development Bank
CFB            =      Benguela Railway Company
DNPT           =      National Directorate of Territorial Planning
DPS                   Provincial Directorate of Health
DPSC                  Provincial Directorate of Commun ty Services
EPAB                  Provincial Water Company of Benguela
GIS                   Geographic Information System
GPB                   Provincial Government of Benguela
GPP                   Provincial Planning Office
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
INPF                  National Institute of Physical Planning
KAP                   Knowledge Attitude Practice Survey
LARGIS                Land Registration Geographic Information System
LCA                   Lobito Corridor Authority
LCB                   Local Competitive Bidding
MINFIN                Ministry of Finance
MINPLAN               Ministry of Planning
NA                    Not Applicable
NORAD                 Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
ORT                   Oral RehydrationTherapy
PPF                   Project Preparation Facility
SADCC                 Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference
SATCC                 Southern Africa Transport & Communications Commission
SEUHA                 State Sec tariat for Urbanism, Housing and Water
SIDA                  Swedish international Development Authority
TA                    Technical Assistance
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
UNV                   United Nations Volunteers
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANGOLA
LOBrTO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                                           i-v
I. BACKGROUND
A.    Introduction                                                              I
B.     Sectoral Context                                                        2
C.     Sectoral Issues                                                         2
D.    Rationale for Bank Group Involvement                                     S
II. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives                                                       5
B.     Project Description                                                     5
Environmental Sanitation                                         6
Low Income Sanitation                                            8
Institutional Development                                        9
Studies                                                         11
C.     Project Costs                                                          12
D.    Project Financing Plan                                                  14
HI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Institutional Arrangements                                              14
B.     Project Implementation Staff                                           15
C.    Action Plan                                                             16
D.    Procurement                                                              19
E.     Disbursements                                                          21
F.     Project Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting                            21
G.    Key Indicators                                                          22
H.    Mid-Term Review                                                         22
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.    Empresa Provincial de Aguas de Benguela (EPAB)                          23
B.     Cost Recovery                                                          24
C.     Private Sector Development                                             25
D.    Project Benefits                                                        25
E.     Project Justification                                                  26
F.     Project Risks                                                          26
G.    Lessons Learned                                                         27
V. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Agreenents Prior to Negotiations                                        28
B.     Agreements Reached at Negotiations                                     28
C.     Conditions of Credit Effectiveness                                     29
D.    Conditions of Disbursement                                              29
E.     Recommendation                                                         29
This report is based on the findings of an apptaisal mission to Angola in May, 1991, consisting of Mr.
R. Chavez (senior urban planner and mission leader), Ms. T. Genta-Fons (senior counsel), and
consultants Messrs./Mesdames B. Brandberg (sanitation specialist), E. Echeverria (engineer and
planner), J. Ladd (financial analyst), M. Lar-Resnde (ecological planner), M. Pamer (geographer),
and G. Tannerfeldt (architect planner, SIDA). Messrs. B. Menezes and R. Beardmore were the poer
reviewers for the project. Mr. M. Blanc and Mr. F. Aguirre-Sacasa arm the managing division chief
and director respectively for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMficiol duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.jj,
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
PROJECT-RELATED
I  Preliminary Environmental Assessment
2  Water, Sewer, and Storm Drainage Rehabilitation
3  Low Income Sanitation
4  Solid Waste Management
5  Implementation Plan and Key Indicators
6 Detailed Project Costs
7 Financial Analysis
8 Geographical Information System
TERMS OF REFERENCE
9 Water and Sewer Tariff and Institutional Reorganization Study
10 Environmental Management and Monitoring Study
11 Land Registration Study
12 GPP Key Staff
BACKGROUND
13 Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 23181 Angola - Project Location Map
IBRD No. 23182 Lobito Benguela - Project Component Map



-iii-
ANGOLA
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             People's Republic of Angola
Beneficiary:          Provincial Govemment of Benguela (GPB)
Amount:               SDR 33.6 million (US$45.58 million equival.nt).
Tenns:                Standard IDA Terms with 40 years maturity.
Co-Financing:         Norway (NORAD) and Sweden (SIDA)
Project Objectives:
The project is a free-standing environmental project whose main objectives are to: (a) restoie
the water supply and failed sanitary services in order to help eliminate life-threatening
epidemics, improve the health of the population, and halt the degradation of the physical
environment; (b) improve living conditions in the squatter settlements by providing access to
clean water and improved latrines; (c) strengthen the institutions responsible for project
management and for operation, management, and control of urban services and the
environment by providing technical assistance, logistical support, and training; and (d) assist in
policy reform through water and sewer tariff, land registration, and environmental studies.
Project Description:
The project consists of the following components:
a) Environmental Sanitation - rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and
distribution and sanitary sewer systems; rehabilitation of the solid waste management system;
and rehabilitation of the storm drainage and erosion control network;
b) Low Income Sanitation - provision of clean urban water to all unplanned settlements via a
network of 500 standpipes and laundry facilities; a massive improved latrine and sanitary-
environmental education program; and a modest urban revegetation program in the unplanned
settlements;
c) Istitutional Development - consisting of technical assistance and training, and logistical
and administrative support for the Provincial Water Company (EPAB); for the Provincial
Community Services Department (DPSC); and for the Provincial Planning Office (GPP) to
manage and monitor the project as a whole.
d) Studies - to assist the Govermment to reorganize the Provincial Water Company and set
economic water and sewer tariffs; to define policy issues and action plans for environmental
management and monitoring; and to develop a geographic information system and land
registration pilot program. The project would also finance the detailed engineering design and
supervision of the water, sewer, and storm drainage components; and studies for the
preparation of follow-up projects in the infrastructure sector identified during project
implementation.



-iv-
Benrits and Risks:
While justified on health and tnvironmental concerns alone, the proposed project would
facilitate the development of the larger Lobito Corridor rehabilitation program. Major direct
benefits of the project would be measured in terms of improved health of the population, and
in particular of women and children; alleviation of poverty among the lowest income groups in
the squatteT settlements; increased productivity of the urban population; positive impacts on the
physical and socidl envirornment; and increased efficiency of key institutions serving the cities
of Lobito and Benguela. The risks inherent in the proposed project are due to institutional and
technical weaknesses which may cause delays in project implementation and lead to further
environmental and economic deterioration. There is a potential risk that the govermment may
interfere in the administrative autonomy of the provincial water company thereby hindering
reorganization efforts and the cost recovery objectives of the project. Unfamiliarity with Bank
procedures, problems with communications, and a potentially unstable political environment
could lead to significant delays as well. Delays in the overall urban rehabilitation effort could
affect the rehabilitation of the Lobito corridor, once it gets underway. Technical assistance,
training, and logistical support, initiated during project preparation, are intended to minimize
these risks.
Project Cost:
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$58.88 million equivalent with foreign costs of
US$49.20 million which represent 84 percent. The detailed cost estimates in prices as of July
1991 are shown below.
Project Cost Estimates
(USS million)
Percent
Local Foreign    Totat     Totat  Foreign
1. EIVIRONNENTAL SANITATION                       S4.94  $21.24   126.18        45X     81X
A. Water Rehabilitation                         1.44    8.16      9.60       16      85
B. Sewer Rehabititation                         1.18    6.70      7.88       13      85
C. Storm Drainage Works                         1.74    4.06     5.80        10      70
D. Solid Waste Collection & Disposal            0.58    2.32      2.90        5      80
11. LOW INCOhE SANITATION                          $1.55   $2.37    $3.92         7X     601
A. Improved Latrines                            1.08    1.72      2.80        5      61
B. Sanitary-Environmental Education             0.15    0.48      0.63        1      77
C. Urban Revegetation                           0.32    0.18     0.50         1      35
III. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                      $0.59   S8.08    58.67        15S     931
A. Technical Assistance                         0.31    5.45      5.76       10      95
B. Training                                     0.04    0.34     0.38         1      90
C. Aclninistrative/Logistical Support           0.25    2.29     2.54         4      90
IV. STUDIES                                        $0.16   S6.13    56.29        11X     97X
A. Engineering Design & Supervision               -     3.49     3.49         6     100
B. Water & Sewer Tariff & Reorganiz, Study              0.67     0.67         1     100
C. GIS/Land Registration Study                  0.08    0.31     0.39         1      80
D. Environmentat Mgt & Monitoring Study         0.08    0.70      0.78        1      90
E. Other Studies                                  -     0.95      0.95        2     100
V. TOTAL BASE COST                                $7.24  $37.83   $45.06        77X     84K
Physical Contingencies                          0.99    3.81     4.80         8      79
Price Contingencies                             1.45    7.56     9.01        15      84
VI. TOTAL PROJECT COST                             $9.68 S49.20   S58.88        1001     841
Price contingencies are based on estimated international inflation over the life of the
project, averaging 3.9X p.a. per recent IDA guidelInes.
Base costs include taxes on locally procured goods estimated at USS1.3 million
equivalent, financed entirely by Government.



Financing Plan:
(US m;llion)
Percent
Locat      Foreign     Total    of Total
IDA Credit                 $3.38      $42.20       $45.58       77K
NORAD Co-Financing            -          3.50        3.50        6Z
SIDA Co-Financing             -          3.50        3.50        6X
Goverirwent                 6.30          -         $6.30        11X
Total                      $9.68       $49.20      $58.88       100l
Estimated Disbursenents:
(USM zillion)
FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96     FY97      FY98    Total
Co-Financing             4.92    2.08                -        -         -     7.00
IDA                        -     5.81   10.52   13.14      7.89     8.23    45.58
Govermrient              0.63    0.94    1.26    1.57      0.95      0.95     6.30
Total                    5.55    8.83   11.78   14.72      8.83     9.17    58.88
Percent                    9%      15%     20%     25%      15%       16X     100X
IDA Cueulative             -     5.81   16.32   29.47    37.35    45.58
Percent of Total           -       13X     36K     65X      82      100S
Economic Rate of Return:          Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:           Angola-Lobito Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project
Report No. 9794-ANG
Maps:                             IBRD No. 23181 Angola Project Location Map
IBRD No. 23182 Lobito Benguela Project Component Map



I. BACKGROUND
A.     Introduction
1.1    Angola is one of the richest countries in Africa in land and mineral endowment. In the years
since Independence in 1975, however, the economy has become highly distorted because of the rass
exodus of skilled manpower, a debilitating civil war, war-induced rationing and ill-designed economic
policies. The oil industry, developed as an enclave, has grown rapidly and represents about half of
GDP. In contrast, non-oil sectors have performed poorly; growth has been negative and output is
significantly less today than in the early 1970s. Manufacturing industries are crippled by lack of raw
materials, spare parts, and maintenance. Commerce is atrophied by rationing, state ownership, and
rigid govermment controls. Personal incentives are a pervasive casualty, reflected in low wages, high
absenteeism, and flourishing informal markets. The foreign exchange markets provide a measure of
the distortion with a street rate, NKz800, thirteen times the official rate of NKz6O per US$1.00.
Agricultural production and distribution have been severely curtailed by the disruptive civil war in the
countryside. Prior to Independence Angola was an important net exporter of agricultural products, but
in recent yeara has become increasingly dependent on food imports, including food aid, to supply urban
populations, which have burgeoned because of the civil war.
1.2     The Port of Lobito heads the major transportation route of central Angola, the Lobito
transportation corridor, serving 99 market towns, one-third of Angola's population of about 10 million,
and the neighboring countries of Zaire and Zambia. Prior to Independence the Port of Lobito was one
of the most important shipping terminals of South-Central Africa. By 1973 port traffic exceeded three
million tons, more than half Angola's shipping tonnage; and exports were more than half the total.
Agricultural exports accounted for about 20% of total tonnage; and trans-shipment of minerals from
Zaire and Zambia, especially copper, magnesium, zinc, and cobalt, represented 35% of port traffic.
1.3    Caminhos de Ferro de Ben& uela (CFB), Angola's only international railway, links the port of
Lobito and the provincial capital, Benguela, 33 kilometers down the coast, with the mineral belts of
Zaire and Zambia, traversing a total distance of 1,336 kilometers (see Map IBRD No. 23181). Freight
rail activity has been severely curtailed since Independence because of the civil war. The rai way is
closed to international traffic; and national traffic, mostly within Benguela province, has fallen by about
70%. With the signing of the peace accord on May 31, 1991, a major objective of the Government is
to reactivate the flow of goods along the route served by CFB. IDA and other donors are actively
involved in the preparation of a rehabilitation program of the Lobito transportation corridor
1.4    Lobito and Beneuela, twin cities on the coast of central Angola, reflect the problems which
afflict the country. The population of Lobito and Benguela has nearly quadrupled to 800,000 since
Independence, but the delivery of basic services, especially clean water, has diminished by as much as
two-thirds. The problems brought on during the civil war have led to a breakdown of the water, sewer
and waste collection systems in the face of rapidly growing populations. The cities now face public
health and environmental crises of major proportions. Lack of water and basic sanitation have led to
chronic outbreaks of cholera, typhoid and yellow fever. Child mortality is reported at 325 per
thousand, exceeding the Angolan national average, 292 per thousand, and more than twice the rate for
Sub-Saharan Africa (157 per thousand). Morbidity rates, i.e., the incidence of debilitating disease, are
in excess of 35%. Environmental degradation is manifested by other factors, including incipient
desertification, erosion, and pollution of wetlands.



2
1.5    The proposed urban rehabilitation project was first identified at the Southem Africa Transport
and Communication Commission (SATCC) Coordinating Conference held in Luanda in January 1989 to
review the 10 Year Development Plan for the Lobito Transport System of the Lobito Corridor
Authority (LCA), SADCC Project G-CE-1. The Swedish and Norwegian delegations expressed interest
in the rehabilitation of Lobito and proposed that the World Bank, as executing agent, undertake project
preparation and appraisal. A Bank identification mission in June 1989 included both Lobito and
Benggwla because the two cities form an enviicnmvuial microregion and socio-economic conurbation.
In April 1990 the Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) and the Norwegian Agency for
Development Cooperation (NORAD) created a Project Preparation Trust Fund of Swedish Kroners
(SEK) 6.8 million (US$1.2 million) to support the project. SIDA also provided an Emergency
Equipment Fund of SEK 10 million (US$1.8 million) to provide short-term support to the water and
sewerage systems. In May, 1990 the Bank approved an advance under the Project Preparation Facility
of $750,000 to complete the preparation process.
B.     Sectoral Context
1.6    The Bank's Introductory Economic Review (Rerort No. 8906-ANG) indicates Ont Angr!&_s
estimated urban population rose from 15 % in 1970 to 23 % in 1985. Urban growth has been most
dramatic in the relatively secure cities along the Atlantic coast. Despite lack of census data it is
estimated that the population of Luanda, the capital city, tripled from 450,000 to 1.3 million in the ten
years following Independence in 1975, and that the Lobito-Benguela conurbation grew from about
200,000 at Independence to more than 800,000 today.
1.7    Lobito and Benguela no longer stand alone as they did a few years ago. The intensive war-
induced urbanization brought a proliferation of small communities around the cities and rapid,
unplanned settlement in the low hills parallel to the coast (see Map IBRD No. 23182). The alluvial
plain between the hills and coast is well irrigated and intensely cultivated with sugar cane and
vegetables, providing work, food and head-loaded water for many. The railway, unable to ply its
cross-country route, provides the prncipal means of tra sportation between Lobito and Benguela for the
urban poor. CFB shutdes over four million passengers per year, averaging four round trips daily.
Though somewhat smaller than Lobito, Benguela is the provincial capital and has an airport which
serves the two cities.
C.    Sectoral Issues
1.8    Environmental Deradation. Environmental degradation in Lobito and Benguela stems from
the intensity of the urbanization process and the deterioration of urban infrastructure and services. The
population has quadrupled since 1975, due in part to the destabilizing effects of the war, while the
delivery of urban services has fallen sharply. Negative environmental impacts include coastal, surface
and groundwater pollution, soil erosion and depletion of arable land, changes in surface water regimes
and aquatic ecosystems, deforestation and incipient desertification around the conurbation. The adverse
impacts of the degradation of the environment on land and water resources, and in tum on human
health and economic potential, have reached critical proportions.
1.9   Infrastructure and Services. The newer urban population has severely over-burdened the
infrastructure and public utility systems. There has been a significant decline in service and coverage
from levels prior to Independence. With limited investment, severe shortages of replacement
equipment and spare parts, and inadequate maintenance, the basic urban services of water supply,
sewerage, sanitation, and refuse collection are now in a critical state. The Catumbela River basin and
aquifer serving Lobito hold an abundance of water year round; however, the Catumbela wehfield and
pumping equipment are badly deteriorated. Many older wells have been abandoned and of the four
water pumps serving Lobito and Catumbela ten years ago, only two are now in operation. The
Benguela weUlfield is likewise totally inadequate. Nearly 80% of the urban population of Lobito-
Benguela receive no piped municipal water whatsoever. These people use grey water in the streets and



3
canals or rely on private trucks selling water at exorbitant prices to meet minimum daily needs. The
price of trucked water is NKz5O for 30 liters or more than 50 4imes the base rate (see para 1.15).
1.10   Sanitation. The sanitary sewer networks of the central residential areas ate inadequate and
largely inoperative due to lack of rnaintenance. Their reconstruction will serve only 42,000 people in
Lobito and 34,000 in Benguela, about 10% of the present urban population. Hence, Were is an urgent
need for a massive sanitary latrine program to counter observed health and environmental hazards. The
management of increased volumes of solid waste is well beyond the municipalities' present capacity.
The vehicle fleet, 80% non-operational, is obsolete and has been largely cannibalized for spare parts.
Consequently, there are numerous spontaneous garbage dumps along roadsides, in gullies and vacant
lots within the urban area.
1.11   Improved sanitation is critical to hygiene, health and general living conditions in any
developing country. This is especially true in the cities of Lobito and Benguela and their environs.
Even the casual visitor to the unplanned settlements of the Lobito-Benguela conurbation will be shocked
at the lack of water and sanitation, and especially by the open fields of human faeces. Cholera, often
reaching epidemic proportions, has been the most recent killer with a faecal-oral cycle of transmission,
but other diarrhoeal diseases along with malaria and schistosomiasis point to the urgent need for
imnprovement in basic sanitation and sanitary-environmental education. Morbidity rates average 35 % in
the urban area; child mortality in the Province is reported at 325 per thousand, among the -;;hest in
the world, exceeding the national average, 292 per thousand, and more than twice the average for Sub-
Saharan Africa (157 per thousand).
1.12   HousiLg. While the urban expansion on the periphery of Lobito is characterized by
unserviced squatter settlements, the housing stock in the consol;dated areas, including high-rise
apartment buildings, is severely deteriorated from lack of maintenance. Some buildings with broken
pipes and plumbing have become almost uninhabitable. In general the housing stock of the periphery is
of fair standard: a common house type is two room adobe or cement block. Traditional roofing
material is no longer available, and most houses are covered with corrugated sheet metal, which offers
little insulation. In addition, there are pockets of grass-thatched shelters throughout the spontaneous
settlements. The unplanned layout of settlements will further complicate eventual upgrading. The main
problem, however, is the almost total lack of services and infrastructure.
1.13   During project preparation IDA and SIDA initiated investigations into the housing situation
with a view to possible inclusion of housing components in the project. The investigations revealed
many serious protbems, including a general housing shortage; acute shortages of building materials;
outdated maps and cadastral information; lack of socioeconomic information; non-existence of a
housing policy; lack of clear ownership status of buildings and land; and lack of a housing finance
system. The conclusion during appraisal was that the problems of the housing sector are of a
magnitude and complexity that will require a concerted effort by government and donors commencing
with policy reform at the national level.
1.14   Institutions. The Provincial Govermment of Benguela overshadows the municipal and local
governments which are weak. As is the case throughout the country, administrative bodies at all levels
were depleted of qualified human resources after independence. The main problems continue to be lack
of managers and technicians at all levels, lack of equipment and spare parts, low salaries, and excessive
absenteeism. Among institutions there are conflicts in jurisdiction, overlapping responsibility and
authority. A system of 'dupla suborcdLao", or double subordination to central ministries and
provincial government, prevails although there is a trend toward decentralization. The Director of the
Provincial Planning Office, for example, reports both to the Provincial Governor and to the Ministry of
Planning in Luanda. Until March, 1990 the water and electrical authorities were provincial branches of
national parastatals; today they are provincial authorities.



4
1.15   Financial Constraints: Low Rents and Tariffs. Rents, tariffs, uses charges and taxes are
totally inadequate. For example, monthly runts of state-owned apartments and houses are fixed at
NKz2000 for a two bedroom house or apartment with a living room, kitchen and bath, and NKz2S00
for a three bedroom unit. These figures represent US$33 and US$42 per mon'th at the official rate
(NKz60 per US$), and a nominal rent of only US$2-3 per month at the parallel market rate (NKz800
per USS). Many tenants opt to pay twelve months rent at a time as a matter of convenience. Water
tariffs are fixed at the rate of NKz1O per cubic meter of estimated consumption. Proposals are pending
to double or triple the water rate to NKz2O or NKz3O per cubic meter, US$0.33-0.50 at the official
exchange rate, but only US$0.03-0.04 at the parallel market rate. There is apparent willingness to
address the problem of inadequate rents and tariffs in the Government's financial and economic
adjustment plans. A tariff study to determine economnic water and eewerage tariffs is included in the
project.
1.16   Financial Constraints: Control of Loal Resources. The state of disrepair of local
infrastructure is partially explained by the centralized budgetaiy and financial management system in
effect in recent years. Local revenues were ehannelled entirely to the central government which made
partial budgetary allocations to local service providers. Although there is movement toward
decentralization in some sectors, housing rents continue to accrue to the central budget.
The allocation to the Secretariado Provincial de Habitacao, Urbanismo e Aguas (SEUHA), the agency
charged with management of the state-owned housing stock, has averaged about 20% of rents collected,
sufficient to meet payroll and administrative overheads but inadequate for even rudimentary
maintenance.
1.17   International Aid. Several foreign governments and many private non-governmental
organizations have active aid programs in Angola. Prominent among these are Sweden, Norway,
Portugal, France, Germany, Italy, Spain and Canada. The United Nations group has a large presence
in Angola ranging from military observers of the cease fire agreement to numerous economic, social
and humanitarian assistance programs. The UNDP, for example, has identified over 100 projects
which it is funding or promoting to other donors. The African Development Bank (AfDB) is also
active in Angola with projects planned in infrastructure and productive sectors.
1.18   Angola joined the World Bank Group in September 1989. Bank lending strategy is in three
parts. The initial focus is on technical assistance and pre-investment operations, which has led to the
first two IDA credits: the Economic Management Capacity Building Project (US$23.0 million) and an
Infrastructure Rehabilitation Engineering Project (US$42.0). These projects will help formulate
economic policy strategies and recommendations, and provide studies for the rehabilitation of key
transport and urban infrastructure systems. A second part of Bank lending strategy is assistance in the
rehabilitation of key infrastructures. The proposed Lobito Benguela Urban Environmental
Rehabilitation Project is the first of these. Other projects in the social services, transport (including
the Lobito/Benguela rail corridcr), and electric power sectors are in preparation. Finally, the Bank
may consider financial support for the Government's economic adjustment program, once the
authorities have demonstrated a commitment to reform and made sufficient progress in adopting key
policy measures emanating from the studies financed in this and other Bank supported projects.
1.19   Sectoral Obiectives - The Government's main objectives for the sector are:
a)     Rehabilitation of basic urban services;
b)     Provision of water and basic urban services to the lower income population;
C)     Decentralization of management and control of public utilities serving principal
municipalities;
d)     Gradual divestiture of public enterprises responsible for manufacture and distribution
of building materials;
e)     The gradual divestiture of the publicly owned housing atock; and



5
f)     Introuuction of cost recovery principles through economnic rents, tariffs, and user
charger.
D.    Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.20   The Bank's Introductory Economic Review identified rehabilitation of urban infrastructure and
services as one area vital to the renewed economic viability of the country. In this case, the project
would help reverse the environmental degradation which has reached crisis proportions and threatens
tho sustained development of one of the country's key urban areas, It would also have a major impact
on public health and make a significant contribution to the alleviation of poverty. Experience gained
from the project, and the studies financed by the project, will deepen the Bank's '-nowledge of the
urban sector and of related environmental issues, thereby contributing to the dev ;lopment of Bank-
supported infrastructure projects in other urban centers. The project will also lay the foundation for
urban policy reforms, including cost recovery. In addition, by taking the lead in this project, with the
support of Sweden and Norway, the Bank will better be able to coordinate the contributions of
numerous donors in the large projects emanating from the Lobito Corridor Development Program,
estimated at nearly a billion dollars over the next 15 years.
II THE PROJECT
A.     Project Objectives
2.1    Environmental improvements were a major focus of project preparation which led to its
classification as a Category D Environmental Project under the guidelines of Operational Directive
4.00, Annex A on Environmental Assessments. The main objectives of the project are: (a) to eliminate
life-threatening epidemics, improve the health of the population, and halt the degradation of the
physical environment by restoring the water supply and failed sanitary services; (b) to improve living
conditions in the squatter settlements by providing clean wLer, improved latrines, and a revegetation
program; (c) to strer ,then the institutions respr. -ble for current operation, management, and control
of urban services and the environment by prov.. X technical ass.stance, logistical support, and
training; and (d) assist in policy reform througii water and sewer tariff, land registration, and
environmental studies.
2.2    Worldwide experience documents a high rate of falure of sanitation programs and projects
when focus on the technology disregards socio-economic, cultural, religious, and political factors.
Therefore, the low cost sanitation component includes a major sanitary-environmental education
program designed on the interests, needs and knowledge level of community participants, identified
through intensive dialogue. Initial talks with community leaders in the squatter settlements, the director
and staff of the Provincial Ministry of Health, and the director of public health of the University of
Luanda show a high level of concern for emergency measures, and a deep commitment to long-term
development of a successful sanitary-environmental education program. Elements under consideration
include emergency measures, studies, education and training, described below.
B.     Project Description
2.3    The project would consist of the following four basic components (detailed analysis of each of
the componenes is shown in the respective annexes):
a) Environmental Sanitation, including rehabilitation of the water and sanitary sewerage
networks; the solid waste management systems; and the storm drainage networks;



6
b) Low lncome Sanitation, including major improved latrine and sanitary-enviromental
education programs and a small urban revegetation component;
c) Institutional Development, including technical assistance and training for Provincial
,enlementing agencies responsible respectively for the operation and maintenance of the provincial
water and sewer systems (EPAB); solid waste management; low cost sanitation, and sanitary-
environmental education programs (DPSC); and overall planning, project management, and monitoring
(GPP). Administrative and logistical support to the project includes acquisition of vehicles,
telecomnmunication and office equipment, supplies, and spare parts for project use.
d) Studihf, including detailed engineering design and supervision of the water, sewer, and
storm drainage components; and the following area-specific studies: a water and sewer tariff and
institutional reorganization study; an environmental mnanagement and monitoring study; and a
geographic information system and land registration study. The project would also finance annual
audits of project accounts, and studies for the design and preparation of follow-up projects in the
infrastructure sector, identified during project implementation.
Environmental Sanitation
2.4    Water Supply - Lobito.  The objectives of this component are to rehabilitate the present
networks, to double the water supply in both cities, and to extend the municipal water supply to the
entire urban area, via public standpipes in all squatter settlements, nearly 400,000 people, or half the
urban population. Expected demand for water at the standpipes in both cities is estimated at about 20%
of the total urban demand (10,000 m3 of the combined new capacity of 48,000 m3 per day). In Lobito
installed capacity will be increased from 300 m3 (nominal 600 n3) to 1,000 m3 per hour (24,000 m3 per
day) with the rehabilitation of the existing wellfield and the installation of a new wellfield of six new
wells along the Catumbela river; a new chlorination station; and a new 500 mm transmission main
feeding the existing 500 mm main to Lobito, Bela Vista, and Alto Liro. Pumping stations and
reservoirs will be refurbished to provide storage capacity of over 50% of daily production. The
rehabilitated network is designed to supply about 100 liters per capita per day to those with house
connections. A network of 300 standpipes will provide 25-30 liters per capita daily to other
settlements. Each standpipe with four taps and laundry facilities would serve about 150 families (800-
1,000 persons) within a maximum walking distance of 200 meters. Each standpipe will be equipped
with a securely locked water meter set into the standpipe. The main commercial and industrial
enterprises, apartment buildings, and residential areas will be connected with new water meters that
will remain the property of EPAB. The estimated cost of the Lobito water supply rehabilitation is
US$5.4 million.
2.5    Water Supply - Beneuela. In Benguela the existing wellfield is surrounded by residential and
industrial buildings with no room for expansion. Present capacity is a nominal 470 m3 per hour;
however current output is estimated at less than one-third, or about 150 m3 per hour. Water demand in
Benguela in 1990 is calculated at 760 m3 per hour. The increased water production to 1,000 n3 per
hour corresponds to projected demand for Benguela in the year 2000. Nine non-functioning wells will
be abandoned while three will be rehabilitated by cleaning, video inspection, repairs, well head
improvements, testing, and disinfection. In addition, a new wellfield would be constructed along the
Cavaco River aquifer consisting of six new wells. The new wellfield has been designed for a peak
flow of 500 m3 per hour. The treatment plant has a present capacity of 500 m3 per hour and is
designed to remove iron and manganese from the water. Water quality in terms of bacteria count is
satisfactory with no harmful pathogens; therefore, the project does not include expansion of the
treatment plant. A network of 200 standpipes and wash basins would be provided for the squatter
settlements on the periphery of Benguela in a pattern similar to the Alto Liro and Bela Vista programs
described above. As in Lobito, the standpipes would be equipped with water meters; and the main
commercial and industrial users and larger apartment buildings would also be metered. The estimated
cost of the Benguela water supply rehabilitation is US$4.2 mnillion.



7
2.6   SantrSE~rs - Lobito. The present network, serving the main commercial area and low-
rise aparment buildings, is clogged in at least half its length, while in the other half raw sewage drains
directly into the tidal lagoon - a habitat of the pink and white flamingos. A new gravity network would
be provided with two lift stations and a force main connected to the Cornpao system. The Compao
network and lift stations were virtually complete in 1975; however, since Independence, no work has
been done. The gravity lines have become choked and the abandoned pumping station filled with
debris and sludge. This network would be rehabilitated along wish the house connections. Two lift
stations would be rehabilitated and equipped with new pumps and controls, and a third would be
equipped with a force main to a series of oxidation ponds two kilometers south of the city. The ponds
will be located on what is waste land today. The treated effluent would be used to irrigate fruit trees
and a tree nursery to close the cycle. The estimated cost of Lobito sewer rehabilitation is US$3.9
million.
2.7    Sanitary Sewers - Benouela. The sanitary sewage network, serving only a small portion of
the center of Benguela, is partially broken and clogged. Part of the raw sewage eventually leaks onto
the beaches in front of the city. Most of the buildings have septic tanks that overflow into hallways,
back patios and streets. This condition is one of the main sources of cholera in Benguela. The central
area of Benguela including all buildings above two stories will be connected to a new gravity network.
An interceptor sewer will pick up the open sewer pipes that dump raw sewage into the Coringe storm
drainae channel. Two sewage pumping stations would be provided along with a force main of four
kilometers that will connect to a series of oxidation ponds to the south of the city, where there is
adequate capacity for future needs. As in Lobito, the treated effluent would irrigate fruit trees and a
tree nursery to close the cycle. The estimated cost of Benguela sewer rehabilitation is US$3.98
million.
2.8    Storn DrainaFe - Beng_uela. The Vala do Coringe drains a major portion of the city of
Benguela and has a drainage basin of 60 square kilometers extending inland about 18 kilometers. Over
the years the four kilometer channel that traverses the urban area has become choked with garbage, raw
sewage and vegetation. With the scarcity of fresh water, slum dwellers have dug mud holes amongst
the debris to wash their clothing. The mud holes attract children who play in the dirty water, thus
turning the Vala into a rzajor source of disease and a health hazard to the city. The project would
provide a 3.8 kilometer dressed open channel that follows the present alignment and gradient to a sea
outfall. Lateral storm drains with large inlets on the south side have been included to reduce the flash
floods in adjacent neighborhoods (bairros). To lower peak flows an earthen retention pond has been
designed east of the airport to provide a five to six hour retention of about 600,000 cubic meters
capacity. In addition eight small velocity check dams of 2.5 to 3.0 meters in height, using gabions,
would be built upstreama and downstream of the main dam as well as the parallel tributary. Trees
would be planted along both sides of the chasnel to provide a canopy of shade. The estimated cost of
Benguela storm drainage rehabilitation is US$3. 18 million.
2.9    Stor-m Drainage - Lobito. The seven major storm drainage gullies in the bairros of Alto
Liro, Bela Vista, and Vila de Catumbela, overlooking the port and industrial area, have become heavily
eroded as squatters have occupied the slopes, cutting the vegetation and notcbing small ledges to build
their huts. Many have built in the bottoms of the gullies, The April rains this year demolished many
huts and caused fourteen deaths. Before Independence the Portuguese built a few erosion control dams.
Most of these are now filled with debris and sediment but do function as velocity check dams. The
project would provide a series of retention/velocity check dams in each of the seven drainage basins.
A prototypical design using gabions has been prepared with heights of dam between three and four
meters. A total of fifty such dams would be provided, set 300 to 400 meters apart. The estimated cost
of Lobito storm drainage rehabilitation is US$2.56 million,
2.10   Solid _Wste Mananemnt. While some equipment has been acquired recently to improve the
capacity of the DPSC to manage solid waste, only about 15% of urban waste is now collected,
primarily in the downtown areas, and only part of that is disposed in the garbage dumps of Lobito and



8
Benguela. Service to the peripheral settlements is hampered by lack of equipment and poor road
conditions which in turn contribute to the breakdown of vehicles. As a result, spontaneous dumps have
proliferated along the main roads and in vacant areas in the low income settlements, where pigs and
chickens feed and children scavenge for recyclable materials. Due to the lack of latrines, the dumps
have a high content of human faeces. The situation results from lack of resources for equipment and
spare parts (85% of the recurrent budget is dedicated to salaries), low technical capacity, inefficient
organization and weak management. Not surprisingly, the work force is poorly motivated and
productivity is very low.
2.11   The solid waste management component would respond to this situation with a two phase plan
providing the municipal authorities of Lobito and Benguela with vehicles, tools and equipment,
technical assistance and training. The first phase would consist of the urgent removal of the
spontaneous dumps from the peripheral settlements, while beginning to establish a system of 2.5 m3 and
10 m3 containers in these areas, and repair of the municipal vehicle maintenance workshops,
accompanied by techhical assistance and the sani-.ry-environmental education campaign described
below. The second phase would complete the distribution of containers in the periphery and introduce
the use of 800 liter containers in the built-up downtown areas of Lobito, Benguela and Catumbela.
Provision of equipment for shop rehabilitation, vehicle maintenance, and enclosure and management of
the dumps would be concluded in the second phase. Technical assistance would develop the strategic
plan for solid waste management and train staff at the various levels. Completion of the program is
scheduled two years after the arrival of the management advisors (see institutional development below)
and the first part of the tools, materials and equipment. The estimated cost of the solid waste
management component for Lobito and Benguela is US$2.9 million.
Low Income Sanitation
2.12   Improved Latrines. This component consists of the dissemination of a low cost sanitation
technology, based on the production and sale of a dome-shaped improved latrine slab. The slab
incorporates important features for hygiene and child safety, and can be easily installed on the top of a
simple pit (1.10 meters in diameter). During project preparation a pilot program was launched, in
which over 1,0(X) latrine slabs were built, to test the design, methods of production, and acceptability
of the improved latrine. DPSC has organized centralized materials storage and production in Lobito
and Benguela in order to control quality and the use of cement. As a consequence, trucks will be
required to transport building materials to production centers in Lobito and Benguela, and finished slabs
to distribution centers throughout the urban area. The latrine slabs are sold for cash (NKz3000 in July
1991) directly to beneficiaries, with free advice on proper ways to prepare pits for installation. Local
cart transport will deliver the slabs from the point of sale to the latrine building sites. While trucks
will be imported, the hand-pushed carts will be produced locally. The improved latrine program aims
to install 100,000 units by 1998 representing nearly 90% of the estimated requirements of the low
income population.
2.13   A vigorous promotional campaign is necessary to support the program, as use of latrines is not
yet customary. Particular attention will be given to the active involvement and training of community
leaders who will conduct the bulk of the promotional program using a wide range of media, including
conventional sanitary-environmental education, drama and festivals, community sports competitions,
leadership training and commercial stratagems. Promotional materials include T-shirts, caps, ball-point
pens, stickers, etc., featuring hygiene and the use of improved latrines. The goal of the promotional
component is to create a strong sustained demand for latrines. On-the-job training will be supervised
by the resident sanitation adviser with the assistance of two United Nations Valunteers, an instructor in
sanitary-environmental education and a construction supervisor. In addition, draft manuals have been
prepared on management of the program, construction of improved latrines, promotion, sanitary
education, and how to work with people. Study tours will be arranged to visit similar programs in
other African countries (e.g., Mozambique and Zimbabwe), to exchange experience and encourage
conmmitment to the project. The estimated cost of the improved latrine component is US$2.80 million.



9
2.14   Sanitarv-Environmental Education. The low income sanitation program includes a major
element in sanitary-environmental education, designed to safeguard the investment in improved
infrastructure (water and sewerage), and to improve the health of the population. Initial talks with
community leaders in the squatter settlements (musseques), with the director and staff of the Provincial
Ministry of Health, and the director of public health of the University of Luanda show a high level of
concem and deep commitment to long-term development of a successful sanitary-environmental
education program. Elements under consideration include emergency measures, studies, education and
training. Current disease patterns highlight water-borne and water-washed disease transmission,
especially cholera and diarrhoeal diseases. While teaching oral rehydration therapy (ORT) and personal
hygiene, health workers should also emphasize the basic links between health, water and sanitation. As
the ORT program is enhanced, a sanitary-environmental education component can easily be introduced
in a way that concern about diseases would lead to increased use of latrines.
2.15   Base-line studies would be carried out in selected pilot areas to help determine the actual
environmental health profile of the musseques. The studies would be undertaken with the assistance of
public health students of the University of Angola, and should include a knowledge, attitude, 'nd
practice survey (KAP-study) covering such specifics as water, sanitation, personal hygiene, faecal-oral
disease transmission, and latrine use. There are various channels for community-based education which
can successfully reach the targeted population. Official channels would include sanitary-envirommental
education elements in the broader program of health education and in the schools. As in the latrine
program, leadership training is crucial to the success of sanitary-environmental education; and
community religious, political, and cultural leaders would receive maximum support from the project.
Educational techniques include radio, television, posters, music, theater, puppets, and promotional
material. Several radio interviews have already been aired; selected musicians and artists have shown
interest in developing popular material to amplify the community-based education focus. The estimated
cost of the sanitary-environmental education component is US$0.63 million.
2.16   Urban Revenetation, including trees, shrubs, and grasses, will improve soil fertility and the
microclimate and provide an important measure of erosion control. The program is divided in two
parts, revegetation of poor neighborhoods, linked to the latrine program; and erosion control on the
beaches and major storm water channels. A tree planting program started in March 1991 by the GPP
and DPSC, following guidelines provided during project preparation, met with good initial acceptance.
The program would be extended to all standpipe-wash basin stations; to the Vala do Coringe in
Benguela; and to escarpment slopes and drainage channels suffering major erosion in Lobito. To
strengthen the program the project would provide three water trucks, cacimbas (open wells) with
pumps, and other tools and equipment to develop the capacity of DPSC nurseries to produce and
distribute the required stock and assist the communities in planting, care, and maintenance. Trees
distributed by the latrine program would be irrigated with domestic wastewater. Benefits include
increasing the life span of latrines and decreasing stagnant water in backyards, streets and common
areas. The estimated cost of the urban revegetation component is US$0.5 million.
Institutional Development
2.17   Technical Assistance. An important aspect of project preparation has been the assessment of
the capacity and work load of the implementing agencies: GPP, DPSC, and EPAB. All three agencies
are staffed with a nucleus of dedicated and capable people. Each agency, however, is faced with
multiple tasks and responsibilities, in addition to the project. It was therefore deemed essential to
support the existing structures with important inputs of technical assistance in order to ensure timely
implementation and to meet the institutional improvement objectives of the project. With this in mind
teams have been designed to support each implementing agency with long- and short-term consultants,
including two United Nations Volunteers. A condition of credit effectiveness is appointment of the key
staff of GPP, including confirmation of the Director as Project Manager, and employment of the
project technical coordinator, the financial controller, and the procurement advisor, on terms
satisfactory to IDA. Terms of Reference for GPP Key Staff are included at Annex 12.



10
2.18   The proposed DPSC consulting support is in two parts: a) the solid waste management
component, comprising two long-term resident engineers to organize and operate solid waste collection
and disposal and to organize the vehicle and equipment maintenance workshops; and b) the low income
sanitation program, consisting of a long-term resident sanitation advisor, assisted by two United Nations
Volunteers, for sanitary-environmental education, and for construction supervision. The proposed
technical assistance for EPAH consists of three resident long term nanagers, an operations manager, a
mechanical engineer, and a financial manager. Terms of reference for technical assistance to EPAB
would be defined during the EPAB institutional reorganization studies (para 2.24). Consultants will be
hired through experienced firms insofar as possible in order to ensure team integrity and responsibility,
and to minimize Bank supervision requirements. All consultants, firms and individuals, will be
contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
bv World Bank as Executina Agency, dated August, 1981. The budget for Terhnical Assistance, in
Annex 6 Detailed Project Costs, covers the cost of ten long term resident advisors, including two
United Nations Volunteers, at 36 months each (360 months), and three short term advisors (30
months), a total of 390 man months at an average monthly cost of about US$15,000. The estimated
cost of technical assistance is US$5.76 million.
2.19   Training. The principal form of training in the proposed project is on-the-job training which
is a direct benefit of the technical assistance inputs described above. A limited amount of overseas
training would supplement on-the-job training, a total of US$375,000 for GPP, DPSC, and EPAB staff.
GPP overseas training includes six man/months of seninars for the project director and key staff in
project management, six man/months of training for specialists in the Geographical Information
System, and three man/months in environmental issues. DPSC overseas training anticipates twelve
man/months in municipal management, solid waste management, and low cost sanitation. EPAB
overseas training would be formulated in the Water and Sewer studies described in parm 2.24 below.
The education budget for sanitary-environtental education and promotion of improved latrines,
described above, is US$625,000. Thus, the total estimated cost of the training budget is US$1.0
million.
2.20   Adninistrative and Logistical Support. The project contains a substantial administrative
equipment budget of US$2.54 million to support the implementing agencies and their respective
consulting teams. Need for administrative and logistical support has been clearly established during
project preparation and confirmed at appraisal; it is a consequence of the poor condition of equipment
and scarcity of supplies as a result of the civil war. The largest item, US$850,000, is budgeted for
office repair and equipment for GPP, DPSC, and EPAB, including furniture, computers, printers and
software, photocopiers, and drafting and reproduction equipment. US$500,000 is budgeted for project
vehicles, allowing one each for the use of long-term resident foreign consultants and their local
counterparts. The telecomrmunications equipment budget, US$250,000, provides for small networks of
Walkie Talkie type equipment for key emnployees of the implementing agencies, and a dedicated
telecommunications system for direct communications with Luanda, not now possible because of the
obsolete, mostly inoperative, phone system in place. Finally, there is provision in the project for
US$150,000 to purchase furniture and appliances for the housing of long-term expatriate consultants,
US$15,000 for each of ten households. The balance of the administrative and logistical support budget
is for spare parts (15%), and office supplies (10% per annum for three years).
2.21   For its part the Provincial Government provided assurances during negotiations that it would
provide counterpart personnel and adequate office facilities for the technical, administrative, and
consulting staffs of GPP, EPAB, and DPSC. The project would finance the repair of office facilities
for GPP, EPAB, and DPSC, and the Government would be responsible for ongoing maintenance and
operation of these facilities. The Government would be responsible for the provision, necessary repair,
and maintenance of appropriate housing for each of the long-term consultants. In addition, the
Government would pay all costs of vehicle operation and maintenance, including fuel costs, insurance,
and repair services of the vehicles purchased by the project for the use of staff and consultants.



12
ecological baseline for the area. The action plan will assist local authorities responsible for
enviromnental management and economic development within the region. The findings and
recommendations of the environmental studies will provide the comerstone for environmental
rehabilitation and sustainable management of the area's resources and ensure proper monitoring of the
impacts of the project. The studies will organize environmental information in an applied form to
permit direct use by local decision makers and to assist local government build a capacity for
environmental rehabilitation, planning, management and monitoring within the Lobito-Benguela region
and the Province. In addition, specific monitoring studies will complement data collected for the
diagnostic, thus contributing to the implementation of all major components of the project. The
environmental studies will be carried out by GPP to ensure adequate consideration at an approprIate
level of government in the context of overall economic and social planning. This work will be
complemented by the sanitary-environmental education program, which will provide the education and
training necessary to introduce and ensure enviromnental management at the community and individual
levels. The studies call for a total of 33 man/months of effort, including a project
manager/environmental advisor in residence for 21 months. The proposed studies are scheduled to
commence in March 1992 and have a duration of 21 months, until December 1993. An interim report
will be completed by December 1992 in anticipation of the project mid-term review. Total cost of the
environmental studies is estimated at US$783,000.
2.2,   Land Reaistration Study (Annex 11). The cadastral information system in Lobito Benguela
covers only part of the built up downtown areas and has not been updated since Independence. There
is essentially no socio-economic or geographic data for 80% of the present urbanized areas. Cost
recovery, or any other measures of control requiring basic spatial and economic information, are
virtually impossible. The Land Registration GIS (LARGIS) is a simplified computer-based land
registration system which will make it possible to identify all taxable property. User charges and
property taxes would be assessable and levied for the first time, thereby recovering costs and
generating financial resources for the provision of improved urban services. The objective of the
proposed two-year study is to utilize the GIS component of the project to develop a Land Registration
G3IS (LARGIS) application and pilot program. While the specific use of LARGIS is to support taxation
management for project cost recovery, a more general use of LARGIS extends to overall project
management. The tasks of physical addressing, land registration, and popular participation would
require substantial fieldwork in the pilot study areas, involving local staff and local training. Study
implementation is programmed over nine calendar months and would involve 13.5 man/months of
expatriate effort, two-thirds on site, and 27 mnan/months of local input. The budget for the land
registration study is estimated at US$393,000.
C.     Project Costs
2.27   Total Project Costs are estimated at US$58.88 million of which US$49.20 million is foreign
and US$9.68 million local expenditure. The Detailed Cost Tables are set forth in Annex 6 and
summarized in Tables 2.1 and 2.2 below. Base cost estimates are in constant prices as of July 1991.
The cost of civil works was estimated based on the consultant's final designs and recent bid prices or
quotations for similar works or equipment. Imported goods and equipment would be free of customs
duties and internal taxes. Taxes on locally procured goods, mainly fuel, are estimated at 15 percent of
local costs, or US$1.287 million, and have been included. These would be financed entirely by
counterpart funds. Physical contingencies of 15% have been added to the base cost of civil works and
equipment, since the final cost of rehabilitation of the water and sewer systems will not be known until
the networks are cleaned and tested. No physical contingencies have been allowed for technical
assistance, training and education, studies, or other consulting services.



11
2.22   Geonamuhical InforMation System. The Geographic Information System (GIS) is a user
friendly, low cost, desktop conmputing facility for processing, using and printing digital maps and
images. Preparation of the GIS component started following the June 1989 identification mission, when
it was discovered that the most recent mnaps where almost twenty years old. The work thus far includes
installation of equipment, spatial data acquisition and processing, development of appropriate tools and
methods, training, hardcopy imagemap production, and documentation. The two primary tasks of the
GIS are: a) to design and implement a Land Registration GIS system (LARGIS) in support of tax
managament for overall project cost recovery; and b) to provide technical support for the environmental
and low income sanitation components, and mapping for the environmental management and monitoring
studies. The budiget to complete development of the GIS is US$336,000, of which US$135,000 is for
short term consultancy; US$79,000 is for computer equipment, site preparation, and supplies; and
US$57,000 is for overseas training. The balance, US$65,000, is the value assigned to local salaries,
the responsibility of the Provincial Government. The GIS technology, progress to date, and program,
including the Termns of Reference for the consultant, are described in Annex 8.
Studies
2.23   The studies budget for the proposed project is US$6.29 million including US$3.49 million for
engineering design and supervision and US$1.85 for three studies agreed during appraisal: a) Water
and Sewer Tariff and Reorganization Studies; b) Environmental Management and Monitoring Studies;
and c) a Land Registration Study. In addition, US$750,000 is included to prepare follow-up projects to
be agreed during implementation; and US$200,000 is reserved for annual audits of project accounts
during the six-year life of the project. The studies agreed during appraisal, along with draft Terms of
Reference, are described briefly in the following paragraphs and in detail in the respective Annexes.
2.24   Water & Sewer Tariff and Reorganization Studies (Annex 9). The water and sewer studies
are integral components of the proposed project. The objective of the tariff study is to assist the
Provincial Government to define and implement economic rates for water and sewer services so that the
full costs of investment, operation, maintenance, and replacement of the rehabilitated systems can be
recovered without recourse to subsidy. The purpose of the institutional reorganization study is to assist
the Provincial Government in the establishment of an autonomous and efficient service company
capable of assuming operating responsibility for the rehabilitated networks. To this end the institutional
reorganization study wili assist provincial authorities in the design of the reorganized entity, in an
analysis of alternative ownership and operating arrangements, and in the selection of appropriate
manAagemenAt, technical assistance, and training inputs. In addition, the stuOy team will design and
monitor a Rilot vrogram to test selected methods of organization, billing and collection of water sold at
standpipes in Lobito and Benguela (pam 3.15). It is anticipated that one firm will be awarded a
contract to undertake the water and sewer tariff and institutional reorganization studies and to organize
and monitor the standpipe pilot program. The studies would involve a total of 30 man/months of
consultant inputs. Contract signature, scheduled for March 1992, is a condition of effectiveness of the
IDA Credit. Mobilization of the consulting team will begin immediately thereafter, and the first of
three visits to Lobito and Benguela is scheduled for May 1992. All studies would be completed by
lanuary 31, 199?. The findings and recommendations of the reorganization and tariff studies constitute
important inputs into the decision-making process incorporated in the annual water and sewer tariff
review (pam 4.7) and the project mid-term review (pam 3.38). Startup of civil works on rehabilitation
of the water and sanitary sewerage networks is scheduled for July 1992; and the mid-term review is
scheduled to begin in September, 1993. Thus the consultant's final reports and recommendations
would be available for review by the Provincial Government and the World Bank approximately eight
months prior to the mid-term review. The estimated cost of the water and sewer institutional
reorganization and tariff studies is US$670,000.
2.25   Environmental ManaWaMent and Monitoring Studies (Annex 10). The primary objective of
the shudies is to prepar an enviromnental diagnostic and action plan for the Lobito-Benguela
microregion. The diagnostic will complement the preliminary environmental assessment and set the



13
Table 2.1
Project Cost Estimates
(USS million)
Percent
Locat Foreign    Total     Total  Foreign
1. EWVIROWIENTAL SANITATION                       $4.94  $21.24   $26.18        45X     81
A. Water Rehabilitation                         1.44    8.16      9.60       16      85
B. Sewer Rehabititation                         1.18    6.70      7.88       13      85
C. Storm Drainage Works                         1.74    4.06     5.80        10      70
D. Solid Waste Collection & Disposal            0.58    2.32      2.90        5      80
II. LOW INCOME SANITATION                          $1.55   $2.37    $3.92         72     60
A. Improved Latrines                            1.08    1.72      2.80        5      61
B. Sanitary-Environmental education             0.15    0.48      0.63        1      77
C. Urban Revegetation                           0.32    0.18     0.50         1      35
111. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPNENT                      $0.59   $8.08    $8.67        15X     93
A. Technical Assistance                         0.31    5.45      5.76       10      95
B. Training                                     0.04    0.34      0.38        1      90
C. Administrative/Logistical Support            0.25    2.29      2.54        4      90
IV. STUDIES                                        $0.16   $6.13    $6.29        11X     97
A. Engineering Design & Supervision (15%)         -     3.49      3.49        6     100
B. Water & Sewer Tariff & Reorganiz. Study        -    0.67       0.67        1     100
C. GIS/Land Registration Study                  0.08    0.31      0.39        1      80
D. Environmental Mgt & Monitoring Study         0.08    0.70      0.78        1      90
E. Other Studies                                  *     0.95     0.95         2     100
V. TOTAL BASE COST                                $7.24  $37.E3   $45.06        77X     842
Physical Contingencies (15%)                    0.99    3.81     4.80         8      79
Price Contingencies                             1.45    7.56     9.01        15      84
VI. TOTAL PROJECT COST                             $9.68  $49.20   $58.88       lOO1     84X
Price contingencies are based on estimated internationaL inflation over the life of the
project, averaging 3.9% p.a. per recent IDA guidelines.
Base costs include taxes on Locally procured goods estimated at US$1.3 million
equivalent, financed entirely by Government.
Table 2.2 Prqject Cost Summary by Type of Expenditure
CUSS Million)                                Percent
Local  Foreign   Total   Total Foreign
Works                                             $5.77 $18.92   $24.69       42%    77X
Goods                                              0.82    6.50      7.32     12X    89X
TechnicaL Assistance                               0.31    5.45      5.76     10%    95X
Design, Supervision, Studies                       0.16    5.38      5.54      9X    97X
Training                                           0.18    0.82      1.00      21    82%
Total Base Costs                                  $7.24  $37.07   S44.31      75x    842
Physical Contingencies                             0.99    3.81      4.80      8%    791
Price Contingencies                                1.45    7.56      9.01     151    84K
Refinancing of PPF                                    -    0.75      0.75      2%   100X
Total Project Costs                               $9.68  $49.20   $58.88    10X2    84(
2.28    Price Contingencies have been added to base costs plus physical contingencies. Lnsumuch as
there is no index of domestic inflation in Angola (underlying inflation is esti-nated at 20% per annum),
local and foreign costs are calculated in dollars, and all price contingencies are based on recent
estimates of intemational inflation. Following current IDA guidelines an average annual rate of
inflation of 3.9% is assumed for the years of projected disbursement, Fiscal Years 1993-1998. Price
contingencies so calculated are estimated at US$9.01 million, or 19.99% of total base costs (including
the Project Preparation Facility).



14
D.    Project Financing Plan
2.29   IDA, together with the Swedish and Norwegian aid agencies, would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of the project and 90% of the total cost of the erosion control and low income
sanitation components. The Government would finance approximately 65% of local currency
expenditures, primarily in the form of locally procured labor and building materials. The Swedish and
Norwegian Governments have expressed interest in participating via project grants in the amount of
US$7.0 million. These grants would be administered by IDA. Thus the Financing Plan in the table
below shows IDA's participation at US$45.58 million, the Government's participation at US$6.30
million, and co-financing of US$7.0 million, representing 77%, 11 %, and 12% respectively of total
project costs.
Table 2.3 Project Financing Plan
CUS$ sit I ion)
Percent
Locat    Foreign    Total   of Total
IDA Credit             $3.38     S42.20    $45.58      77X
NORAD Grant              -         3.50      3.50       6X
SIDA Grant               -         3.50      3.50       6X
Goverrunent             6.30                $6.30      11%
Total                  $9.68     $49.20     $58.88    100X
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Institutional Arrangements
3.1    Gabinete Provincial do Piano (GPP . Overall responsibility for project implementation
resides with the Director of GPP, who reports directly to the Provincial Governor and, under the
system of "double subordination", to the Ministry of Planning in Luanda. In addition to its role as
chief planning office, GPP enjoys broad executive powers and is generally well regarded in the
Province. An important aspect of project preparation has been to obtain assurances from the Central
Government of adequate provincial autonomy for project implementation. At negotiations the
Government has furnished IDA with: (i) a Ministerial Decree signed by the Ministries of Planning and
Finance, empowering the Provincial Government of Benguela, represented by its Planning Office, GPP,
to act as project executing agency; and (ii) Implementation Agreements, acceptable to IDA, between
GPP and EPAB and between GPP and DPSC, for the implementation of the respective project
components. The draft documents were prepared and submitted to the Association during the appraisal
mission.
3.2    Emgresa Provincial de Aguas de Benguela (EPAB). EPAB is the provincial water
company, with a common Director, but separate operating personnel, for Benguela and Lobito, which
are, in effect, subsidiaries of the Provincial holding company. The present condition of the water
companies in both Lobito and Benguela reflects the uncertain mandate, lack of resources, and
deterioration of physical plant during the years since Independence. During project preparation IDA
and the local authorities have confirmed that the water companies are indeed in bad shape. Office and
technical facilities are inadequa-te; there is no master plan of water supply and distribution for the cities
or the province, and except for the proposed IDA supported project, there are no investment programs.
Human resources are inadequate in nearly all key positions, including financial management. The
financial organization of EPAB is analyzed in the following cihapter, Financial and Economic
Analysis.



15
3.3    The local authorities have been willing to address EPAB's shortcomings frankly and have
assured IDA they are ready to take the necessary steps to build efficient organizations. IDA strategy is
to begin as soon as possible the water and sewer tariff and reorganization studies to effect an in-depth
analysis of technical and administrative problems, as well as alternatives of operation and ownership.
The studies would develop and recommend a program of action, to be agreed upon at mid-term, during
the period when rehabilitation and construction take place. In addition, the project would finance
technical assistance to EPAB to reorganize the accounting system (see pam 4.2), and to operate and
maintain the water and sewer networks upon completion of rehabilitation work supervised by the
consulting engineer.
3.4    Direcao Provincial de Servicos Comunitarios (DPSC). DPSC's mandate covers a broad
spectrum of municipal services, including solid waste collection and disposal, urban road maintenance,
licensing and collection of fees for public market operations, cemeteries, parks, gardens, and sport
facilities. DPSC faces problems of inefficiency and reorganization similar to those of EPAB. The
Provincial Government is aware of DPSC's problems, and with budgetary support of the Central
Govermment has contracted long-term expatriate consultants to assist in the reorganization effort.
IDA's strategy is to support this effort with additional technical assistance, logistical and administrative
support, directed specifically to the relevant project components, i.e., solid waste management, and the
low income sanitation and revegetation programs, described in paras 2.17-2.22 above.
3.5    DPSC will implement the solid waste management and low income sanitation programs,
including the sanitary-environmental education component, in conjunction with the Diretoria Provincial
de Saude (DPS), the Provincial Directorate of Health. Technical assistance under the project would
include developing and coordinating the sanitary-environmental education component, one of the
principal tasks of the resident sanitation adviser, who will coordinate and train local staff in the
implementation of the program.
B.     Project Implementation Staff
3.6    GPP would have overall management responsibility for the project, including contract
management and coordination of the various components through the implementing agencies, EPAB and
DPSC. The Director of GPP would be the project manager, supported by a project technical
coordinator, a financial controller, and a procurement advisor, as key support staff, financed by the
prK,ect under the program of technical assistance outlined in paras 2.17-2.22 Institutional
Development above. The appointment of the key staff of GPP, including confirmation of the Director
as Project Manager, and employment of the project technical coordinator, the financial controller, and
the procurement advisor, on terms satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of gdi
Efftivenes (para 5.3). Tenrs of Reference of GPP Key Staff are included in Annex 12.
3.7    The project manager would be responsibie for coordinating and monitoring all managerial and
technical aspects of project implementation. His duties would include liaison of project activities with
central, provincial, and local government authorities; compliance with the provisions of the
Implementation Agreements, annual action programs, and implementation schedules for the respective
project components; supervision of procurement arrangements; timely contracting and overall
performance of the technical assistance and studies provided for in the project; ensuring and
maintaining appropriate counterpart staff during project implementation; prompt allocation of housing
and office space for project consultants; supervision of project financial accounts; and timely
compliance with the reporting and auditing obligations of the project.
3.8    The project technical coordinator, supported by appropriate local counterpart staff, would
assist the project manager in the supervision and monitoring of all work and study contracts under the
project; and jointly with the financial controller, would develop and maintain budgets and systems of



16
cost control, critical path, and physical and financial performance indicators for each project
component.
3.9    The financial controller, supported by appropriate local counterpart accounting staff, would
keep financial accounts for all project components; ensure appropriate compilation and maintenance of
project documentation and files; and prepare and maintain consolidated accounts of expenditure,
quarterly reports, annual financial plans and reports, and internal audits, in sufficient detail and format
satisfactory to IDA.
3.10   The procurement advisor would carry out, in close coordination with the project manager, the
technical coordinator, and the financial controller, all procurement arrangements for project
implementation, including packaging lots for consultants' services; purchase of vehicles, equipment,
and material, computer systems, hardware and software, printed material, office equipment and
supplies; and housing repair and acquisition of furniture and appliances to meet the housing needs of
long-term consultants, to be financed under the project.
3.11   In order to ensure timely project implementation a key objective of the project would be to
provide each of the three executing agencies with ample technical and logistical support as described in
Jntitutional Development (paras 2.17-2.22) above. The organization of the project is outlined in the
Project Coordination Arrangements Chart 3.1, and in the Action Plan set forth below.
Chart 3.1
Project Coordination Arrangements
C.    DAretor
b Other Depteb t nh G o      rocurement te, Thea t ech      nical    ro ormentatl
GPP        Control       Advisor         Coordination    Advisor
staffUwouldnexpediteiport cernooUnit
Superyisory
_ _ _ _ _ _ Consulting
_                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Engineer
|Accountin
Stafffl
|Tchrial            Technia|
C.     Action Plan
3.12   Water Rehabilitation. GPP will be responsible for contracting the major civil works through
ICB & LCB. Cost controls and rnanagement would be provided by the supervising engineering
consultants. The implementation schedule of the ICB civil works of water and sanitary sewage would
be coordinlated by the GPP project management team, headed by the technicai coordinator with the
assistance of the financial controller and procurement advisor, who, with the assistance of OPP local
staff would expedite port clearance of the many items of material and equipment that the contractor



17
must import in a timely manner. Detailed coordination of construction and cost control would be
provided by the supervisory engineering consultant.
3.13   The start-up in July 1992, in both cities, is scheduled three months after the contracts are
signed as shown in the attached Schedule of Works in Annex 5 Key Indicators and Schedule of
Works. The rehabilitation of the Catumbela wellfield and the eight wells in the Benguela wellfield
would start simultaneously. Well rehabilitation in Lobito and Benguela would be complete nine months
after start-up, along with eight of the twelve wells in Lobito and all six new wells in Benguela. Thus,
the increased supply could be delivered to the completed portions of the standpipes in both cities by
mid-1993.
3.14   The schedule for standpipes and washbasins is based on one work brigade installing one unit
per week. With six brigades ICB contractor would complete the 300 units in Lobito (in the
neighborhoods of Alto Liro, Bela Vista and Vila da Catumbela) in one year. The installation of the 63
mm and 75 mm distribution lines would be undertaken by different construction teams who would
coordinate their work to connect the lines as the standpipes and washbasins are completed. For
Benguela the 200 standpipes and washbasins would be installed by four work brigades in the same
twelve month period as in Lobito. Each standpipe will be equipped with a recessed water meter inside
a locked steel box, installed by the ICB contractor. The 300 water meters for commercial, industrial,
and apartment building users in Lobito, and a similar number in Benguela, will be installed, owned,
and maintained by EPAB.
3.15   For each of the 500 standpipe and washbasin facilities DPSC would organize groups of
approximately 150 families. The communities would participate in maintenance of the washbasins,
periodic cleaning of the sandtrap, and in tree planting. Various schemes for collecting water tariffs at
the standpipes were considered during project preparation. At negotiations agreement was reached on
the preferred method of organization, billing, and collection of water sold at the standpipes. EPAB
will franchise private individuals, similar to gas station concessionaires, who would resell water to
individual consumers at agreed prices and margins. EPAB would make periodic visits to ensure proper
maintenance and to read the water meter for purposes of billing and collection. This approach has been
used successfully in other projects in the region and would be tested in a Rilot program as part of the
water and sewer tariff and institutional reorganization studies described in para 2.24 and in Annex 9.
The interim water tariff would take into account cost recovery, affordability, and cross subsidy
considerations discussed in the following chapter, Financial and Economic Analysis (paras 4.4-4.7).
3.16   Sewer Rehabilitation. Construction of the sanitary sewers for both cities has been
coordinated to ensure that the gravity networks and pumping station are in place and connected to the
force mains and completed sanitary sewage lagoons before the full supply of water is turned on. This
is a necessary precaution to prevent sewage backup and overflow. Sewage management functions are
being transferred from DPSC to EPAB under the project. Operation and maintenance of the oxidation
ponds would also be the responsibility of EPAB; whereas management and usage of the treated effluent
would be controlled by DPSC.
3.17   For Lobito, the rehabilitation of the Compao gravity network will start simultaneously with the
start of the water supply works three months after contract signature. At the same time work on the
new gravity sewer networks and pumping station for the Commercial Zone and Caponte will start as
noted on the schedule. The work is scheduled for completion in one year to coincide with the
completion of the full water supply hook up. Two emergency power generators are provided at the key
pumping stations to eliminate sewage overflows in the networks.
3.18   For Bengiela, the task is easier since the city drains toward the beach. Only one pumping
station and short force main are required within the city center. The major portion of the network will
flow by gravity to the main pumping station on the south sides of the Vala dy Coringe, 2.70m below
the present grade. This main gravity sewer must be built before the concrete lining machine for the



18
channel reaches this location at the bridge to Baia Farta. The demolition of the bridge must Also be
coordinated and the bridge completed before the gravity main is installed. While these are simple
tasks, they require careful coordination.
3.19   Vala do Coringe Storm Drainage Channel. The six months construction schedule for the
Vala do Coringe Channel must be first coordinated with the rainy season which ends in April and
begins in October. If the Coringe Channel cannot start in May '92, due to delays in effectiveness, it
must be re-scheduled to May '93. This would not affect the sanitary sewer schedule, but would mean
that the people of Benguela would suffer another year with the Vala do Coringe's unsanitary condition.
3.20   The manpower requirement of each of the civil works components has been analyzed to ensure
that construction activity employs appropriate labor-intensive construction methods using small pre-st
or cast-in-place components. A careful accounting of employment generation would be maintained and
fully reported by the contractor and supervising engineer during project implementation. GPP would
assemble this information in quarterly employment reports as part of its normal reporting responsibility.
3.21   The project implementation schedule of major civil works is planned over a two-and-a-half-
year period with some of the storm drainage dams, latrine program, and lines of credit for building
materials extending to six years. The contract approval procedures of the major works have been
packaged to reduce processing time to the minimum. GPP and the project technical coordinator would
monitor the progress of each component and coordinate the overall project. A series of action plans
have been developed for the various components which would be updated for the mid-term review.
For each municipality work schedules would be overlaid to determine the criteria for implementation of
the project as follows:
Table 3.1
Sunmary Work Schedule
PHASE                                       DETAILED             EXECUTION
ENGINEERING & BID  OF WORKS
DOCUMENTS
E.lm
I      Water Supply-Rehab & Expansion       05/91 - 09/91         07/92 - 7/94
II     Sanitary Sewers                     05/91 - 09/91          07/92 - 7/94
III    Vala do Coringe Drainage Channel    05/91 - 09/91          05/92 - 12/92
IV     Storm Drainage Works                04/92 - 10/92          07/92 - 12/97
V      Latrine Program                     02/91 - 07/91         05/91 - 12/97
VI    Solid Waste Collection & Disposal    03/91 - 07/91         07/92 - 12/94
Municipal Services Support
3.22 Plans I & II, Water Supply & Sanitary Sewers, would be phased to ensure early delivery of
water to the first completed sections of standpipes and water networks in the two cities and to
coordinate the rehabilitation of the utility networks and installation with the surface and sub-surface
drainage works. Effectiveness is expected in March, 1992 and the completion date for these works
would be July 1994. The 24 month schedule for major civil works is considered realistic in view of
the urgent need for water supply and sanitary sewerage, the close attention paid to the packaging of the



19
project, and the combined management skills of GPP and the supervising engineers. Completion date
for the Storm Drainage Works (Plan IV) and the Latrine Program (Plan V) would be December 1997.
The completion of the project is scheduled for March 31, 1998, with the closing date Se-ptember 30,
1998. The project implementation period of approximately six years is comparable to that of a similar
larger project in Mozambique and seven years generally for urban projects supported by the Bank.
1.    Procurement
3.23   Contracts for works and goods valued greater than US$500,000 would be awarded under
procedures for International Cornpetitive Bidding (ICB), as set forth in Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans Rod IDA Credit, published by the Bank in May 1985. Contracts for works and
goods less than US$500,000 would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB), under
procedures satisfactory to the Association. Accordingly, contracts for the major civil works (US$27.92
million) would be awarded, after prequalification, on the basis of ICB. The works would be packaged
into two contracts including supply, installation and commission of a) water supply and distribution,
and b) sanitary sewerage and storm drainage. Contracts for lesser works such as repair of the
municipal vehicle maintenance shops and other offices, and construction of the small erosion-control
retention dams (aggregate value of about US$4.63 million) would be awarded th:ough Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB). as these are labor-intensive smaller contracts unlikely to attract foreign
bidders. These LCB contracts would, nevertheless, be open to foreign bidders, following local
procedures that are being revised with IDA's assistance (see para 3.24 below). Minor works, including
the fabrication of improved latrine slabs, sold at cost, and the revegetation program, scattered
throughout the project area and spread over time, would be carried out through force account by the
DPSC. The aggregate amount of works carried out under force account would not exceed US$S(.8
million.
3.24   Contracts for the acquisition of vehicles and equipment (US$ 4.56) for the solid waste
management and low income sanitation components would be awarded on the basis of ICB, in
accordance with Bank guidelines cited above. Other logistical support, including project management
vehicles, office and telecommunications equipment, furniture and supplies, with an aggregate value of
US$3. 11 million would be purchased in several lots (up to US$500,000 each) through LCB because of
the variety of goods and the need to have service representatives in the country, especially for
computers and office equipment. Finally, local construction materials and seedlings for revegetation,
with an aggre.gate value of US$2.22 million, would be purchased through LCB as defined in the
procurement guidelines, as these are locally available at competitive prices.
3.25 Consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency, dated August, 1981, for
technical assistance (US$6.91 million), detailed design and supervision (US$3.44 million), studies
(US$3.35 million) and training (US$1.2 million). Technical assistance would be provided to OPP, the
main implementing agency responsible for carrying out all procurement under the project, except the
force account works carried out by DPSC. GPP's procurement capacity would be strengthened by
employing an experienced procurement expert, a financial comptroller and a technical coordinator.
This team would also be responsible for training local counterpart staff throughout the life of the
project (see para 2.19).
3.26   Under the Economic Management Capacity Building project (CR 2274-ANG), the Borrower's
procurement regulations and procedures will be reviewed and streamlined, including the design of
standard bidding documents and contracts. For the purposes of the proposed project the Borrower has
agreed to apply the Bank's guidelines and procedures set forth in Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, May 1985. Local competitive bidding procedures would be reviewed by
the Bank prior to application; these will include local advertising, public opening of bids, clarity in
evaluation criteria, award to the lowest bidder, and non-exclusion of foreign bidders.



20
3.27    To encourage an early start up of project implementation, the following conditions have been
introduced in the project implementation schedule: a) completion of the draft bidding documents
satisfactory to the Association for the major civil works, prior to negotiations; and b) employment of
key technical assistance staff satisfactory to the Association as a condition of effectiveness (para 5.3).
3.28    During project supervision, all works contracts above a threshold of US$ 200,000 would be
subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process would cover about 95%  of total works
value procured through ICB and LCB ( 100% ICB and 70%  LCB). Goods contracts above US$
!                  100,000 would also be subject to prior review, covering about 80% of total value of goods financed by
i                  the Project. All consultant's contracts would also be subject to prior IDA review.
3.29    Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows: a) comprehensive quarterly
reports will be prepared by GPP, indicating i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
total project, including best estimates of physical and price contingencies; ii) revised timing of
procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award, and contract completion times.;
and, b) a completion report prepared by GPP within three months of the closing date.
3.30    Table 3.2 summarizes the procurement procedures to be applied to the various components.
Table 3.2
Procurement Arrangenents
(USS million)
Percent
of
Project Elements                  ICa      LCB     Other      KA      Totat    Totat
1 WORKS
a) Water Rehabilitation      12.96                                 12.96
(11.02)                               (11.02)    21X
t; Sewer & Storm Drainage   14.96                                  14.96
(12.07)                               (12.07)    23X
c) Retention Dams                       3.51                        3.51
(3.14)                      (3.14)      6X
cl Building Repair (1)                  1.12                         1.12
(1.00)                      (1.00)      2X
e) low Income Sanitation (2)                     0.79               0.79
(0.71)             (0.71)     1X
2 G(.0S
a  'thictes & Equipment       4.56      1.00                        5.56
(4.56)   (1.00)                       (5.56)    11X
b) S4aterials                           2.22                        2.22
(1.99)                      (1.99)      4X
c) Lo ,atical Support                   2.11                        2.11
(2.11)                      (2.11)      4X
3  CONSUL(ANTS
a) Tachnical Assistance                          6.91               6.91
(6.54)             (6.54)    122
b) Design & Supervision                          3.44               3.44
(3.44)             (3.44)     72
c) Studies                                       3.35               3.35
(3.17)             (3.17)     6X
4  TRAINING                                          1.20               1.20
(1.08)             (1.08)     2X
5  REFINANCING OF PPF                                         0.75      0.75
(0.75)   (0.75)      1X
TOTAL                       $32.47    $9.96   $15.70    $0.75   $58.88
($27.64)  ($9.25) ($14.94)   (0.75) ($52.58)   100X
54%      162       282       1X      1002
Notes:
(1) Repair of DPSC workshops and GPP, DPSC, and EPAB offices.
(2) Fabrication of improved latrine stabs and urban revegetation by DPSC force account.
(3) Figures in parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA and Co-Financing.
(4) Cost figures include contingencies.



21
E.      Disbursements
3.31    Disbutrsements under the IDA credit are proposed at the rate of 100% against eligible foreign
expenditures aJ 90% of total expenditures of selected categories. All disbursements would be net of
taxes and duties. Amounts to be disbursed by IDA are indicated in Table 3.3 Disbursement
Arrangements. Disbursements against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) would be made for contracts
for works, goods, and services valued at less than $20,000. Documentation in support of the SOEs
would be retained by the executing agencies for inspection by IDA's supervision missions.
Table 3.3
Disbursement Arrangements
(USS Miltion)
Percentage of
Amount         Expeditures
Category                                             Allocated       to be Financed
1 Works                                              S17.95
a)  Water Rehabilitation                    $7.07                  100X of Foreign
b)  Sewer & Storm Drainage Rehab             7.75                  100% of Foreign
c) Retention Dams                            2.03                  90X of Total
d)  Building Repair                          0.64                  90X of Total
e)  Low Income Sanitation                    0.46                  90X of Total
2 Goods                                               $6.21
a) Vehicles & Equipment                     $3.57                  100X of Foreign
b) Materials                                 1.28                  901 of Total
c) Logistical Support                        1.36                  100X of Total
3 Consultants                                         $9.40
a)  Technical Assistance                    $4.73                  100X of Foreign
b) Design & Supervision                      2.38                  100X of Foreign
c) Studies                                   2.29                  100X of Foreign
4 Training                                            $0.78          901 of Total
5 Refinancing of PPF                                  $0.75          Amount Due
6 Unatlocated                                        $10.50
Total                                          $45.58
3.32    In order to accelerate disbursements and project implementation, a SNecial Account would be
established in a commercial bank to serve all project components. In addition, the Government would
establish a Project Account in US dollars for counterpart funds. The Financial Controller in the
Provincial Planning Office would approve all payments from the Special Account and would be
responsible for record keeping, aggregation of documents, and reconciliation of bank statements as
required by IDA, and for preparation of applications for replenishment for signature by authorized
officials. Assurances on disbursement arrangements were obtained from the Government Ma
negotiations.
3.33    Conditions of Disbursement of specific components would be: a) confirmation of the
availability of SIDA and NORAD co-financing for the project; and b) proof of ownership or non-
existence of encumbrances of the lands occupied by the proposed new wellfields, the oxidation ponds,
and the pumping stations for the water supply and sanitary sewer civil works. The Closing Date for
the Credit is September 30, 1998.
P.      Project Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
3.34    GPP will maintain consolidated accounts in dollars and in kwanzas for the entire project.
Responsibility for detailed accounting for all provincial water and sewer works would be with the



22
EPAB, with separate aggregation for Lobito and Benguela. DPSC would maintain separate detailed
accounts in dollars and in kwanzas for the solid waste component, the storm drainage works, and the
latrine program.
3.35   At neeotiati  the Government provided assurances that audited financial statements for GPP,
EPAB, and DPSC, including operating statements, comparative balance sheets, and funds flow
statemente, acceptable to IDA, would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) would be included in the audit and specifically addressed in
the audit report. The studies budget includes US$200,000 to cover the costs of annual audits over the
life of the project (para 2.23).
3.36   In addition to their annual accounting and audit reporting responsibilities, the GPP would
prepare auarterly progress reports which shall include physical, financial, and employment budget
indicators for each component, showing actual and projected expenditures, disbursements by category,
and performance. These quarterly reports shall be the responsibility of the implementing agencies,
EPAB and DPSC, reporting to GPP, and of the project technical coordinator and financial controller,
who will compile the consolidated report. Quarterly reports would be due within one month of the
close of each quarter. GPP will also provide a project completion report in a format stipulated by IDA
within six months of the Closing Date of the Credit.
G.     Key Indicators
3.37   A detailed timetable and schedule of physical works for each of the major components of the
project is set forth in Annex 5 Implementation Plan Key Indicators and Schedule of Works. Other
monitoring criteria would include data on employment generation attributable to the project and basic
indicators of public health and sanitation developed by the project with the assistance of the low income
sanitation advisor (para 2.15 above) and the environmental advisor as outputs of the environmental
management and monitoring studies (paras 24-32 of Annex 1). In addition, the Project Implementation
Schedule sets forth target dates for important project milestones, including the contracting of
consultants, major works, and studies financed by the project, with expected completion and delivery
dates of interim and final reports.
H.    Mid-Tenn Review
3.38   During negotiations agreement was reached to hold a mid-term review approximately 18
months after the date of credit effectiveness. The purpose of the mid-term review is to assess progress
achieved in: i) project implementation based on the agreed key indicators for each component; ii)
reorganization of EPAB and implementation of economic water and sewer rates based on the findings
and recommendations of the water and sewer reorganization and tariff studies; iii) cost recovery of the
golid waste and improved latrines programs; iv) implementation of the environmental action plan, based
on the environmental studies; and, v) implementation of the land registration pilot program based on the
land registration studies. The rmd-term review would result in a revised implementation program,
including an action plan and timetable for: i) revision of water and sewer tariffs; ii) the institutional
reorganization of the water authority; and iii) application of cost recovery mechanisms for the project
components. The mid-term review would also result in a revised list of Key Indicators, including
criteria for monitoring the performance of EPAB and DPSC.



23
IV. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.    Empresa Provincial de Aguas de Benguela (EPAB)
4.1   OQraniation. During the Portuguese colonial regime the Water Service of Benguela was one
of the multiple Departments of the extinct Municipal Council (Camara Municipal) of Benguela. In
1976 the Provincial Water Central (Central Provincial de Aguas), the predecessor of EPAB, was
created as a dependency of the Ministry of Construction. In 1980 the Water Central was transferred to
the Secretary of State for Urbanism, Housing, and Waters (SEUHA), which administers state owned
housing property. In March 1990 operating control of the local water companies and water authorities
was transferred to the provincial governments by decision of the Council of Ministers. The intent of
this decision is to decentralize the operation of the local water companies; however, appropriate
corporate charters, by-laws, and regulations to ensure local autonomy are not yet in place. These and
other important issues would be addressed and clarified in the water and sewer reorganization an.; tariff
studies financed by the project, including the power to set tariffs, and questions of title, ownershlp, and
organizational structure. A logical structure would include a provincial holding company and operating
subsidiaries for the municipalities of Lobito, Benguela and oiher towns in the interior of the province.
4.2    Financial Accounting. Meaningful financial information is not available owing to weak
financial management and the absence of accrual accounting systems. Bookkeeping is essentially cash
accounting which is very deficient. There are no annual reports, no inventories, or depreciation, and
no funds flow statements. The income and expense statements include a mix of unreconciled current
and capital accounts. Charges from the sale of water are mixed with subsidies and grants from central
govemment, advances and sales of material to other provinces, sales of basic food stocks to employees,
and loan repayments of employees. Expense items include salaries and loans to employees,
expenditures for repair and for purchase of equipment. Furthermore, accounting treatment is
inconsistent from year to year making comparisons hazardous. Difficulties of financial analysis are
compounded by the foreign exchange valuation structure which may make translations into dollars quite
misleading. For example, EPAB Benguela received annual subsidies of NKz12.0 and NKzl5.1 million
in 1989 and 1990 for investments, worth US$400,000 and US$500,000 respectively at the then
prevailing official rate of Kz3O to the dollar. If valued at the unofficial market rate (NKz800 to the
dollar), similar kwanza amounts would yield only about US$15,000 and US$19,000. Not surprisingly,
there has been no attempt to consolidate the accounts of Lobito, Benguela, and the other municipalities
of the province. A priority of the technical assistance to EPAB will be the establishment of coherent
accrual accounting systems in Lobito and Benguela.
4.3    Financial Projections. The objective of the Financial Projections (Annex 7) is to determine
a range of rates from breakeven to an economic level of full cost recovery of the rehabilitated and
expanded water and sewer networks. The financial projections start from a number of key
assumptions: a) in the absence of balance sheets, funds flow and income statements only the
investments of the project are considered; in other words the project investment is viewed as zero-based
or standing alone; b) only incremental water is considered; c) production is assumed at 85% of
marginal capacity; d) consumption is taken at 75 % of marginal production; e) the annual cost of
operation and maintenance is assumed at 7.5% of initial investment, based on experience in other
countries. Thus a breakeven operating tariff for the rehabilitated and expanded water and sewer
networks works out in the projections to about US$0.28 per i3. Full cost recovery requires an
additional return on investment. A combined water and sewer tariff of US$0.44 would provide an
annual return on investment (ROI) of about 10%, sufficient to allow for depreciation and eventual
replacement of plant and equipment.



24
4.4    Affordability. These values seem high when compared to present or proposed tariffs of the
water company. They are, in fact, conservative when compared to the prevailing prices of vendor-
distributed water at free market rates, as shown in Annex 7 Financial Analysis (Page 3). A family of
six may p.irchase today only 60 liters per day (10 liters per person), or 1.8 m3/month to meet sub-
minimal household needs, paying NKz3000 per month at vendor rates, equivalent to US$3.75 at the
parallel rate of NKz800 per US$. After completion of the new standpipe program, the same family
would be able to purchase the design standard, 30 liters per person per day, or 5.4 m3 per month at the
suggested 'economic rate* of US$0.44 (NKz352) per m3, costing NKz1900 (US$2.37) - three times the
volume for 63 % of the price. Thus, despite the lack of reliable socio-economic survey data, there is
little doubt based on observed consumption patterns that suggested economic rates are affordable to
much of the population.
4.5    Residents in outlying areas and squatter settlements would not benefit directly from the
rehabilitated sewer network and, contrary to current practice, should pay less for water than residents
in the inner city. The water and sewer tariff and reorganization studies would make appropriate
allowance for these important differences in benefits in recommending an economically sound rate
structure incorporating generally accepted principles of equity and cross-subsidization.
B.     Cost Recovery
4.6    Cost recovery is a major issue addressed by the project. The problem is manifested in the low
tariff levels prevailing in the water sector, the absence of user charges for the sewer network; and the
extremely low rents paid by occupants of state-owned housing. The problem is exacerbated by the
overvalued, artificial exchange rate. The project proposes to address the problem of cost recovery
through cost accounting in both dollars and kwanzas, and through studies and agreements. The
maincenance of all project accounts in dollars will provide a useful benchmark for cost recovery
objectives.
4.7    Water and Sewer Tariffs. A proposal has been pending for over one year to double the
prtsent rate to NKz20 per m3. Preliminary indications from the financial projections, however, are that
the proposed rate increase, based on the official rate of exchange, is artificial and quite inadequate.
During negotiations a Water and Sewer Tariffs Action Plan was agreed, which is attached to the Terms
ot Reference. for the Water and Sewer Tariff and Reorganization Studies (Annex 9, Appendix 1).
The agreed underlying principle is that tariffs will be revised annually to reflect the true economic cost:
a) of the cxisting water networks; and b) of the rehabilitated and expanded water and sewer networks.
True economic costs are defined as full costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement, converted at
a realistic exchange rate. The exchange rate, in tum, is defined as a Reference Value taken as the
approximate average of the official and unofficial exchange rates (NK400 as of October 1991). Based
on these principles, a first interim water tariff of NK53 per m3 was agreed, which is 5.3 times the
present rate, to become effective January 1, 1992 upon ratification by the Provincial Price Commission
and the Provincial Government. The agreement calls for a second interim water tariff, at least equal to
80% of the breakeven cost at the prevailing Reference Value for the dollar, to become effective no later
than January 1, 1993, based on the findings of the studies financed under the credit (para 2.24).
Subsequent tariff reviews would be scheduled during the mid-term project review to take place
approximately 18 months after the date of credit effectiveness (para 3.38).
4.8    Solid Waste Collection and Disposal. Cost recovery would be achieved through the gradual
introduction of garbage collection fees and charges for emptying of septic tanks and for the disposal of
waste at the municipal garbage dumps. Beginning in January 1991, the DPSC began to charge a fee
for garbage collection in the served downtown areas. The nominal fee of 100 NKz is collected together
with apartment rental payments at the local branches of the Banco Popular de Angola. The technical
assistance for the solid waste management component will include a study to determine an appropriate
fee structure and methods of collection for the different levels and types of service provided, with the



25
objective of covering recurrent expenditures of the system. The proposed rate structure will be agreed
upon during the mid-term review.
4.9    Improved Latrines will be sold at cost plus a small charge for overheads to eligible
beneficiaries. Costs would be maintained in both Kwanzas and U.S. dollars. The mechanism for price
setting was agreed during negotiations.
C.     Private Sector Development
4.10   After fifteen years of a highly centralized economic system, Angola is beginning to move
towards a market economy. The provincial government has begun to divest some real estate and a
number of businesses, including small scale industries and fishing enterprises. The proposed project
will stimulate local private sector initiatives at various levels. The informal sector will play i
significant role in the low cost sanitation program, by transporting latrine slabs, and providing local
materials such as sand and gravel. Repairs of municipal buildings and offices, as well as the
construction of small erosion-control retention dams, will provide opportunities for small contractors.
Finally, the study for the reorganization of the w'ter company, EPAB, will consider a range of options
from management contracts to full privatization. After rehabilitation of the solid waste management
system a similar approach would be considered.
D.     Project Benefits
4.11   Major benefits of the project would be measured in terms of improved health of the
population, positive impacts on the physical and social environment and increased productivity of the
urban population. These are summarized as follows:
Realth and Environmental Benefits:
a) Expansion of the water supply will bring clean water for the first time to 80% of the
largely low income population, thus elimninating the single most important cause of disease and
directly contributing to a reduction in the critically high rates of infant mortality and morbidity;
b) Rehabilitation of the existing water distribution network of Lobito and Benguela will help
reduce water losses due to leakage, currently in excess of 50%;
c) Rehabilitation and extension of the sewage network will divert sewage from the city streets,
squatter settlements, wetlands, and bays to oxidation ponds where the treated efflut'nt can be
usefully recycled;
d) Storm water control will decrease peak flows, thus diminishing erosion and associated
flood hazards in the major natural and man made storm water channels; rehabilitation of the
Vala do Coringe will clean up one of Benguela's major sources of disease;
e) Solid waste management will improve sanitary conditions by providing daily waste
collection in most neighborhoods, thus eliminating the accumulation of waste throughout the
urban area;
f) The improved latrine program will introduce new technology to bring affordably priced
sanitation to 80% of the mostly low income population in the project area beyond the reach of
the sanitary sewer networks;
g) The sanitary-environmental education component will design, promote and implement
intensive education in public health and hygiene, control of water-borne diseases, and water-
soil conservation; and



26
h) Neighborhood revegetation will help improve the microclimate, soil fertility, erosion
control, and nutrition, thus contributing to the ecological, scenic, health and recreational
condition of the Lobito-Benguela conurbation.
Economic and Social Benet:
a) The entire population will benefit economically from access to affordable clean water and
improved sanitation, which are expected to reduce morbidity rates measurably, enabling more
of the population to work productively more of the time;
b) Women and children will be the biggest beneficiaries of ready access to urban water
inasmuch as they are primarily responsible for household water supplies and now spend
inordinate amounts of time and energy hauling water at great distances;
c) Abundant water in the low income settlements for the first time will permit important
increases in gardening and production of edible vegetables for home consumption thus helping
reduce the real cost of living of the urban poor; and
d) The project will create an estimated 2,800 man-years of employment from the construction
of the rehabilitated water and sewer networks, the storm drainage works, the solid waste
management program, and the low cost sanitation program, including the improved latrine,
sanitary-environmental education, and urban revegetation components.
Institutional Benefits:
The proposed project will help establish sound institutions responsible for water supply and
sewage and solid waste management. By establishing appropriate cost recovery mechanisms,
the project will enable these institutions to operate and maintain the rehabilitated infrastructure.
B.     Project Justification
4.12   The proposed project is justified on the health, environmental, social, economic, and
institutional benefits outlined above. The fact that over half a million people are presently without
water lends urgency to the justification. In addition the project would facilitate the development of the
larger Lobito Corridor Rehabilitation Program. Bank experience in similar cases shows that dealing
with the urban problems a posteriori can result in costly delays. No Economic Rate of Return has been
calculated owing to the difficulties in quantifying the major benefits of the project. While justified on
health and environmental concerns alone, the proposed project would facilitate the development of the
larger Lobito Corridor rebabilitation program. Major direct benefits of the project would be measured
in terms of improved health of the population, and in particular of women and children; aleviation of
poverty among the lowest income groups in the squatter settlements; increased productivity of the urban
population; positive impacts on the physical and social environment; and increased economic efficiency
of the cities of Lobito and Benguela. The project involves mostly rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure. Although the Government has not yet been able to formulate a public investment
program, the proposed investment is clearly a top priority in the reconstruction of Angola's war-
ravaged economy.
F.    ]Project Risks
4.13   The risks inherent in the proposed project ate due to institutional and technical weaknesses
which may cause delays in project implementation and lead to further environmental and economic
deterioration. There is a potential risk that the government may interfere in the administrative
autonomy of the provincial water company thereby hindering reorganization efforts and the cost



27
recovery objectives of the project. Unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, problems with
communications, and a potentially unstable political environment could lead to significant delays as
well. Delays in the overall urban rehabilitation effort could affect the rehabilitation of the Lobito
corridor, once it gets underway. Other minor risks involve the effectiveness of some of the
environmental rehabilitation efforts such as the revegetation component. Technical assistance, training,
and logistical support, initiated during project preparation, are intended to minimize these risks.
0.    Lssons Learned
4.14   Applying a lesson leamed during preparation, the Bofrower has agreed to delegate to the
Provincial Government full authority to execute the project and manage project funds, thus avoiding the
costly delays of central government involvement in project management. The proposed project is the
first investment project supported by IDA in Angola, and there are no implementation lessons yet to
draw from Bank experience. Nevertheless, Angola presents institutional and technical weaknesses that
make it comparable to other African countries, and in particular to the Portuguese-speaking nations that
share a common colonial heritage and gained Independence at the same time. One of the main sources
of lessons learned is Mozambique. In particular the Mozambique Urban Rehabilitation project
(Cr. MOZ 1949) which became effective in January, 1989, has components and methods of
implementation similar to those in the proposed project.
4.15   A number of these lessons have been applied to the project concept. The project has been
scaled down from its original design and now involves fewer components, fewer agencies, and more
realistic objectives and expectations. With regard to implementation, the use of an ad hoc Project
Implementation Unit has been abandoned in favor of strengthening existing institutional structures. In
Mozambique the role of the implementing agency has been successfully defined to that of contract
M.nnuement for civil works, supervision, and technical assistance. This management approach, rather
than attempting to perform implementation tasks directly, is being applied in the proposed project. In
order to avoid time-consuming contract review, the Borrower has agreed to use standard bidding
documents and Bank ICB contracts for works and technical assistance.
4.16   The technical design of two project components has also benefitted from the Mozambique
experience. Both the solid waste management and the improved latrine programs are designed after
successful, wel tested programs in Mozambique, and some early flaws have been avoided. The
improved latrine design, which uses no structural reinforcement other than its slightly conical shape,
was perfected in Mozambique. Through completion of over 1,000 slabs during project preparation,
IDA has effectively transferred a successful low cost technology.



28
V. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A.     Agreements Prior to Negotiations
5.1    Prior to negotiations the Government furnished IDA with:
a) a Joint Ministerial Decree, satisfactory to IDA, signed by the Ministries of Planning and
Finance, empowering the Provincial Government of Benguela, represented by its Planning
Office, GPP, to act as project executing agency (para 3.1);
b) Implementation Agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between GPP and EPAB and between
GPP and DPSC, for the implementation of the respective project components (para 3.1);
c) draft tender documents, satisfactory to IDA, for the water and sewer reorganization and
tariff study including terms of reference, draft contract, proposed short list of firms, and letters
of invitation, prepared by GPP and approved by the Ministries of Planning and Finance (para
2.24); and
d) draft bidding documents satisfactory to the Association for the major civil works, i.e., the
water, sewer, and storm drainage rehabilitation (para 3.27).
B.     Agreements Reached at Negotiations
5.2    During negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government on the following matters:
a) terms of reference and a timetable of employment of key project consultants (pam 2.17);
b) a Water and Sewer Tariffs Action Plan (para 4.7 and Annex 9, Appendix 1);
c) a mid-term review to be carried out 18 months after the date of credit effectiveness (para
3.38), to monitor progress achieved in:
i) project implementation based on the agreed key indicators for each component (parm
3.37);
ii) cost recovery of the water and sewer systems and of the solid waste and improved
latrine programs (paras 4.6 - 4.9);
iii) implementation of the environmental action plan, based on the environmental
studies (para 2.25); and,
iv) implementation of the land registration pilot program based on the land registration
studies (para 2.26).
d) in conjunction with the mid-term review, agreement on an implementation program,
including an action plan and timetable, for: i) revision of water and sewer tariffs; ii) the
institutional reorganization of the water authority based on the findings and recommendations
of the water and sewer reorganization and tariff studies (para 2.24); and iii) application of
cost recovery mechanisms for the project components (paras 4.6-4.9);
e) the establishment and maintenance of a Special Account in U.S. dollars for IDA funds and a
Project Account in U.S. dollars for Government counterpart funds (pam 3.32);



29
f) adoption of accounting and reporting procedures, satisfactory to IDA, including maintenance
of all project accounting in dollars and in kwanzas (para 3.34); the timely preparation and
submission of quarterly and annual financial reports (paras 3.35-3.36); and of external audits
within six months of the end of each fiscal year (pam 3.35); and
g) appointment of project counterpart staff and provision of adequate office space for the
technical, administrative and consulting staffs of GPP, EPAB, and DPSC; provision of
adequate transportation for all project consultants; and appropriate housing for long-term
consultants (para 2.20-2.21);
C.     Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
5.3    Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
a) appointment of the key staff of GPP, including confirmation of the Director as Project
Manager, and employment of the project technical coordinator, the financial controller, and the
procurement advisor, on terms satisfactory to the Association (paras 2.17 and 3.25); and
b) signature of the contract for the water and sewer institutional reorganization and tariff
studies on terms satisfactory to the Association (para 2.24); and
c) approval by the Provincial Government of Benguela of the Water and Sewer Tariffs Action
Plan and implementation of the first interim water tariff increase, agreed at negotiations (paras
4.7 and 5.2 (b) and Annex 9, Appendix 1).
D.    Conditions of Disbursement
5.4    Confirmation of the availability of SIDA and NORAD co-financing for the project would be a
condition of disbursement for specific items under the project (para 3.33).
5.5    Proof of ownership or non-existence of encumbrances of the following lands occupied by the
proposed new wellfields, the oxidation ponds, and the pumping stations would be a condition of
disbursement for the water supply and sanitary sewer civil works:
(i) the new wellfield, 150 by 1000 meters (15 hectares), on the west bank of the Catumbela
River, approximately three kilometers upstream from the existing well field (pam 2.4);
(ii) the new wellfield, 150 by 1000 meters (15 hectares), on the south bank of the Cavaco
River, approximately 1.3 kilometers upstream from the existing well field (parm 2.5);
(iii) sanitary sewer pumping stations located in: (1) the Lobito Commercial Zone; (2)
Caponte; (3) the Benguela central area; and (4) adjacent to the Coringe Channel, as located on
the consultant's drawings (paras 2.6-2.8); and
(iv) sanitary sewage oxidation ponds of four hectares each for the Lobito lagoon, located on
the waste land approximately two kilometers south of the Bairro Cabata, and the Beaguela
lagoon, located approximately two kilometers southwest of the airport (paras 2.6 and 2.7).
E.     Recommendation
5.5    On the basis of the above actions, conditions, and agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$45.58 million.



TABLE OF ANNEXES
PROJECT-RELATED
1 Preliminary Environmental Assessment
2 Water, Sewer, and Storm Drainage Rehabilitation
3 Low Income Sanitation
4 Solid Waste Management
5 Implementation Plan and Key Indicators
6 Detailed Project Costs
7 Financial Analysis
8 Geographical Information System
TERMS OF REFERENCE
9 Water and Sewer Tariff and Institutional Reorganization Study
10 Environmental Management and Monitoring Study
11 Land Registration Study
12 GPP Key Staff
BACKGROUND
13 Selected Docwments Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD No. 23181 Angola - Project Location Map
IBRD No. 23182 Lobito Benguela  Project Component Map



AnnxI
Page I of 18
LOBITO-BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
THE LOBITO-BENGUELA CONURBATION
PRELIMINARY ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.     This annex contains a brief environmental analysis of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation (LBC).
It provides a first understanding of the LBC's natural environment and its interaction with the social,
technological and economic conditions of the region; identifies the features and characteristics of the
Conurbation leading to or undergoing environmental degradation, and the possible causes of such
degradation; and outlines the potential environmental impact of planned or proposed projects.
2.     The data available for the area is limited and the existing socio-enviromnental interactions are
complex. Therefore, this report introduces the issues as a first step for further action. The information
outlined below is restricted to identifying most immediate issues, and raising questions about the needs
and potentials of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation in relation to the present Project. The information
reviewed provides a minimum base for identifying the need for specific environmental impact
statements, and for establishing the data necessary for ecologically based planning and management
within the Conurbation. Specific components and actions necessary to reverse environmental
degradation and prevent or mitigate further negative impacts in the project area are identified, and
monitoring of project components is proposed to guarantee proper attention to potential or unforeseen
negative impacts. The analysis will be complemented by the environmental studies component of the
Project, and followed by preparation of a medium-term environmental action plan.
3.     The environmental issues in the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation reflect conditions within and
beyond its urban limits and need to be considered within the context of a larger region. These
conditions result largely from lack of infrastructre and basic services, and the destabilizing effects of
the war, which have caused massive in-migration into the area. The resulting environmental
degradation affects land, water, and human resources beyond the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation.
I.    REGIONAL SETTING
4.     The Benguela Province. The Lobito-Benguela Conurbation is located on the coast of the
Benguela Province, on the Southwest of Angola. With a territory of 32,927 kn2, the Province holds
around 1.2 million inhabitants, some of the higher population densities in the country, and Angola's
second most important industrial center. The Province's major economic activities are agriculture,
fisheries, industry, and port and railroad tansport, all concentrated within the Lobito-Benguela
Conurbation and Baia Farta, about 23 km south of Benguela. At present, these activities are
significandy below potential levels as a result of both difficulties following independence and the war.
Nonetheless, they continue to play a major role in the development of the Angolan economy. The
Benguela Province's industrial development is responsible for approximately 35% of the country's
industrial complex. Fish catch accounts for roughly 40% of the Angolan total catch. The Province
provides sonm  of the major export agriculturd products, and raw material for the Lobito-Benguela
1



Annal
Page 2 of 18
Conurbation's agro-industries. 'rotal agriculturl production is difficult to assess since production,
except for state-owned agriculture, is largely in the subsistence sector, and surplus is traded in the
parallel market, for which statistics are not available.
S.     The Benguela Province las three climatic areas varying from desert to humid tropical, with an
average of 230 C and a rainfall ranging from 100-1000 mm/yr. About half the Province is identified as
inappropriate for agriculture due to poor soils; only 1/10 of it presents good agricultural potential.
Patches of alluvial soils, however, are spread throughout the poor soils region allowing localized high
value agricultural development. The coastal plain holds the Province's best agricultural soils (calcareos
pardos and arildicos pardos), and the two largest patches of alluvial deposits. The Benguela Province
has two river basins, the Catumbela and Coporolo, with a total catchment area of 28,010 km2. The
surface water potential of both rivers is low due to the watersheds' high rates of soil absorption and
high evaporation (1300-1500 mm), and low precipitation. The water table is generally 5 metrs deep.
6.     The Province's flora and fauna are diverse, albeit poorly managed. The vegetation varies on
an eastward axis from the coastal plain, changing from steppes to forests, open forests, and savannas
nixed with shrubs. The rate of regeneration for the natural forests where wood has an economic
importau-e is reported at 846 m31yr, and the rate of sustainable exploitation at 750 m3/yr. Current
wood demand largely exceeds supply, and the Province's deficit is estimated at 45,390 m3/yr. The rate
of deforestation is high due to clearings for cash crop cultivation, use of wood as fuel and construction
material, and war activities. The area currently cut specifically for wood exploitation adds to 700
ba/yr. Reforestation is limited and the only plantations somewhat managed are those belonging to the
paper industry. These plantations are generally of exotic species, mostly eucalyptus spp. and pints
spp. The Benguela railroad owns the country's largest eucalyptus planttion. The Province is tich in
land and aquatic fauna. TLe meeting of the cold and warm sea currents of Benguela and Agulhas
provide optimum conditions for sardine and horse mackerel, Angola's main commercial species.
Tropical species predominate off the coast of the Province, which is rich in fish, as well as mollusks
and cretaceans. Coastal wetlands provide habitat and resting areas for land and aquatic species,
especially birds and fish. Hunting as currently practiced has a certain economic importance within the
Province, and is considered a major potential attraction in the development of a tourist industry. The
Province has two nature reserves (Chimolavera and Buffalo) about 45 km from Benguela. The
Bonguela Province's wildlife and tourist potential, and coastal and marine resources remain largely
untapped. On going proposais recommend implementation of a wetland reserve in the Lobito coast,
and rehabilitation of the Chimolavera Reserve.
7. The infrastructure and the economic and socio-cultural framework of the Benguela Provincoe is
damaged partly as a result of the war. Its coastal area, however, is relatively secure which accounts in
part for the currently high population rates and the Province's high participation in the country's
agicultural and industral performance.
m.    THE LOBITO-BENGUELA CONURBATION
8.     Physical  d Climatic Setting. The Lobito-Bnguela Conurbation lies on the northwest cosal
plains of the Benguola Province. It has a tropical, dry, semi-desert climate, with a precipitation of
100D-300 mm/yr. The rainfall is distributed in a six month season rnning from October to April, and
often consists of intense storms. lTe average evaporation rate is 1300 mm/yr. The soils throughout
the Conurhation are alluvial deposits on quaternary bedrock. In the surrounding region, the soils arm
mostly calcakos pardos and aridicos pardos of cretaceous and tertiary formation. The native
2



Ana@xU
Page 3 of 18
vegetation isformacao de estepes (steppes). Two major rivers, the Catumbela and Cavaco, provide the
Conurbation with rich estuary ecosystems. On the alluvial depressions of the Catumbela and Cavaco
rivers, the we er table is at 0.5-4 meters. The chemical composition of well water is that of naturally
potable water.
9.     Lobito and lBenguela are connected by a railroad and a parallel paved road cutting southward
through the coastal plain. The Lobito-Benguela Conurbation is limited by the Atlantic ocean on the
west and a escarpment on the east, and presents the most fertile land of thA Benguela Province. The
Conurbation's coastal plain is currently cultivated, the main crop being sugar cane. Lobito and
Catumbela are located just beyond the border of the coastal plain and the central plateau.
10.    Ih LUrban Setting. The urban areas of Lobito and Benguela are 33 km apart. There is
however an overlap of the current land use and environental conditions of both cities and the region
connecting them. The area linking Lobito to Benguela is presently taken by almost continuous
spontaneous settlements; only Damba Maria and Catumbela are planned towns. The 1990 population of
the Conurbation is estimated at around 800,000 p.ople, over half the total for the Benguela Province
and roughly 89% of Angola's total population. The LBC is located in the Province's highest density
area, which reached 95-111 people/km2 by 1989, and is the major determinant of the urban
infrastructure of the Benguela Province.
11.    The spatial pattem of the LBC results from insecure conditions of the rural areas rather than
from opportunities provided by the urban setting. The Angolan state of war has taken a toll on the
Province's natural and human resources, setting forth migration out of the inland agricultural areas.
The Lobito-Benguela region provide one of the few pockets in the country with relatively stable
economic activities and safety. This has led to a rapid increase in the Conurbation's population and
resulted in overburdening the area's already meager infrastructure. Most of the population expansion
occurred in squatter areas with no basic infrastructure. Urbanization of the incoming population is
restricted to urban clusters with no access to agricultural land. The massive presence of urban-
unskilled war immigrants complicates planning and policy making for the area's development. There is
no local consensus on whether the migrant population will return to agricultural land following
establishment of peace. The most common assumption seems to be that the majority will return, but
part of the younger generation may remain in the cities.
12.    The Coastal-Urban Context. Benguela is the center for the Province's administration and has
one of Angola's main airports. Lobito provides a transportation network combitiing a coastal outlet
directly connected to the east-west railroad axis, which links Lobito and Zaire; it is a natural port and a
major export outlet. It is believed locally that Lobito's privileged natural characteristics, complemented
by its connection to the TransAfrican Pathway, the Benguela railroad, and the new Catumbela airport
six kilometers south of Lobito will lend it regional and intemational importance. These charderistcs
of the Conurbation at the same time provide a base for the region's economic development, and set the
framework for degradation of its coastal zone and marine resources.
13.    Lobito: The city of Lobito has a population of approximately 415,000 people, while the
Municipality of Lobito reaches 545,700 people (See Figure 1). Only about 1/5 of this population lives
in the former Portuguese city area, and the major neighborhoods are the Restinga, Compao, Caponto
and Bela Vista. The rest of the population inhabits mostly spontaneous settlements (musseqtu) on the
hill slopes beyond the city limits, above the port and towards Catumbela, around Bela Vista, and on the
plateau Alto Liro. Lobito is characterized by the NE hills, the SW plains and the Peninsula do Lobito
3



Annex 1
Page 4 of 18
(Restinga), five kilometers long and
200-300 meters wide. The city's
environment is complemented by the                       Mousld.o do Lito
bay, about 1-2 km wide and 35 ms
deep, the coastal wetlands and salt      Sede (Lobito   Sed                    410.000
ponds. The peninsula provides a                         Jomb*                     326
natural breakwater to the port and holds               Hlan  Noun                4,600
one of the major residential areas, with                Hot" PrA_
colonial buildings of two and three
Cauumbcla      Vila Caum               98,21
stories. Lobito holds the largest                       Siopio AucareIo           931
industrial development within the LBC.                  Lanlo                     569
Angola's fishing industry is partly based                                                - -
in Lobito, Benguela and Baia Farta.      Biopio         Biopio                   3,90     -
Estimates for Lobito's annual population
Canjala        C4jala                   5$22
growth vary from 7% to 10%.                             C..nd                     986
-   Sat lnon                2,417----
14.    Benguela: Benguela has about
300,000 inhabitants. The city has a      EgPo Pa        Egit Pf i
multi-store central core concentrated
between the railroad station and the sea,               Priat dehinl              322C.-
and houxses about 60,000 people. The                    27 "MOwr                  328
central core is surrounded by one and
two-floor planned residential areas and  Toal Population                       5455729
spontaneous settlements. The             Source: ConaaadodoLobito, Lobito, Jasuaz i991.
Municipality of Benguela is formed of
-aver 54 bairros (neighborhoods). Tie
over 4 barros(neigborhods) TFe 1    Population of tbo Lobito Municipality.
industrial area of Benguela lies mostly
between the Cavaco river, the railroad
and the Benguela-Lobito road. Most fish processing industries are along the coast. Benguela enjoys
no natural harbor as such; its roadstead is used chiefly for fishing boats, and the city has Angola's
second largest fleet of artisanal fishing boats. Benguela's annual growth is roughly 7 %.
15.    The housing stock of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation is made up of mostly adobe. Thatched
roofs are rare, and most older constructions have roof tile. These original materials are being replaced
by cement and roof sheets, either corrugated asbestos-cement or tin sheets. The replacement results
from the current inaccessibility to wood supplies for roof structuring, lack of roofing leaves and grass,
lower prices of the new roofing sheets, and a belief that adobe is both of inferior quality to cement and
an inferior technique. The roofing cement-asbestos and metal sheets have raised dissatisfaction due to
microcimatic discomfort and a perceived increase in health problems affecting young children. A
number of old adobe buildings within the cities are dilapidated or near collapse, threatening the region's
colonial architectural heritage.
16.    Industry in Lobito-Benguela is largely agro-industry, responsible for 29 % of the Province's
labor. Industrial activities are often located next to the water on the coast or the river edge. The major
fish-packing industries are in Baia Farta. Along the coast, from Benguela to the Namibe desert, there
are several small fishing communities and a few former Portuguese tourist developments.
4



Anex 1
Page 5 of 18
17.    The Lobito-Benguela Conurbation suffers from a general lack of infrastructure and basic
services, particularly of sanitation, water, low cost energy, and waste management. The LBC also
lacks the institutional capability, technical skills and financial ability necessary towards the
environmental recovery, planning, implementation and management of its coastal zone resources.
IV.    MAJOR ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
18.    Environmental degradation resulting from man's activities within the Lobito-Benguela
Conurbation is manifested both within and beyond the Conurbation's limits. Water and land resources
are affected, in turn degrading human health and potential economic resources. Negative impacts
include coastal, surface and groundwater degradation; soil erosion; changes in aquatic ecosystems; and
desertification.l/ Lack of adequate infrastructure and services, and the poverty conditions of the war
refugees are major contributors to the current environmental degradation. This degradation, followed
by depletion of usable resources --particularly contamination of water and food sources-- increases the
vulnerability of the poor further stressing the scant socio-economic conditions of the Conurbation.
Following is a brief discussion on the status of some of the major current problems.
Water Resources
19.    The impact of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation on the region's water resources currently
relates to decrease in water quality, rather than quantity. This results from lack of adequate water
supply for both urban use and irrigation. Nonetheless, the lack of water conservation policies, the state
of degradation of the water distribution network, and the lack of water-saving techniques and devices,
have lead to high water waste. Water losses in the existing water distribution system of both cities is
conservatively estimated at 50%. Further unaccounted losses occur in the local open-surface daylight
irrigation system which is inefficient in use and conservation of water. Washing streets to keep down
the dust is a common sight where water is available. It is crucial that increases in water supply be
preceded by an awareness program to avoid escalation of water waste.
20.    Water Supply and Demand. Estimates of supply and demand within the Conurbation are
complicated by lack of data, as well as by uncertainties concerning the future of the region's refugee
population. Deterioration of the existing water supply systems and monitoring equipment results in that
there are no actual estimates of the amount of either surface or groundwater withdrawn for urban use.
Estimates of consumption are at best shaky.
21.    Considering current population trends, estimates of water demand for the Lobito-Benguela
Conurbation by 1995 add to 51,500 m3/day. Lobito's pumping capacity is about 7,000 m3/day, and
Benguela's roughly 10,000 m3/day. The Water and Sewerage project would increase pumping capacity
to 24,000 m3/day each for Lobito and Benguela. This will supply the population of the urban core of
both cities with in-house piped water, and provide standpipes for most of the Conurbation's settlements
at a maximum distance of 200ms for each and all residences. The rural settlements of Damba Maria
and Praia Bonita, in the Municipio of Lobito, will not be serviced by the project. Project estimates
indicate that both short and medium-tern water demand (up to the year 2020) within the Lobito-
Benguela Conurbation can be met through exploitation of the region's groundwater resources. Water
I/     Information on desertification around the project ares is not available. lTis report deals only with the causes of
existing desertification (man-induced desentiztion) as identified duing proect prepartion, and by the local
commnuities and authorties.
5



Annex I
Page 6 of 18
losses will be minimized and monitored in the proposed systems. Overall water conservation, however
will depend on both policy development and irmplementation, and user awareness (See par. 19).
22.    Lone-Term Water Supplv and Demand. Plans to increase water supply for the region include
the construction of a medium-size dan on the Catumbela river and a series of small dams upstream for
cattle and agricultural use. There are to date no official proposals or feasibility studies for the above
plans; small dams and ponds for agricultural and cattle use are currently built on an ad hoc individual
basis. It is recommended that an environmental and resources analysis should be incorporated at the
first stage of the above plans, since they may negatively affect downstream water quality and quantity,
eventually affecting the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation and its coastal resources. These projects -as well
as future projects for industrial, residential and agricultual water use- should be analyzed for their
possible negative impact on the water .,sources of the region.
Water Oualitv. Sanitation and Public Health
23.    The majority of the Conurbation's population inhabits squatter areas lacldng water supply and
latrines. The few existing public standpipes (cwfarizes) have intermittent or no water, the few
communal latrines are out of service, and the local government does not have enough trucks to provide
water delivery on a regular basis. It is estimated that Benguela produces 60 tons of solid waste/day,
and Lobito-Catumbela 90 tons/day. Both cities lack the equipment and financing to provide for waste
collection, so most of the solid waste accumulates in the streets. The portion collected is dumped in
open sites (lixeiras) which are inappropriately located, close to residential areas, water sources and
environmentally sensitive areas. Waste collected from septic tanks is dumped on abandoned
agricultural sites belonging to the sugar cane plantation in Lobito, and in the Benguela lUxera.
24.    Most settlements between Lobito and Catumbela are relatively clean, as consumption is very
limited and household waste is usually burnt or buried either in common piles or near the houses.
Household, commercial, and industrial waste within the cities are all combined. Where available,
industrial garbage collection and disposal is inappropriate and further exposes workers and the public to
contamination.
25.    Fecal matter, frequently disposed of with the garbage, is present throughout Lobito's and
Benguela' streets exacerbating health problems. Wastewater drips from broken sewage and water pipes
in multi-store buildings, and sewage seeps onto the cities' streets and sidewalks, providing play ares
for children. Existing sewage and drainage channels are often open, and Lobito's major drainag
channels are clogged by trash and silt. Faeces are found next to and inside irrigation and drainage
channels throughout the Lobito-Benguela road. In unpaved settlements, literal accumulation of faeces
clearly indicates production has long surpassed the soils capacity to recycle organic waste. Breeding
sites for mosquitoes and rats abound, closing a cycle of environmental contamination and disoase.
26.    These conditions pose furter health hazard in areas subject to flooding during the rain season,
and are complicated by the regular use of waste water by the population in areas lacling watr supply.
In Lobito, water from drainage channels and stagnant pools is used for household cores especially in
Alto Liro, Bela Vista and Consta. Wells dug next to and even inside the sewage/storm water outlet
Vala do Coringe provide water to neighboring population; and the irrigation-dainage channel parallel
to the Lobito-Benguela road provides a major source of water for washing and bathing for nearby
populations. Sewage and storm water are used to prepare adobe blocks.
6



Annex
Page 7 of 18
27.     The combined lack of sanitation and adequate water and food increases vulnerability to
diseases spread by air, contaminated water and faeces. Lack of water leads to inadequate hygiene
fostering infections. Use of contaminated water for washing or cleaning hands and food related utensils
lead to increased risks of typhoid, cholera, diarrhoea and hepatitis. Stagnant water provides habitat for
mosquito,s increasing incidence of malaria. Infectious diseases are rampant, and five out of the eight
most reported diseases in the Province are water related. Table I lists major diseases in the Benguela
Prvince, their relationship to water supply and quality, their rank in the Province's mortality and
morbidity rates for 1989, and Angola's infant and child motality rates. Cholera and typhoid often
reach epidemic proportions. Diarrhoea is a major cause of malnutrition, which in turn increases
vulnerability to diarrhoea. Diarrhoea, malaria and mralnutrition are among the six major causes of
infnt and child deaths in Angola. The 1990 morbidity ates for the municiplos of Benguela, Lobito
and Baia Farta are 59.2%, 18.1% and 45.4% respectively. Mortality for the saue period is 6.6/1000,
1.3/1000, and 4.5/1000 respectively. Table II ranks the major causes of morbidity and mortality for
diseaes in the three municipios and the Benguela Province in 1990. The actual figures may be more
alarming, considering that existing statistics do not estimate unreported cases.
Table 1: Maior Diseases of the Benruela Province
DISEASE                  WATER                       1989 RATES
polluted  inad.   inapprop.       most.    morb.
supply  storap
typhoid           x               x                 12
cholera           x       x                         6        8
diarrhoea         x       x                         1        2
hepatiis          x                                 8       6
bilhardizia       x                                          4
nularia                           x                 2        1
infan                                               16911000
child                                               325/1000
Sources: Adapted from WB/UNDP (1989) in Campos and Ramos, 1990. 4
Stuwaco da Saude er. Angola'. Draft. ps. 40, 41/Tab. 5-2, 424Tab. 5-3.
Table H: Rankinz of Maior Diseases in the Benmela Province for 1990
diseas           Lobito   Benguela Bais Farta       Benpuela Prvince
* .. e   *.   a **                a a
diarrhoea        1 2      1 2    1 2                12
malaria          3 1      2  1    3  1              31
cholera          5 S    4 5    4 7                  5  8
hepatitis        7 7    7 4    6 6                  7  6
bilhardizia         6     10 10      5              11 4
typhoid          10 16   1118                       12 17
m nortality rate                                    ** morbidity rate
Source: lffonnacao Anuai, 1990. Quadros no. 3 a 4. Delegacao Provinial da
Saude, Benguela, 1990.
7



Annex-1
Page 8 of 18
28.   'The situation is worse where settlements are concentrated. However, the consequences of this
environmental degradation reaches beyond the urban-corridor limits. The resulting diseases spread
throughout the countryside through direct and indirect means, and the conditions described lead to
contamination of coastal, surface and groundwater affecting existing and potential water supply and
water related activities. Bacterial contamination of groundwater poses especial problems in the lower
area of Lobito, where the water table is high; groundwater from the well field of Catumbela is
contaminated from periodic flooding of the adjacent river. Surface water contamination affects daily
activities such as washing and bathing. At major risk are those in direct contact with the river,
irrigation water and irrigation canals. Children provide the highest risk group due to their constant
exposure to water through either playing or carrying on household tasks, and their higher vulnerability
to diseases.
29.    The industrial complex of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation is formed by heavy, medium,
light, and a number of cottage industries. No records are available for either water or air pollution due
to industrial activities within the LBC, and it is generally reported that the existing industries manage
their own wastes. Lobito employs about 30,000 industrial workers. Benguela's industrial development
includes 262 light and 26 heavy industries; and '8 fish and derivatives, 24 food processing, and 24
construction industries, employing about 25,000 people.
30.    Most industries are operating below capacity, and pollution is thus held relatively low.
However, the existing industries have high polluting potential indoors as well as outdoors. Water
pollution poses a threat, along with human exposure to fumes and wastes. The most direct
environmental impacts of the existing industries result from their production of liquid and solid wastes,
and the consequent pollution of the area's water resources. Their effluent typically include high BODs
(biological oxygen demand), SS (suspended solid contents), organic matter (which results in high BOD
and SS), organic wastes (highly putrescent and with high bacterial population), relatively high pH, and
toxic chemicals. Some industries regularly dispose of waste and wastewater into the streets or
neighboring rivers. Africatextil (textiles) releases wastewater directly into the Cavaco river; children
are seen playing in blackwater streams in the surroundings of Embalagens D'Angola (packaging) and
other smaller industries. Changes in wind patterns often lead dust from Lupral (cement) to the
residential area of Morro da Quileva.
Coasta Resources
31.    The Lobito-Benguela Conurbation's coastal resources are affected by water pollution and lack
of coastal zone management. Wetlands, bays and estuaries are degraded, with a consequent decline in
the products and functions of these systems. Lobito's coast is lined with salt ponds and marshes.
Shallow depressions along the north side of the bay provide a natural area for salt extraction. The
coasta wedands play a dual role in maintaining the coastal zone. First, they support aquatic and semi-
aquatic species at different levels of the food-chain, and provide habitat for economically and
aesthetically important species. Second, they provide storm protection for inland areas. Aside from
their importance in maining such goods and services, coastal wetlands as well as bays provide
major potential for recreation and tourist development. The salines are exploited by fishermen's
families, providing direct (salt) and indirect (salted/dried fish) income especially to the Alto Liro's
population. About 56% of the fish consumed and 24% of fish landing in Angola is salted/dried
exclusively by hand and mostly by women. This labor intensive operation provides a long-lasting, easy
storage and light weight product ideal for a domestic market in search of increasing protein availability,
and Lobito has the only salt refining factory in the country. Present production is 4,000 tons, with
potec ial for greatly increasing, considering the instaled capacity of 80,000 tons.
8



Annex 1
Page 9 of 18
32.    Lobito's wetlands, however, are heavily polluted. Few patches of mangroves are left, between
Conata and Compao. The wetlands are used for dumping wastes and are further contaminated by urban
and storm water runoff mixed with sewage. The salt flats are degraded due to waste pollution and lack
of maintenance. There is a proposal that the wetlands housing the pink flamingos become a protected
area; other wetlands however are considered to interfere with port maintenance and urban expansion,
and are supposed to be filled; similarly, the salt flats are seen as hindering urban order. Lacking a
working sewerage network, some of residents of the Compao are installing their own private sewage
outlets into the lagoons. Lobito's bay is polluted by sewage and waste from surrounding residential
areas, untreated liquid and solid waste from industries located at the edge of the bay, and untreated
waste and oil leaks from the ships. Faeces, garbage and trash mixes in with the sand and water at the
bay's beaches.
33.    The rich tropical waters of the Benguela coast provide Angola with one of its major fishing
territories, and the base for two of the Conurbation's most promising economic activities, fisheries and
its related industry. The Benguela Province owns the second largest fleet of artisanal fishing boats, and
the country's only sNlt refining factory. Fish consumption in the coastal provinces of Angola is 44.5
kg/capita; the national average is 21 kg/capita. Domestic consumption is expected to reach 23.2
kg/capita by 1995. Consumption at Angola's hinterlands -currently at a low of 2.7 kg/capita due to
the war- should increase following improved security and food distribution, further strengthening the
fisheries sector. This economic importance is complemented by the fact that fish provides 40% of the
animal protein consumed by the Angolan population, and provides the basic -and often the only- food
source for the poor along the coast. Fisheries are recognized as one of the major resources for
potential development in the Benguela Province. Existing data show official fish landings in Benguela
add to 31.4% of the national total. It is estimated that current local catch will more than double by the
year 2000.
34.    Demand for high quality species provided by artisanal and coastal fishing is increasing rapidly.
This has led the Angolan government to adopt a strategy towards increased support for artisanal and
coastal fisheries, which are especially important in generating employment for the local population.
Artisanal fishing is important especially in Benguela. However, this promising economic activity as
well as all related industrial development could be threatened by pollution of the Benguela Province's
coastal waters. Experience from other countries show localized pollution due to urban runoff and
sewage, wetlands pollution, and coastal erosion affects coastal fishing resources through changes in
habitat and food chain; and regular use of ports for oil transporting increases the potential for coastal
water pollution due to oil leaks and waste. Demersal species and crustaceans, of major importance to
artisanal fishing, are especially vulnerable to water pollution.2/ Contamination of shellfish can lead
to health hazards, posing special problems in the presence of cholera. Studies on the status of Angola's
coastal fisheries are limited, and information on catch declines are limited to the effects of over-fishing.
Fishermen throughout the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation and Baia Farta, however, report steady decline
in fish catch along the coast. Further threats to the Province's coastal water resources result from
erosion of the Benguela coast, above Lobito, and especially around the city of Benguela.
Land Resouxrces
35.    Degradation of land resouces within the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation involves localized
degradation resulting from urban sprawl, as well as from lack of natural resources management at the
21     Denmeral species live close to the seabed, and ae abundant in the shallow waters of the coast.
9



Annex 1
Page 10 of 18
local and national levels. This involves degradation of agricultural and urban land, forests and living
resources, and desertification.
36.    Agricultural Land. The poor agricultural potential of most of the Benguela Province naturally
increases the agricultural value of the Province's patches of alluvial land. The Lobito-Benguela
Conurbation, however, is located on the Province's largest stretch of alluvial land. This siting has
directly affected the Province's potential agricultural development by diverting prime agricultural land
into urban use. Agricultural land within the LBC is increasingly allocated to urban uses. Erosion of
the hillsides bordering farmland negatively affects agricultural performance. The Conurbation's
agricultural land is further degraded through high rates of soil erosion resulting from upstream
deforestation and a generalized lack of soil management. Relatively large scale deforestation for
cultivation of land in the headwaters of the Caimbambo directly affects land and water quality in the
Cavaco river basin.
37.    Urban Land. In Lobito, the hiUsides and escarpments of Alto Liro and Bela Vista are seriously
eroded, threatening part of the existing housing. In Bela Vista, squatter houses are built inside the
major storm water channel, further carving the channel's heavily eroded sides. Streets and paths in
settlements throughout the escarpment area from Lobito to Benguela are rapidly eroding away. In
some areas, carving the soil for the production of adobe blocks ignores on-going or potential erosion,
and negative effects in soil fertility. Urban trees are often illegally pruned --and sometimes cut- for
fuel wood, regardless of the existence of heavy fines (NKz 50,000).
38.    Degradation of Forest Land and Desertifi    . Lobito and Benguela's energy is provided
mostly by charcoal, together with bottled gas. Fuel wood is the major source of energy for aU other
LBC's households. Charcoal is largely used in commercial operations. Available estimates show total
demand for wood at the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation, considering the Benguela Province's rate of
consumption of 0.04 mn/person/yr, adds to 24-28,000 m3/yr. The current sustainable supply of wood
within the Benguela Province is estimated at 750 m3 yr. Assuming that the LBC, with roughly half the
population of the Province, consumes 350-400 m3 yr of the sustainable supply, the LBC's wood deficit
adds to 23,600-27,600 m31yr. This accounts for roughly 60% of the Province's estimated deficit of
wood supply. There are currently no plantations targeting fuel wood production.
39.    Insecurity caused by the war lead to a pattern of concentration of wood exploitation in areas of
relative security. As a result, wood exploitation outnumbers natural regeneration within specific forest
land in Angola, contributing to the current degradation of forest resources. Irregularity in the supply of
wood to urban areas due to the war, and high prices, lead to uncontrolled cutting of fuel wood within
and new urban land. The result is depletion of vegetation, followed by increased erosion and
decreased soil fertility, and the formation of patches of desert-like land. Women report collecting wood
up to 30 kilometers away from the LBC. Around Baia Farta, Caota and Caotinha, the traditionally
careful selection of tree branches for fuel wood has been replaced by drastic cuttings, often leading to
death of the whole tree. Existing regulations concerning forest reserves prevents legal exploitation of
wood resources up to a distance of 75-100 kms from the LBC, adding to the costs of commercial wood
and fuelwood within the ar considered.
40.    Desertification of land along the border of the Namibe desert south of Baia Parta poses a tra
to the survival of the Lobito Benguela Conurbation. No estimates are available on the rate at which
desertification is spreading towards the north. However, it is locally reported that the desett, beyond
Baia Farta in the mid 1970s, already engulfed most of the city's spontaneous settlements. The shnzbs
and small trees successfully grown in the area as part of a 1970's desertification control project were
10



Annex I
Page 11 of 18
cut for fuel wood following supply shortages due to the war. A pilot reforestation project started
within the last two years is failing mostly due to goat gmzing. Despite major difficulties, the
Provincial authorities are looking at appropriate alternatives to address the problem, including extending
efforts in reforestation and establishing the use of solar stoves.
41.    The Lobito-Benguela Conurbation's living resources include a full spectrum of aquatic fauna,
ranging from salt to fresh water species. The economic, nutritional and aesthetic values of this fauna
prosent excellent potential for development of the local communities. Particularly important are coastal
fisheries and the pink flamingos of Lobito. However, although fish, mostly coastal species, are locally
and nationally recognized as an important resource, other fauna do not have the &%me eriuomic
connotation.
42.    Poliution of waterways, wetlands, bays and estuaries affects flora and fauna, decreasing the
local wealth of aquatic, semi-aquatic and terrestrial species. Species diversity is affected, potentially
threatening possible economic activities including coastal and fresh water fishing, tourism, and
recreation; and directly affecting nutrition and health of the poorest sectors of the LBC's population,
which are largely dependent on fish protein. Decline in the number of flamingos and egrets is reported
by Lobito's population and authorities. Decrease in coastal fish catch and contamination of fish and
shellfish by sewage water and faeces are reported throughout the LBC's coast. Use of mangrove
vegetation for fuelwood following expansion of Catumbela led to a near extinction of Lobito's oyster, a
major former local resource both as a shellfish and raw material for limekilns.
43.    The terrestrial fauna around the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation is varied, and presents a
potential both towards economic and nutritional uses. Small species as well as large game offer a
special attration. About eight hunting ranches exist within a 125 km radius of Benguela; however,
some of the locals report that uncontrolled hunting and lack of resources management already led to
decline of local and national species.
44.    Angola's lack of management, regulations, control and/or enforcement of existing legislation
concerning fisheries directly affects artisanal fishing within the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation. Foreign
fleets are considered responsible for over fishing, leading to stock depletions and over-exploitation.
Angolan and foreign industrial fishing vessels illegally compete with artisanal fishing by invading
territory officially set aside for artisanal and coastal fishing. A management plan for sea water fishing
exploitation is being drawn at the national level. However, the LBC needs a local plan able to
guarantee the sustainable exploitaltion of said resources along its own coast.
V.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
45.    The Lobito-Benguela Corridor's environmental degradation range from decrease in water
quality to fast advance of desertification. The consequences of such degradation include serious health
deterioration, depletion of existing and potential natural and human resources, and destruction of the
physical characteristics that provide the base for the region's survival as an economic center. Water
resources are degraded due to pollution caused by lack of sanitation and waste management, erosion of
upstream and urban soils, and deforestation within the Catumbela and Cavaco watersheds. This
degradation is present at both the urban and rural settings, and directly affects the Lobito-Benguela
11



Annex 1
Page 12 of 18
Conurbation's coastal resources; coastal, surface and groundwater; bays; estuaries; wetlands and
beaches.
46.    Environmental degradation takes a special toll on the population's health. The resulting
diseases decrease the population's ability to perform at the individual, social and economic levels,
posing a constraint to economic productivity and thus becoming a burden on the State. Other effects of
the LBC's current environmental degradation include decreases in the economic performance of
seemingly unrelated sectors. For example, pollution of wetlands may decrease their ability to support
and replenish stocks of coastal fisheries, which in turn affects economic returns from existing and
potential activities such as fisheries, fishing and fish related industries, and tourism. Desertification,
still beyond the geopolitical limits of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation, is approaching Benguela from
Baia Parta at an alarming speed. Its implications on the medium-term reach beyond natural resources'
depletion to threat the very survival of the individuals and societies within the LBC. Its most
immediate impact in the LBC is the potential increase in population pressure following migration out of
affected areas.
47.    The direction taken by development within the cities of Lobito and Benguela will largely
determine the environmental future of the Benguela Province. The extent to which the Lobito-Benguela
Conurbation's impact on the region's natural resources and environment is negative or positive will
depend on carefil consideration of both the opportunities and the constraints presented by the coastal
zone and its resources.
48.    The local government has recognized the significance of the Conurbation's environmental
issues, along with the need to consider environmental rehabilitation of the region, and base its further
development on enviromnentally sustainable decisions. The lack of data, particularly applied
information is recognized as hindering both correction of policies negatively affecting the environment
and natural resources, and the development of appropriate policies and projects. Assistance was
requested to start a basic information and data center targeting solution of major environmental
problems, determine these problems' sources and degree, and stressing short-term, on-the-job training
of local staff to carry out environrment-related projects.
49.    The serious degradation of the environment and of natural resources highlights the need to
establish environmental priorities according to an emergency strategy. That is, considering immediate
solution to problems posing highest threat to public health, and to the physical and economic survival of
the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation. These include lack of sanitation and water supply, soil erosion, and
desertification. Parallel to providing emergency solution to these problems, it is necessary to develop
basic information and local capacity towards further rehabilitation, planning and policy making
conceming development and conservation of the region's resources.
A.   SHORT-TERM MEASURES
5o.    Sanitation and Water Supply:
a)    Accelerate and expand the latrine and basic water supply programs to reach the
totality of the population.
b)    Expand the latnne program to include environmental education relating to existing and
potential water-health issues; treat said education as a prerequisite to water supply
particularly to residential neighborhoods as to prevent uncontrolled increase in
12



Annex 1
Page 13 of 18
diseases. Include awareness of the dangers of inadequate water use and storage in
both its urban and rural aspects, due to the urban-rural nature of activities and
conditions within the LBC. Environmental education should emphasize water
conservation, erosion control and rehabilitation of areas immediately threatened by
desertification; each and all these items should be combined with health
improvements.
c)   Implement service areas as to provide for minimum conditions towards health
improvement. These areas should include a minimum of common water (chqfariz),
sink for washing clothes, and a well for disposal of used water. The surface next to
the water should be paved with permeable material to prevent formation of pools of
stagnant water. Used water should be used to irrigate shade and fruit trees.
d)    Expand the sewerage system to cover the central urban cores of Lobito and Benguela;
develop a system to allow rapid rehabilitation of the sanitary core of all existing multi-
store buildings.
51.    Soil and  LWater Conservation
a)    Stabilize dirt streets and eroding slopes by planting the cactus spp. common in the
region (and locally used for protective fences, erosion control, medicine and food)
until resources for implementation of better accepted species (e.g., fruit trees) become
available.
b)   Implement storm water control above Lobito and Benguela to decrease erosion and
other flooding hazards along major storm water channels; reinforce existing legislation
concerning removal of housing inside storm water channels.
c)   Implement regular cleaning of all major storm water channels.
d)    Stabilize the borders of secondary storm water channels with the local cacts spp. to
both provide for erosion control, and act as a barrier in the use of the channels as
playground areas and for bathing and washing clothes.
e)    Develop policies and public awareness concerning water use and conservation prior to
implementation of new water distribution systems.
f)   Implement water re-use systems and techniques.
52.    Desertification Control
a)    Re-institute the desertification control project, preferably considering methods
approved 'in loco' in the 1970's.
b)    Develop and implement re-vegetation projects targeting local supply of fuelwood,
construction material and improvement of microclimate; extend and support on-going
efforts by local agencies and communities to implement reforestation.
13



Page 14 of 18
c)    Create incentive and maintenance systems for re-vegetation of poor residential
neighborhoods as part of project(s) in improvement of child nutrition and health.
53.    Envi_c'nmental MAngement and,Monitoring
a)    Complement the preliminary environmental analysis of the LBC, focusing on the
gathering and organization of information necessary for ecological planning and
monitoring.
b)   Prepare a phased environmental action plan for the LBC focusing on control of
existing, as well as prevention of future enviromnental degradation and resources
depletion.
c)    Strengthen local capacity for environmental planning, monitoring and management.
B.     MEDIUM AND LONG-TERM MEASURES
54.    Preventing the occurrence of negative environmental impacts from economic development is an
essential part of a region's rational development policy. The Lobito-Benguela region, as Angola in
itself, is undergoing a transition period characterized by the need of substantial physical and economic
rehabilitation. As difficult as this situation may be, it offers the unique opportunity of re-ordering
development. As it stands now, such rehabilitation may result either in an uncontrolled increase of
ecological and environmental problems, or in a solid base towards sustainable development. The
difference lies largely on the choice of products and technologies to be applied to and implemented by
said rehabilitation. The following concerns should play a part in an environmental action plan for the
region in question.
55.    Urban Rehabilitation. Plans for development and improvement of the Benguela Region include
focus on public health, energy and water supply for residential and industrial use, revanping existing
industries and establishing new ones. These plans imply eventual rehabilitation of the majority of
Lobito's and Benguela's housing, infrastructure and induistrial operations. It is possible to direct this
rehabilitation as to prevent the increase and/or introduction of environmental and ecological problems,
correct existing problems, and create a base for sustainable development of the Lobito-Benguela
Conurbation and the Benguela region. This requires selection and regulation of the use of materials,
equipment, techniques and methods utilized; and identifying solutions compatible with the local natural
and human resources and conditions.
56.    Water Supplv. The ecological conditions of the Benguela Province determine the need for
maumum conservation of its hydrologic resources. Environmental education stressing water
conservation should be developed within the sanitary-environmental education component of the latrine
program. However, this component is, by itself, unable to guarantee optimum use and conservation of
the region's water. It is crucial that policy making be directed towards developing and establishing the
use of techniques, technologies and systems which are able to guarantee long-term water conservation
within the region. (e.g., low-flow water devices; drip and night irrigation).
57.   Industrial Development. The indirect impacts of the LBC's industrial activities on the larger
environment of the Benguela Province need to be revised as to allow for policies and regulations to
both prevent environmental and resources degradation and enhance the region's economic resources.
14



nnA  l
Page 15 of 18
'I i ist of the industries within the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation utilize equipments and methods
relatively outdated leading to high pollution and low etxiNency in the use of raw materials. It is crucial
that:
a)   Rehabilitation of the industrial center considers methods and technologies which at the same
time maximizes use of raw material and leads to minimum degrees of environmental pollution
(e.g., the sugar-cane industry can function as a closed circuit by utilizing its own waste for
combustion, thus avoiding river pollution and freeing capital from other fuel use; disposal and
waste from the fish processing industry should be re-used; and the tobacco curing industry
should have a major role in reforestation).
b)   Implement adequate industrial waste water and solid waste management.
c)   Develop and implement industrial pollution legislation and regulation.
d)   Develop local capacity to evaluate, monitor, and control industrial pollution.
58.    Agriculture, Inadequate agricultural management lead to soil exhaustion, salinization, and
waterlogging within the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation, largely contributing to the sector's poor
performance. It is necessary to:
a)   Introduce and re-introduce methods and technologies promoting soil and water conservation,
preventing health hazards, and allowing sustainable development;
b)   Develop alternative systems of production and of exploitation of the region's natural resources
as to include wild flora and fauna; and
c)   Provide incentive towards an adequate production system both adapted to the region's natural
conditions (e.g., species resistant to saline soils) and local needs (e.g., promote production and
use of coconut for health treatment and complementation of child nutrition).
59.    Institutions and Le2islation. Angola's environmental legislation is still largely limited to the
former Portuguese legislation, which covers mostly forest development and wildlife protection, and
hunting. Coastal and sea fishing legislation is being reviewed on economic terms, and several
individual efforts are on the way to complement legislation at the agriculture and energy ministries.
Discussions are on the way both at the govermnental and NGO levels, to develop a system (committee,
secretary, ministry, or other similar structure) to oversee environmental issues. Legislation and
regulations at the Provincial level are restricted to those existing at the national level. The institutions,
technical resources, information and data currently available at the national level or in the Lobito-
Benguela Conurbation microregion are limited in scope, and inadequate for either its environmental
rehabilitation, or for its resource analysis, planning, management and monitoring. In addition, the local
govermment does not have the human and technical resources necessary to prepare an environmental
action plan for the region. Regardless of efforts at the national level, the Benguela Province needs to:
a)    Establish the integration of and/or eooperation among different departments and institutions in
charge of services directly related to environmental and ecological issues.
b)    Review the existing environmental legislation to complement laws and regulations according to
current environmental and resources' status.
15



Anne" 
Page 16 of 18
c)    Utilize environmental legislation as an integral part of planning for resources' use and
development.
d)   Establish awareness of the environment as a major factor in economic development and a basic
element in the maintenance of the quality of both individual and social life. This awareness
acts to minimize the need for environmental legislation and control, maximizes sustainable use
and development of natural resources, and improves living conditions (e.g., understanding the
cycle of waterbome environmental diseases leads to improved health, decreasing health costs
for both the State and individuals).
d)   Develop the local capacity for coastal zone management.
VI.    ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE PROPOSED PROJECT
60.    Subsequent to information in the Preliminary Environmental Assessment, environmental
rehabilitation is approached by each of the project's components by including solutions to both their
inherent environmental problems and the current critical environmental status of the Conurbation. The
following section describes major characteristics of each project component.
Envirnm,ental Sanitation
61.    The environmental sanitation components of the project will divert sewage and solid waste
from the wetlands, bays and ocean water and from the cities and settlements' streets. The project
should result in a decrease of the current water and other environmental pollution, with a consequent
decrease in related diseases and improved health status, and overall improvement of the scenic and
recreational conditions of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation. The different components of the project are
integrated to allow for rehabilitation and maintenance of vital environmental functions and properties
presently under stress due to enviromnental degradation (e.g., soil fertility, wetland and estuary
productivity, and clean water); correction of natural constraints (e.g., microclimate management
through neighborhood reforestation); and enhancement of environmental opportunities (e.g., wetlands
and beach rehabilitation and protection).
62.    Sewage and Water Supply. Rehabilitation and extension of the sewage network includes
diverting the wastewater into oxidation ponds. The treated effluent and sludge wiU be used in tree
plantations next to the ponds, supervised and managed by the DPSC. These plantations wiU produce
fuelwood for low income groups, and shade and fruit trees for a combined latrine-neighborhood
revegetation project (See par. 66, 67). Quality of the effluent from the oxidation ponds will be
monitored dhrough the environmental studies. Expansion of the water supply will draw on the region's
groundwater resources to provide water for unserviced settlements. The wells will be sealed to avoid
wster contamination, and monitored for changes in both water quality and quantity. Rehabilitation of
the existing water network of Lobito and Benguela will involve minimizing and monitoring water
losses, currently over 50%. Wastewater from the standpipe-wash basin stations (dhqfarizes) will pass
through a grease trap and a natural filtering system, and be directed to irrigate shade trees around the
stations. Daily management and maintenance of these stations wiUl be the responsibility of the
communities and community centers, under the supervision of the DPSC, which wil be in charge of
ovrall management and maintenance. Health and water conservation education will be provided as
part of the sanitay-environmental education of the Low Income Sanitation Program (See par. 65, 66).
The project opted for the use of asbestos-cement pipes for the sewage system because it involves the
16



Annex 1
Page 17 of 18
use of local products, is less expensive than imported material, and implies negligible health risks for
final users. In the event that this helps revamping the local industry, occupational health hazards will
arise and need to be considered; tender documents for the project require that asbestos cement pipes be
produced in environmentally and health acceptable conditions.
63.    Stonn Water Control. Storm water control will be provided to decrease peak flow and speed
of the water, thus diminishing erosion and associated flood hazards in the major natural and man made
storm water channels. The project involves a series of small check dams above Lobito and Benguela,
correction of the capacity of the channels in Alto Liro and Bela Vista, and rehabilitation of the Vala do
Coringe in Benguela. Rehabilitation of the Vala do Coringe will remove one of Benguela's major
source of diseases. The development of drainage works in Lobito's Caponte and Commercial Zone
will consider compatibility with Lobito's lagoons' daily regime and capacity to avoid negative effects of
large inflows. Along with the series of check dams there will be a revegetation and tree planting
program implemented through the sanitary-education and revegetation program and drawing largely on
community participation (See par. 68). Private and community efforts towaid controlling storm water
are seen specially in Alto Liro and Bela Vista, and will provide the base for community participatior. in
erosion control. The checkl dams will keep the water for a maximum of five hours on peak days and
dry out for the rest of the time. Therefore, they do not pose potential threats toward increasing the
incidence of water-bome diseases, particularly schistosomiasis.
64.    Solid Waste Management. This program will improve the sanitary conditions of Lobito and
Benguela by eliminating the current accumulation of waste throughout the cities and by providing daily
waste collection at most of the cities' neighborhoods. Periodic waste collection will be provided to
eiiminate the illegal dumps (lixeiras) of other urban and peri-urban neighborhoods until daily collection
becomes available. The program will be developed to minimize pollution and health hazards, and
consider maximum use of altemative management, appropriate technology, and resources recycling.
Environmental education in regard to solid waste recycling and re-use will be dealt with as part of the
sanitary-environmental education project of the Low Income Sanitation Program.
Low Income Sanitation
65.    The Low Income Sanitation Program is designed to introduce improved latrine construction
and techniques, allowing reasonably priced sanitation for about 80% of the population in the project
area. Most of the latrines will be built in the escarpment settlements, and groundwater pollution is not
anticipated. Monitoring of groundwater quality will be provided, and a latrine installation and waste
(faeces) removal monitoring program -already started- will comnplement local data to determine health
and overall improvement within different neighborhoods following increased utilization of improved
latrnes.
66.    The~ Program's sanitary-environmental education component will desigu, promote and
implement an intensive program combining education in public health and hygiene, control of water-
bome diseases, and water-soil conservation. The component includes neighborhood revegetation and
erosion control based on distribution of fruit and shade tree saplings in connection with the sales of
improved latrine slabs, and will draw largely on community participation.
67.    Neighborhood revegetation will provide for improvement of microclimate, soil fertility and
nutrition, and erosion control. The program is divided in two parts, the latrine-revegetation of poor
neighborhoods, and erosion control in Lobito and Benguela's beaches and major storm water channels.
17



Annex 
Page 18 of 18
The trees distributed by the latrine program will be irrigated by the owner with wastewater produced by
kitchen and bath use, avoiding filling of the latrines (thus increasing their life span), and decreasing the
stagnant water streams and ponds frequently seen in the settlements' backyards, streets and common
areas. A revegetation project was started in March 1991 by the GPP and DPSC following guidelines
provided during project preparation, to test the acceptance, interest and participation response from
latrine slab buyers and from the communities. The project will be strengthened to carry out tree
planting in all standpipe-wash basin stations and along the Vala do Coringe, and revegetation (trees,
shrubs or grasses) of the escarpment slopes and drainage channels undergoing major erosion. The
program also considers a more extended urban project including school, hospital and neighborhood
afforestation. Strengthening the program involves providing basic equipment to develop the capacity of
the DPSC's nurseries to produce the required tree ssPlings, provide for their distribution, and supply
basic maintenance where applicable, that is, where maintenance is outside the scope of private or
community care.
Studies
68.    The environmental management and monitoring studies will organize environmental
information for direct use by local decision makers, and assist the local govermment build the capacity
for enviromnental rehabilitation, planning, management and monitoring. An Environmental Diagnostic
and an Environmental Action Plan will be prepared to identify resources and constraints, develop
priorities for environmental issues, and provide the framework for enviromnental rehabilitation of the
Lobito-Benguela microregion (See par. 49, 54). Monitoring will cover information needed for health
improvement; identification, correction, control and prevention of water poRution sources; recovery
and/or maintenance of economicaUy iraportant or unique living resources; and soil conservation. This
work will be complemented by the sanitary-environmental education program, which will provide the
education and training necessary to introduce and ensure environmental management at the community
and individual levels.
18



Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENT REHABILITATION PROJECT
WATER, SEWER AND STORM DRAINAGE REHABILITATION
1.     WATER REHABILITATION
A.     Objectives
1.     Over the past decade the urban population of Lobito and Benguela has more than doubled,
during which time there has been no expansion nor real maintenance of the water supply and networks.
What water arrives in Lobito is both insufficient and inferior in quality. As a result more than 60%
have no house connections today, and over one-third of these families have no water within one
kilometer. Those that can pay have to purchase water from clandestine suppliers at exorbitant prices.
Sanitary conditions in Lobito and Benguela are a serious public health risk. The raw sanitary sewage
in the back patios, hallways, and the main streets is a major source of cholera, especially in Benguela.
2.     The prime objectives of this component are: (a) to double the present water supply in both
cities so as to provide a minimum level of service to the squatters; (b) to rehabilitate and expand the
present network of water supply to cover the entire urban area and to provide public fountains in all the
squatter settlements; (c) to rehabilitate and rebuild the sanitary sewer network and pumping stations to
serve the central area; and (d) to provide sanitary sewage treatment to close the cycle - eliminating raw
sewage in the streets of both cities.
B.     Population and Water Demand
3.     Detailed population and water demand statistics are provided in the consultant's Feasibility
Study (August 1991), available in the project file, and summarized below. Population is estimated at
about 480,000 in Lobito, Catumbela, and environs and 320,000 in Benguela, Baia Farta and environs,
or a total of about 800,000 in the conurbation in 1994, when the rehabilitated and expanded water
works will come on stream. Specific domestic water consumption is estimated at 70-100 liters per
capita in the serviced areas, and 25-30 liters in the squatter settlements. Industrial, commercial, public,
and municipal consumption is presently very low, about 10%, although it is expected to increase to
about 40% over the next 20 years. The unserviced population is estimated at 52% in Lobito and 49%
in Benguela. Thus, while population of the unserviced settlements is about half the total urban
population, daily demand in the unserviced areas is estimated at 10,000 n3, about 21% of the total
expanded production capacity of 2,000 m3 per hour, or 48,000 m3 per day.
C.     Lohito Water Supplv
4.     The supply for Lobito comes from a wellfield in Catumbela, consisting of cacimbas
(infiltration sumps) and shallow wells plus direct pumping of raw water from the river. Mhe total
installed capacity is about 600 m3 per hour, but it is barely able to discharge 300 m3 per hour. The
supply must be increased to 1,000 m3 per hour. Six new wells 50 meters deep would be drilled and
connected to the existing 300 mm diameter rising main to the open reservoirs at the old treatment plant.
The water supply for the Town of Catumbela will also be improved along with the transmission main.
1



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
5.     The new wellfield located two kilometers upstream, east of Catumbela, would be developed as
a gallery of six wells 50 meters deep along with observation wells and a cniorination station at the
beginning of a new 500 mm transmission line. This would feed directly into the existing 500 mm
transmission to Lobito, Bela Vista and Alto Lira.
6.     Treatment Plant - The existing plant, built around 1947, has three slow filtration units and
th-se open reservoirs. With the shift from surface to ground water sources, the raw water quality will
be satisfactory so that only chlorination will be required. Therefore, the inefficient filtration plant can
be closed down. The three open reservoirs should be roofed as protection against contamination;
however, this investment can be postponed until the future of the existing reservoirs can be determined.
7.     Pumping Stations and Reservoirs - The pumping station EE2, built in 1972, was designed to
serve the lower ponion of Bela Vista, but has never worked. The existing inlet pipe will be moved to
the bottom of the suction chamber so that the pumps can become operational. The EE 3 pumps,
between the circular reservoirs of R3, also have never worked for lack of water. Only minor repairs
are needed to make them operational, so they will not be included in the international tenders. Today
Bela Vista is supplied by two old smaller stations that barely reach the service contour of 150 meters
serving less than one-third of the population. Reservoir 4, which is the highest at elevation 170 meters,
has also never functioned for lack of water. It will be served by an existing 300 mm main. When all
of the above reservoirs in service, there will storage capacity for 54% of the daily production.
8.     Networks - The First Phase will supply about 100 liters per capita for those with house
connections. For the squatter settlements of Alto Lira, Bela Vista and Catumbela, a network of 300
standpipes would be provided along with washing facilities. Each standpipe of four taps would serve
150 families (800-1,000 persons) within a maximum walking distance of 200 meters. Each standpipe
will be equipped with a securely locked water meter set into the standpipe. The main commercial and
industrial enterprises and apartment buildings, including the Restinga residential area, will be connected
with water meters that will remain the property of EPAB.
D.     Benguela Water Suppyi
9.     Benguela relies entirely on ground water pumped from the existing wellfield in the vicinity of
the water treatment plant. The wellfield has gradually been surrounded by residential and industrial
buildings, with no space for future expansion. The present output is a theoretical 470 e3 per hour;
however, this rated capacity does not represent the true output as there are no measuring devices. Only
the three wells drilled after 1980 are presently operating. The rising main from the wellfield to the
treatment plant increases in diameter from 250 mm to 500 mm.
10.    In the existing wellfield, nine non-functioning wells will be abandoned while three will be
rehabilitated by cleaning, video inspection, repairs, well head improvements, testing and disinfection.
A new wellfield would be constructed along the Cavaco River aquifer consisting of six new wells along
with two observation wells. Supply will be increased to 1000 m3 per hour.
11.    Treatment Plant - The Italian designed plant has a present capacity of 500 m3 per hour. The
final engineering exists for a second phase of 500 m3 per hour to double the present capacity. The
plant is designed to remove the iron and manganese from the water, but the water quality in terms of
bacteria count is satisfactory with no harmful pathogens. Therefore, the first phase does not include
the expansion of the plant. Nevertheless,there should be periodic monitoring of the iron and
manganese content.
2



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
12.    Pumping Stations - The EEI pumping station is located at the treatment plant (ETA) which
pumps into the reservoir RI. From there the main part of the town is supplied along with reservoirs
R2 and R3; however, the available head is only 11 meters. The project would double the capacity of
EE;I where three new pumps would to be installed with a 400 or 500 mm main to reservoir R6.
Pumping station EE2, located at reservoir R3 pumps water to reservoir R5. An emergency power
supply of 50 kilowatt would be installed at this critical link. Pumping station EE3, located at the small
reservoir R4, serves reservoir R7 which supplies Baia Farta. A new pump set would be installed as a
standby for EE3. The existing storage is 45 % of the present water consumption. At a later stage, the
storage capacity of RO should be increased.
13.    Networks - The increased production to 1,000 m3/hour corresponds to the projected demand by
the year 2000. The 1990 water demand is calculated at 760 m3/hour. The demand at Baia Farta today
is 63 m3/hour; while the population receives less than one-third. The capacity of the main pumping
station EE 1 would be doubled and a new rising main of 400 mm would be provided to the rehabilitated
reservoir R6. In the near future, a new transmission line from the new wellfield to the airport will be
required along with new reservoirs to serve the expansion areas and Baia Farta. For the squatter
settlements on the periphery of Benguela a network of 200 standpipes equipped with water meters
would be provided along with washing facilities similar to the pattern for Alto Lira and Bela Vista.
The main commnercial and industrial users and large apartment buildings of Benguela would also be
metered.
I1.    SEWER REHABILITATION
A.    Lobito Sanitary Sewers
14.    The present network, serving the main commercial area and low-rise apartment buildings, is
clogged in at least half the length, while in the other half raw sewage drains directly into the tidal
lagoon - a habitat of the red and pink flamingos. A new gravity network would be provided with two
lift stations and force main connected to the Compao system. The Compao network and lift stations
were virtually complete in 1975; however, since Independence no work has been done. The gravity
lines have become choked and the abandoned pumping station filled with debris and sewage sludge.
This network would be rehabilitated along with the house connections. The lift stations EE9 and EE1O
would be rehabilitated and equipped with new pumps and controls. EE1O would be equipped with a
force main to the series of oxidation ponds two kilometers south of the city. A section of the main will
be submerged under the lagoon. This system can be expanded easily to serve the 'restinga' residential
and commercial areas. The ponds are located on waste land today. The treated effluent would be used
for irrigating fruit trees, tree nurseries and grain crops to close the cycle. The cost estimates for the
commercial area are based on an entirely new network; however, the cost of rehabilitation of the
Compao will be half that of a new system.
B.     Benguela Sanitary Sewers
15.    The sanitary sewage network, serving only a small portion of the center of Benguela, is
partially broken and clogged. Part of the raw sewage eventually leaks onto the beaches in front of the
city. Most of the buildings have septic tanks that are continually overflowing into the back patios,
hallways, and streets. This condition is one of the main sources of cholera in Benguela. The central
area of Benguela including all the buildings above two stories will be connected to a new gravity
network. Included in the network is an interceptor sewer that will pick up all the small sewers that
dump raw sewage into the Coringe channel today. One small lift station and one main sewage pumping
3



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
station would be provided along with a force main of four kilometers that will connect to a series of
oxidation ponds to the south of the city where there is adequate room for expansion for future needs.
As in Lobito, the treated effluent would irrigate tree nurseries and grain crops.
Ill.    VALA DO CORINGE STORM DRAINAGE CHANNEL
16.    The Vala do Coringe drains a major portion of the city of Benguela and has a drainage basin
of 60 square kilometers extending inland about 18 kilometers. Over the years the four kilometer
channel that traverses the urban area has become choked wi.h garbage, raw sewage and vegetation.
With the scarcity of fresh water, slum dwellers have dug mud holes amongst the debris to wash their
clothing. The mud holes attract children who play in the dirty water, thus turning the Vala into a
major source of disease and a health hazard to the city.
17.    The project would provide a 3.8 kilometer dressed open channel that follows the present
alignment and gradient to a sea outfall. Lateral storm drains with large inlets on the south side have
been included to reduce the flash floods in adjacent bairros. Since the annual rainfall is between 100-
300 mm per year and falls mainly during the summer months, February, March, and April, the channel
will be virtually dry for about seven months of the year. The lower section of the channel from the sea
outlet to the airport bridge, 1,400 meters, will be reinforced concrete 120 mm thick to withstand the
ground water lift pressure, with side drainage weep holes at two meter (o.c.) intervals. Above the
bridge, the channel would be pre-cast slabs of 100 to 120 mm thickness set in mortar bed with
geotextile mesh and strategically located drains for the periodic rise in the water table.
18.    Five pedestrian crossings (fords) have been designed with raised stepping treads across the bed
of the channel and steps notched into the slopes. While the channel is essentially self-cleaning, it
would be cleaned manually of debris to eliminate any vegetative growth. The accesd ramps for the two
vehicular fords have been designed for small tractors and wagons to haul the debris out from each
section. An additional access ramp has been provided between the three vehicular bridges for the same
purpose. The sea outfall has been designed for self-cleaning under all weather conditions.
19.    There are two existing vehicular bridges, one to the airport and the other to the south along the
coast to Baia Farta. The consultants have determined that the sub-grade girder on the first bridge can
be lowered to enlarge the channel section under the bridge so that the bridge does not have to be
replaced. However, the second bridge must be replaced as it has temporary reinforcements under one
of the main girders that failed. A third bridge is planned at the rnid-point of the length of the channel
so that the main traffic generated by the cemetery and the seven adjacent barrios on the south side will
have a conventional vehicular bridge crossing. Upstream two vehicular fords will provide access to the
spontaneous settlements extending to the southeast. Vehicular traffic volumes projected for the next ten
years do not justify another grade level bridge crossing. Pre-cast pavers would be set on edge to
provide a curb and gravel stop along the stabilized earth and gravel walk and cycle path along the south
side and a service road on the north side. Trees would be planted to provide a canopy of shade along
both sides of the channel.
20.    To lower peak flows an earthen retention dam has been designed about 1,200 meters east of
the airport to provide a five to six hour retention of about 600,000 cubic meters capacity. The dam has
been designed with a three meter head. It would serve as a recharge basin and sedimentation trap
which would be cleaned periodically. In addition eight small velocity check dams of 2.5 to 3.0 meters
in height, using gabions, would be built upstream and downstream of the main dam as well as on the
4



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
parallel tributary. Trees would be planted along both sides of the channel to provide a canopy of
shade.
21.    Preliminary cost estimate of the channel is $2.64 rnillion and for the eight check dams
$540,000. Detailed engineering will be completed by July 1991 and bidding documents will be issued
to pre-qualified bidders by September, 1991.
IV.    LOBITO STORM DRAINAGE FOR ALTO LIRO AND BELA VISTA
22.    The seven major storm drainage galleys have become heavily eroded as squatters have
occupied the slopes, cutting the vegetation and notching small ledges to build their huts. Many have
built in the bottoms of the gullies. The April rains this year demolished many huts and caused fourteen
deaths. Before Independence the Portuguese built a few erosion control dams. Most of these are now
filled with debris and sediment but do function as velocity check dams.
23.    The project would provide a series of retention/velocity check dams in each of the seven
drainage basins. A prototypical design using gabions has been prepared with heights of dam between
three and four meters. A total of fifty such dams would be provided, set 300 to 400 meters apart. The
average cost of these check dams is $50,000; total cost is $2.56 million.
5



'
A4
.

.2c    
- . A
,.. .
 
 i':
.\-.
. .. ., .
 



\ _%~                                                 ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .   . .     .%  ...  -_9



Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
THE LOW INCOME SANITATION PROGRAM
I. SUMMARY
1.1 Backgromund. Improved sanitation is critical in improving hygiene, healdth and general living
conditions in any developing country. This is especially tme in the cities of Lobito and Benguela and their
environs. Even the casual visitor to the unplaned settlements (mussegucsi of the Lobito-Benguela
conurbation will be shocked at the lack of water and sanitation, and especially by the open fields of hunmn
faeces only inches apart. Clearly, conditions define an emergency stuation. Cholera has been the most
recent kdller with a faecal-oral cycle of transmission, but other diarrhoeal diseases along with malaria and
schistosomiasis point to the urgent need for improvement in environmental sanitation.
1.2   Instituional Arrangements. Under the general direction of the Director of the Gabinete
Provincial do P?ano (GPP), Provincial Directorate of Phnning, the Diretora Provindal de Servicos
Comunitauios (DPSC), Provincial Directorate of Community Services, will undertake implementation of
the Low Cost Sanitation Program. A sanitary-environmental education component will be undertaken by
the Diretoria Provincial de Saude (DPS), Provincial Directorate of Health.
1.3    Current Status and Progress. The Low Cost Sanitation Program of the Urban Environmental
Rehabilitation Project is advancing slightly ahead of schedule, due primarily to the high level of motivation
of the involved staff, and a firm political commitment by both the Provincial and the cities' governments.
Due to shortages of cement and appropriate rnsportation for the latrine slabs, production was tempoadly
curtailed, after an early high-quaity output of some 450 slabs. Direct interference by the Govenor has
allowed restoring the cement supply, leading to fast recovery of production. The slabs have been
distributed to community conters where they are being sold to the public at a price easily covering the
official production cost. The slabs are being installed in self-built latrines, by the owners or by builders
contracted directly by the owners. The sanitary-environmental education component is only in the
beginning stages of implementation. Although some education is already part of the ongoing work, a full
program is yet to be finalized.
1.4    Cost and Cost Recovery. The cost of the improved latrine slab is presently NKz 2000-3000 (New
iKwanzas), while the value of the superstructure and the pit may vary from NKz 2.000 to 20.000, depending
on how and by whom it is built. The actual level of cost recovery is difficult to calculate, since esimaes
vary depending upon use of the official or the parallel dollar mtes. Presently the finished slab is sold for
NKz 3000, about US$S50.00 at the official exchange rate of NKz 60, but only US$4.00 at the unofficial ruta
of NKz 750. It is expected that the kwaa price of finished slabs, and other building materials sold by the
project, will be adjusted to reflect fully future devaluations of the currency.
1.5    Production, Promotion and Sales. Production and sales of the slabs have so far been in balance.
Given that present production is foreseen to increase considerably, a strong promotional component has
been projected, aiming at a total coverage of around 60% of the area's popuation by the end of the latrine
project (1995), and 90% coverage by the year 2000.
1.6    Sunitary-Environmental Education. The sanitary-environmental education component has been
included as a major part of the low cost sanitation progrm due to it being crucial to safegurd the
investments in improved infra-structures (water and sanitation), as woll as to guaantee results in health
imprvement. Developing and coordinating the sanitay-environmental education compxent will be one of
1



Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
the principal tasks of the Resident Sanitation-Environmental Adviser, who will also coordinate and train
local staff in the implementation of the program.
1.7    Staffing. Most government positions required for implementation of the program have already
been filled within the government recurrent budget, implying that the posts will continue beyond the end of
the present Low Cost Sanitation Program. The need for any further positions will be addressed during the
execution of the program. Once the Resident Sanitation-Environmental Adviser is in place, all currently
projected salaried positions would have been filled. The enthusiasm of those directly and indirectly
involved in the latrine project, and their high expectations regarding development of the program indicate
that a successful program may be policy setting for the country over the coming decade. Indeed, the project
is already being extended, through local initiative, to other regions within the Benguela Province.
H. COSTS AND SCHEDULE FOR IMPLEMENTATION
1.8   Implenentation Plan. Plans for implementation, including initial cost projections, procurement
timetables, and disbursement schedules, have been discussed with those concerned in the Gabinete
Provincial de Piano de Benguela and in the provincial office of the Director of Servicos Comunitarios.
The plan considers 60% coverage by 1995 (57,600 units) and full coverage (90%) by the year 2000
(124,000 units). This implies that the initial production plans of 2,400 latrines for 1991 will double each
year, with a peak implementation in 1995 of 22,000 units per year. The key factors in the implementation
of this program are the promotion and sanitary-environmental education components. Provision of transport
and the supply of cement are, however, critical to successful implementation of the program (See summary
sheets in Annex A. These projections should be reviewed once peace is established, and the local
authorities have a better idea of the population changes that may follow.
1.9    Costs. For the initial period of latrine installation, a nominal cost of
NKz 3000 is levied for slabs. That cost will be reassessed from time to time, as the program grows.
Government and conmmunity contribution towards total cost recovery will be assessed latter in the program.
Given the unofficial market in operation today, it is difficult to significantly relate these costs to US$
figures. However, agreement was reached at negotiations to maintain cost accounting in US dollars, in
order that prices of latrine slabs and other building materials may be adjusted to reflect fully the value of
expected currency devaluations.
1.10   Budgeting. A total of US$ 4,800,000 has been budgeted for implementation of the Low Cost
Sanitation Program, of which US$ 522,000 as PPF. Project funding is principally intended to cover
expenses for international experts and consultants, training, equipment and building material (cement). A
separate account has been opened for the latrine building project. Revenues from the sale of finished latrine
slabs will be reinvested fully in the low income sanitation program, thereby reducing capital costs.
1.11   Bottlenecks. The principal immediate problems facing the project are shortage of cement, lack of
appropriate transport for the slabs and lack of transport for supervision, and lack of an adequate program
for promotion and sanitary-environmental education. Initial steps are underway to expand the promotion
and sanitary-environmental education component, with involvement of staff members of the Ministry of
Health. Experimental arrangements are underway for truck-bed transport of slabs arranged verticaly to
avoid breakage. The cement issue has been taken up at higher political levels, and temporarily resolved.
The continuous supply of cement throughout the life of the project, however, needs to be given special
consideration, since the Low Income Sanitation program is otherwise vulnerable.
2



Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
ImI. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Latrine Construction and Sanitary-environmental educstion
1.12   Under the direction of the Director of the Gabinete Provincial do Piano de Benguela and the
guidance of the Sanitation Consultant, personnel in both the Servicos Comunitarios and the Ministerio de
Saude ( Health Ministry - MINSA) are responsible for implementation of the plans for improved low cost
sanitation, along with sanitary-environmental education. Although there should be an overlap between the
two institutional bases, the Servicos Comunitarios and related municipal staff are solely responsible for
slab production and promotion, leading to installation of new latrines. The staff of MINSA are primarily
involved in the promotional aspect linked with sanitary-environmental education. The personnel involved in
the project and their specific duties are listed in Figure 1. Aside from the official personnel in Figure 1,
key personnel include those involved in the life of the peripheral areas, such as local political figures,
religious leaders, community organizers, etc. The Governador Provincial (Provincial Governor) has given
especial support to the program since its outset, promoting latrine building through public speeches and by
providing a unique backup and moral support to program officials. Also involved to round out local
personnel are artists, teachers &nd cultural figures, all focusing on education.
1.13   Local Staff. There are currently no major local personnel vacancies, as the posts listed in Figure
1 are already filled; it is expected that later needs witl be met as necessary. The major concern is on-going
in-service training, to be organized by the Resident Sanitation-Environmental Adviser. As indicated below,
there may be temporary need for public health students' assistance regarding baseline studies (see par.
1.31).
IV. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.14   Resident Sanitation-Enviromnental Adviser. One Resident Sanitation-Environmental Adviser
will be recruited for the time of the project. He will advise government staff on the implementation of the
Low Cost Sanitation Program, the Sanitary-Environmental Education Component, Solid Waste, and
domestic water management and other environmental programs. A draft contract, including terms of
reference, has been submitted to the Government for final appointment of a Resident Sanitation-
Environmental Adviser, who should be in place within a few months. The terms of reference, which may
yet be modified, are attached in Annex A.
1.15   Consultants. There is a need for extemal assistance for a) regular support by the Supervising
Consultant, who will also continue with the production of manuals and promotional materials; and b)
occasional visits by specialists in sanitary education from nearby countries, as well as specialists in such
technical concerns as the pollution of groundwater by latrine use.
V. TECHNOLOGY
Low Cost Sanitation
1.17   The Govemment, in agreement with the World Bank Sanitation Consultant, has opted for a lowest
cost sanitation technology principally based on the production and commerciali2 ation of a dome-shaped
improved latrine slab. The slab incorporates important feaures for maximum hygiene and child safety, as
described in Figure 2.
3



Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
iector Prvincl do Pao (Provinoial Director of Pling) - diects the low oot anitation pject, assit
,by the Prejot Engner nd staff of the Planning Directorate,
- hvcto ProvIial do Servkos Comualtrlo  (Provincial Directr of CommuWty Services) - provides overall
_idan  to the iVplementation of the low oDt sanitation program.
i)fr:os Micpals dos Service Comualtar   (Munioipal Diremtor of Community Services) of Lobito nd
BEpguk - coordinato physial iiplmentation of the progmn at the municipal level, contidering othor ongoing
ctivities.
Cdor esl u  M ukcpab de Sancameato (Municipal Sanitation Coordiaors) . direct the implmentaion of the
low               pram I speell municipalities.
Ch: S .-   Produeae (Wo*ksop Poremen) - organize the production of latinn slab. in the oentalized worshop.
direct th waok of those actually prducing the slabs, The formnn and the wod aso appot individual
households i thei Oonstruction of te inmproved latrines in whic th sl  are inalled.
ct  Prfvinl 4 Saade (wvinaial Ditector of flelth). +provids overall guidance to tho  nit  i
Jt r P 'O      l 4 N    epidewlolga (Ptovia Dirtotr of Hygiee ind  pideniolol ) ^ supe
the work  health    atorncludi  a focs on nitaty  .du                                - c.
(kuj&t 4. Sau4. - special gmup of health *orknsat the provicial level wiich ctpnes het e    , us
t*snad  he vQmedl:t tah th pubic bette health psutiesexA;.   :0
rinaed  ioy he Mnii ,           t4   at         s        fr      .....
lot la4iiiud tFrine -insta)1tira             i                                a
*ounrexpast, the DirectI -of ommuniity Services. Th Advisr WIl repor directly to the r iia Di6kto o.
Pla F nn4f " vSA  *XMi
1 Pigure 1: Petsonnel and duties of the Low Cost Sanitation Program.
1.18    Easy to install. The latrine slab can be easily installed on the top of a simple pit (1.10 m in
diameter) by any layman. Where the soil is unstable, the pit can be lined with stone, bricks or cement
blocks. Where the soil is difficult to dig, pit volume can be increased by mounting the pit-lining above the
ground level.
1.19    Self-built superstructure. The superstructure, roof and walls, can be build according to the
owner's stipulations and preference, thus providing the desired level of privacy.
TrManpr
1.20    Centralized production. In order to facilitate the control of both production and the use of
cement, the Government has opted for a centralized system for production of the improved latrine slabs.
4



Annex 3
Page 5 of 7
As a consequence, there is a need for motorized                                   ...............
transport not only of the building material, but also  eeated foots - hel   e user fid the  t
to transport the slabs to the selling points within the  poBition even at n ight when th ltrin is ttay dad;;
various housing area . Furthermore, there is a need
for local cart transport of the slabs from the selling  keyhole shaped dropj-bole - the foor 
points to the individual latrine building sites.     reduction and reshaping of the drophole t4 a
mninsm size, mnking it compately ute for ven tli
1.21    Lorries and Hand pushed carts. The need      arnillet hidren;
of motorized transport (lorries) for building material
and slabs has been estimated in the implementation    lig  latrig installation n t   diueiint
altowing kAine insSation in th Wmiatnedi YiCill.ty
plan, and provided for in the budget for the Low        t  h     w       th u      oowne. d
Cost Sanitation Program. It is anticipated that the   unwanted "mell Od fli*';
vehicles will be imported for the project. Additional
capacity can be hired locally as required. Hand       sloplag surfads Of the dome shapedslab . :p"r  ;
pushed carts will be produced locally based           th sweeping of oxtoior mnaerl ito th- l
principally on the use of scrap material such as old  hence avoidn rapid   iwiA nWm.  e0 mpoab
car wheels, water pipes, etc. If required, small       tt;                                      ;
quantities may be imported.                              a    o      r
Inwvard slopln susfWe#l Xi, i
Urpoe- diW   uAm "V   imd  |  X
Ptomotion                                   diroa mia  sl -    d
1.22    Multi-Media Promotion. Latrine building      ase of -ean   duo t   oi X 
is not a usual custom in the area of the Low Cost    vOWy smooth finh of thw srfae, wc
Sanitation Program, a strong promotional component    h       a   r   e        s d   n      i v ig
is necessary to support its production, sale and use.
The project's promotional component will use a wide
range of media from conventional sanitary and
environmental education, drama and festivals, to
commtunity competitions, leadership training and commercial stratagems. It is anticipated that the local
leaders will carry the lion' share of the promotional program.
1.23    Promotional Material. The promotional activities will be supported with especially designed
promotional goods presently difficult to acquire in the project area, though commonly used in industrialized
countries. These include ball-point pens, stickers, t-shirts, solar-powered calculators, caps, etc; all items
will feature promotional printing encouraging both consttuction of improved latrines and improvement of
hygiene.
1.24   The Clean Cities. The ultimate goal of the promotional component is to create in the cities of
Lobito and Benguela a collective will to transform today's disastrous sanitation conditions, to become the
cleanest cities in Angola.
VI. TRAINNG
1.25    Supervised On-The-Job Training. As a general rule, taining will be carried out as suptvised
on-the-job training. It is anticipated that the Resident Sanitation-Environmental Adviser will coordinate
these activities, supported as required by the Supervising Consultant.
1.26    Manuals. Draft manuals have been prepared by the Supervising Consultant as follows:
5



Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
(a) Gestao (Management);
(b) Manual de Construcao de Latrinas Melhoradas (Manual for Construction of
Improved Latrines);
(c) Promocao e Educacao Sanitaria (Promotion and Sanitary Education);
(d) Como Trabalhar corn Pessoas (How to Work with People).
1.27   It is anticipated that the manuals will be revised and completed by the Supervising Consultant based
on continued findings during program execution. It is expected that the manuals will ultimately be useful for
implementation of an eventual nationwide low cost sanitation program.
1.28   Study Tours. Study tours will be arranged to visit similar programs in other African countries
(e.g., Mozambique and/or Zimbabwe), with the purpose of exchanging experience and encouraging
commitment to the project. These tours would provide first-hand opportunity to learn from relatively
successful programs implemented by local communities and citizens. The study trips should be arranged by
the Resident Sanitation-Environmental Adviser and the Superviag Consultant.
1.29   Training of Community Leaders. Given that the eventual success of the program depends on the
active involvement of community leaders, considerable attention will be given to their training. Emphasis
will be placed on dialogue, as focused on program implementation, and training will include basic principles
of sanitation and development of the ability to work with people. The following aspects will receive especial
attention: a) construction and maintenance of imptoved latrines; b) importance of personal and
environmental hygiene; c) monitoring and evaluation; and d) how to work with people.
Im. SANITARY-ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION
1.30   Worldwide experience documents a high rate of failure of sanitation programs and projects,
particularly when focus on the techl^ology disregards socio-economic-cultural-religious-political factors.
Therefore, the Low Cost Sanitation Prognrm is designed to include a major element in sanitary-
environmental education, which adopts a procedure based on the interests, needs and knowledge level of the
community participants, in tun to be identified through dialogues with the local people. Initial talks with
key community leaders in the musseques, the director and staff of the Provincial Ministry of Health, and the
director of public health of the University of Luanda show a high level of concern for emergency measures,
and a deep commitment to long-term development of a successful sanitary-environmental education
program. Elements under consideration include emergency measures, studies, education and training, and
an integrated approach to sanitation, as described bellow.
1.31   Emergency Health Measures. Current disease patterns highlight water-borne and water-washed
disease transmission, especially cholera and diarrhoeal diseases (See Annex A). This makes the low-cost
sanitation program the more relevant. It is proposed that, while teaching oral rehydration therapy (ORT)
and personal hygiene, health workers should also respond to individuals' concems about illness in the
family -particularly diseases resulting from faecal-oral transmission- by educating them about the links
between health, water and sanitation. D.Ipite the reportedly widespread administration of ORT in the
project aea, death statistics from cholera and diarrhoeal diseases suggest the need for further improvement.
As the ORT program is enhanced, a sanitary-environmental education component can easily be introduced
in a way that concern about diseases would lead to increased use of latrines. Another proposal being
considered refers to introduction of temporary municipally managed irench latnnes in the open defecation
fields, along with an educational program to help clarify the link between faecal contamination and disease.
6



Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
The result nay be that people would become more comfortable with the use of latrines, and want to have
their own close to home.
1.32   Base-Line Studies. Base-line studies should be carried out in selected pilot areas to help
determine the actual environmental health profile of the musseques. The studies could be undertaken with
the assistance of public health students of the University of Angola, and should include a knowledge,
attitude, and practice survey (KAP-study) covering such specifics as water, sanitation, personal hygiene,
faecal-oral disease transmission, and latrine use. Some data is already available covering illness and death
in Benguela, Lobito (includes Catumbela), and Baia Farta, along with province-wide data, at the provincial
health office. The data needs .o be analyzed for local patterns; e.g., the 1990 data shows 3408 reported
cases of cholera in the province, of which 3005 within the Lobito-Benguela conurbation; the total number of
deaths is 445, of which 273 in t1e project area. However, only 25% of the deaths are children under 15
years old, suggesting either an effective child-health program, inadequate data collection, or the strength of
children who have suvived the war, drought, and poverty (UNICEF estimates one-third of Angolan
children die before the age of five).
1.33   Conmnunity-Based Education. There are various channels for community-basxd education which
can successfully reach the targeted population. Official channels allow including sanitary-environmental
education, for example, in the broader program of health education and in the educational units for
children, youth, and adults. Community organizations -religious, political, cultural, etc- will be explored
as possible channels for community education. Initial contacts with different groups suggest promising
involvement. This program would cover matters emerging from the above KAP study, as well as particular
points such as latrine installation, maintenance, and use. Other specific examples include: a) literature
about sanitation taylored to the newly-literate; b) academic training for school children covering the basic
concepts of disease transmission via water contaminated by improperly disposed human waste; and c)
simple instructions about latrine siting, pit digging, superstructure options, and maintenance.
1.34   Leadership Training. As discussed before, leadership training is crucial to the success of the
Program, and it is of the utmost importance that community leaders receive maximum support in their own
training of the communities.
1.37   P rovince-Wide Education. Educational techniques useful for the area include radio, TV, posters,
music, theater, puppets, and various promotional items. Several radio interviews have already been aired;
selected musicians and artists have shown interest in developing popular material; and experimental use of t-
shirts, ball-point pens, and stickers has been launched. These especial sources and techniques could amplify
the community-based education focus.
1.38   Integration. Sanitary-environmental education must be integrated into the broader concerns of the
society, becoming part of nation-level programs, and the broader developmental concerns of the province. It
is important that distinct sanitary education programs be pursued. Nonetheless, sanitary-environmental
education is intrinsic to areas or sectors of wider concerns, and should be treated as such. The most obvious
example is that of primary health care, which is understood a priority and normally conveys a positive
response by the targeted population. Sanitation not only complements primary care, but indeed ensures that
its results are maintained. Primary health care c'nuld readily incorporate sanitary-environmental education as
a major pillar of good health. This integration would ensure that the results of sanitation and sanitary-
enviromental education could be at leart as effective as those of the parent project. Following this line, the
low-cost sanitatio./sanitary-envirommental education integrated component of the Lobito-Benguela Urban
Environmental Rehabilitation Project should facilitate, health for all by the year 2000.
7



1_E2 __
5b<^, __ i iil , .
a,- __ I _l l
.,{.,.,. 1 | _ I
_   _ l | _ l                                               I
__ | _ l
_ ;1 l - I l
. | | _ ! | _ I
R ! __ | - l - l *__
.r vf l_ l_ - _ | | 1 | l -
Et5 __ _ _ ! lll _ * l |
:%,% __ _ _21 l 11 _ * I _ I-
h --111 i 11
| I | I | I | s | I
BE l - | | I * I _ * I
w _ _-I 1111 I IIZI I | I | 11 I 
.' . - . ! t l | | 1. 
'si   s <_-<;zzu _9sw
" H "
i 11 11
s XX Z i
3                               t't    11        lZ
s_h__ ^uesssssssss.N+seN.N.v s.s h.oro.$r.2rr.|::.*y.+r>>:q>>> >>>>>>j>>>se.>$      -  _  _ _



AV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W 
*v->w-t v* <vM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.<.<<:<S_ .:c:n_ _  ,v> !     _
_~~~~~~~~~
WHe ','' n.
.'  fe   .Av&<,',  78  .~~~~~~~~~



Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
A.    LOBITO
1.    CnmL Situation. The city of Lobito has an estimated population of 400,000 inhabitants,
including about 125,000 in the consolidated urban center. Catumbela, at the southern fringe of the
Lobito urban system, has some 10,000 inhabitants in its urban center. There are 162 registered
enteipri6se, and 201 other businesses which altogether cinploy about 30,000 workers in the formal
sector. Although some equipment has been acquired recently to improve the capacity of the DPSC to
manage solid waste, less than 10% of urban waste is collected, primarily in the built-up downtown
areas, and only part of that is disposed of in the garbage dump. Aside from lack of equipment, service
to the peripheral low income settlements is hampered by the poor conditions of roads which in turn
contribute to the breakdown of vehicles. As a result, spontaneous dumps have proliferated along the
main roads and in vacant areas in the low income settlements, where pigs and chickens feed and
children scavenge for recyclable materials. Due to the lack of latrines, the dumps have a high content
of human faeces.
2.     Qnnicg  tion. The DPSC of Lobit employs 580 workers of which 150 are located in
Catumbela. The DPSC has a proliferation of departments, each headed by a Chief, which include:
Administration, Planning and Control, Accounting, Technical, Patrimony, Human Resources,
Transport, Urban Sanitation, Parks, Markets, Cemeteries, and Road Maintenance. The Department of
Urban Sanitation covers only the downtown areas of Lobito and Catumbela, serving about 135,000 out
of the 400,000 in the Municipality. Some 340 workers are organized in eight brigades of twelve
workers each, which work in two shifts six days a week in order to maximize the use of insufficient
equipment.
3.     Euuip_mnt. The equipment of the Department includes three tractors, one loader, one open
IFA truck (out of order), three small capacity dumpers, one water tank tmck, one l5m3 compactor
truck (out of order), and two bulldozers (out of order). Equipment is hired periodicaly to supplement
the Department's vehicles, particularly for emptying septic tanks. Due to the lack of equipment, the
tractors that do the daily rounds don't travel to the garbage dump, about eight kilometers from
downtown Lobito, but deposit the waste in a large yard behind the municipal maintenance shop. On
weekends, or when the yard overflows, trucks are hired or borrowed to transport the waste to the
dump.
4.     Waste Gewation. It is estimated that the population of the downtown areas of Lobito and
Catumbela (135,000) generate about 250 grams of waste per capita per day, or about 33.75 metric tons
daily. The remaining 265, 000 inhabitants in the periphery produce about 150 gram per capita a day,
or 40 tons daily. In addition, about five tons are produced daily by street cleaning in the central areas.
The six formal and a few informal markets may generate another ten tons per day. Thus, about 88.75
tons are generated daily, of which 40 tons in the downtown areas and the balance in the periphery.
Tho current situation is worsening, as solid waste accumulates not only in numerous spontaneous
roadside durmps, but more and more in the empty lots, streets and parks of the downtown areas. In
I



Annex4
Page 2 of 4
contrast, it estimated that the three tractors serving the city collect about six or seven tons daily, that is
less than 10%. This has led to an estimated 2,000 or 2,500 tons of accumulated waste throughout the
city.
5.     Proposed Solution. The proposed solid waste management component would respond to this
situation with a two phase plan, including the provision of vehicles, tools and equipment, and technical
assistance and training. The first nhase would consist of the urgent removal of the spontaneous dumps
from the peripheral settlements, while beginning to establish a system of 2.5 m3 and 10 mi3 containers
in these areas, accompanied by technical assistance and the environmental/sanitary popular education
campaign. The second phase would complete the distribution of containers in the periphery and
introduce the use of 800 liter containers in the built-up downtown areas of Lobito, Benguela and
Catumbela. The provision of equipment for vehicle maintenance and for management of the dumps, as
well as the rehabilitation of the shops and the fencing of the dumps would also be concluded in the
second phase. The technical assistance during this phase would develop the strategic plan for solid
waste maintenance and train staff at the various levels. The program would be completed in two years.
Startup would commence upon the arrival of the two advisors and the first part of the tools, materials,
and equipment.
6.     Downtown Areas. It is proposed to use a system of 800 liter containers in the built up areas
with daily pick up service. In these areas about 150 containers would be required to coliect 33.75 tons
of waste, assuming a 75 % utilization of the containers. These containers would require two 12m'
loading and compacting trucks, working at 70% efficiency, sixteen hours a day in two shifts, assuming
seven tons or 29 containers per load, at an average speed of 2.5 tons per hour per truck. These figures
assume an initially poorly trained workforce and a relatively slow maintenance service.
7.     Erudhery. In the periphery two types of larger containers would be used: large 10m3
containers in the areas with easy access, and 2.5 rn containers in the areas with steep roads or
otherwise difficult access. The large containers would be strategically located near communal activity
areas of the bairros of which their are 24. In addition one of the lOi' containers would be placed at
each of the two hospitals and six markets. The trucks for these containers would also be operated in
two 8 hour shifts, which would allow them to collect twelve containers per day, leaving a clean as they
remove the full ones. Assuming a 75 % level of efficiency again this would require three trucks, and a
total of 33 containers of lOmn. In the bairros of difficult access smaller 2.5m3 containers would be
used in a similar way. As in the case of the larger containers, the system would depend on the active
participation of the community, organized through the sanitary and health education campaign. These
containers would be serviced by specially adapted four-wheel drive Land Rover type vehicles, leaving
and empty container and removing a full one. An estimated twenty of these containers would require
two vehicles. While the larger containers would be taken direcdy to the dump, these smaller ones
would be offloaded into one of the lOid containers thus allowing up to twenty trips a day.
8.     Dwm!p. The Lobito dump can continue to be used for a long time. It is recommended
however that a bulldozer be used to compact the trash and cover periodically with layers of earth. In
addition, it is recommended that the dump be enclosed by a cyclone fence for safety reasons. In the
case of Catumnbela the dump by the river must be closed down and cleaned up. It is recommended that
with a FmaM amount of earthworks a satisfactory site can be opened in Chiule. The sa  procedures
used in Ienguela would apply for the Catumbela dump. At this stage no recycling is yet foreseen,
given the lack of demand by industries.
9.     Street Cleaning. Street cleaning efforts today are very inefficient, due to the lack of tools and
equipment, poor management, and lack of motivation of the work force. Two methods are again
2



Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
proposed, one for the built-up downtown areas, and one for the bairros on the periphery. The built-up
city will be divided into eighteen zones to which a brigade made up of groups of five workers will be
permanently assigned. Each group has a leader. Two inspectors will draw straws for which zones
they will visit and evaluate with a points system. The winning brigades will be rewarded on a weekly
basis. Workers will be given two bright orange coveralls a year for which they will be responsible.
Each group will also receive two wheeled containers, five brooms, two shovels and one rake, for which
they are responsible. Street cleaning in the bairros would be organized on the basis of cooperatives of
twenty workers who live in the neighborhood. The DPSC would provide the cooperative with tools
and coveralls, and pay them for the street cleaning on the basis of an agreed schedule. The DPSC
would also inspect their work, and reward them or not for the work done. The payments for the work
of the cooperative would be revised periodically to keep up with the evolution of minimum wages. The
waste collected by the groups would be deposited in the containers serviced by the municipality.
10.    Maintenance Garage. The maintenance garage in Lobito is adequate, after some
rehabilitation and the installation of new equipment, to house a facility that would serve both Lobito
and Benguela as a central repair garage for the conurbation. Aside from a maintenance truck carrying
out minor repairs on the road, a tow truck would haul in broken down vehicles from anywhere in the
conurbation. The existing facility in Benguela would be upgraded to provide periodic maintenance,
lubrication, washing and tire repair.
B.    IBE-NGUELA
11.    Current Situat. The city of Benguela has a population of about 300,000, of which about
65,000 inhabitants live in the built up city center and the balance live in the periphery. The city of
Benguela, while facing many of the same problems of Lobito, is a lot cleaner. While waste collection
and street cleaning is done regularly in the city center, very little waste actually ends up in the city
dump, about eight kilometers to the south along the road to Bahia Farta. Occasionally, the DPSC will
clean up dumps in the settlements in the periphery, only to see them fill again very quickly.
12.     Mgaization. The DPSC in Benguela is organized in the following Departments: Cleaning
and Hygiene; Sanitation; Parks and Green Areas; Road Maintenance; and Markets. There are 403
employees of which 170 work directly in waste management and sanitation. About half of the
employees are women. Salaries are low (about NKz7,000 per month), and absenteeism sometimes
reaches 50 percent. Work is done in two shifts as in the case of Lobito. Workers gather every
morning at the offices of the DPSC and are given their instructions and then walk to the far corners of
the city to begin working.
13.    Eouioment. The fleet of the municipality consists of five working tractors with half ton
wagons; two water tank trucks for providing water to the periphery and two for watering parks; one
compactor truck (out of order); two IFA dump trucks (out of order); one working grader; one vacuum
truck for cleaning septic tanks (which is rented and serves both Benguela and Lobito).
14.    Waste Generation. The estimated waste generated by the population of the city center,
assuming 250 grams per capita per day, is 16.25 metric tons, while the periphery generates an
estimated 30 tons, assuming a production of 150 gmms per day per capita. In addition street cleaning
generates about three tons per day in the city center. Finally, the seven markets produce about six tons
per day as well. Industries dispose of their own waste and the two hospitals incinerate theirs.
3



Page 4 of 4
15.    Proposd Slution. A similar solution to that of Lobito is proposed for Benguela: 800 liter
containers in the city center and 10ln3 containers for the periphery. There isn't the problem of the
steep or difficult access to some bairros that there is in Lobito so the 2.5 m3 containers and 4 wheel
drive vehicles wont be needed here. It is estimated that 80 containers of 800 liters and two 12m3
compactor trucks would be required for the downtown area, and twenty containers of lOmi3 plus two
trucks would be required for the peripheral bairros and markets. Street cleaning would be organized as
in Lobito.
16.    Waste DjsgWS. In order to continue to use the existing tractors and wagons, it is
recommended to establish a trans-shipment station at Casseque with a ramp that would allow the tractor
to unload directly into a lOi3 container. This would then be tansported to the dump the dump at
Katengue eight kilometers away, which can easily be used for several more years. The existing
bulldozer would prepare access roads, move earth, compact garbage and cover in layers.
17.    Comyot Costs. The total cost of the component is estimated at about USS 2.9 million,
primarily for equipment, including US$300,000 for the rehabilitation of the central maintenance garage
in Lobito. The budget for technical assistance (US$1.3 million) is shown separately under institutional
development. Itemized costs for all components are shown in Annex 6 Detailed Project Costs.
18.    Cost reovsa would be achieved through the gradual introduction of garbage collection fees
and charges for emptying of septic tanks and for the disposal of waste at the municipal garbage dumps.
Beginning in January 1991, the DPSC began to charge a fee for garbage collection in the served
downtown areas. The fee of NKzI00 is collected together with apartment rental payments that are
made at the local branches of the Banco Popular de Angola. The technical assistance for the solid
waste management component will include a study to determine a fee structure and methods of
collection for the different levels and types of service provided, with the objective of covering recurrent
expenditures of the system. The proposed rate structure will be agreed upon during the mid-term
review.
19.    Proiect Linkes. Linkages between the solid waste management component and the
environmental and sanitary education program are described in Annex 3 Low Income Sanitation.
Additiona information on DPSC is provided in Annex 12 Institutional Background.
4



Annex 5
Page 1 of 6
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
AND
KEY INDICATORS



Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
LOBiTO-BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Inplementation Plan
A. Crdit
1. Credit Negotiations                                                      10/24/91
2. Board Presentation                                                       12/19/91
3. Signing of Credit Agreement                                              01/15/92
4. Credit Effectiveness                                                     03/30/92
B. Construction Works
1. Pre-Qualification & Bid Documents                                        11/30/91
2. World Bank approval of Pre-Qualification Bid Documents                   12/15/91
3. Letter of Invitation by gPP                                              01/01/92
4. Receipt of Proposals by GPP                                              03/15/92
5. Evaluation of Proposals and remittance to World Bank                     04/15/92
6. World Bank approval of Proposals                                         05/01/92
7. Negotiations                                                             05/15/92
8. Contract Signing and Mobilization                                        06/01/92
9. Start Civil Works                                                        07/01/92
10. Leak Detection                                                          03/15/93
11. Completion of Civil Works                                               07/30/98
C. Studies and Consultants
1. Environmental Studies (21 months)                                        07/01/92
2. LRGIS (09 months)                                                        07/01/92
3. Water and Sewer Tariffs and Institutional Reorganization (09 months):
.Approval of Bid Documents (TOR/Draft Contract/Short List)              11/30/91
.Letters of Invitation                                                  12/15/91
.Bids In                                                                02/15/92
.Bid Evaluation                                                         02/29/92
.IDA no Objection                                                       03/15/92
.Negociations and Signature of Contracts                                03/31/92
.Preliminary Tariff Report                                              07/15/92
.Preliminary Reorganization Report                                      07/30/92
.Interum Tariff Report                                                  10/15/92
.Interim Reorganization Report                                          10/30/92
YFinal Tariff Study                                                     01/15/93
.Final Reorganization Study                                             01/31/93
4. Signature of Contract for Project Key Personnel                          03/30/92
D. Other
1. Provincial Govemment Water Tariff Despacho                               12/31/91
2. Second Interim Water Tariff                                              01/01/93
3. Mid-Term Review                                                          09/30/93
4. Project Completion                                                       12/31/98
2



Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
EY  INDICATORS-
19m                   am                                                 19aia
3rd    lh   fi    2nd lw    d    43    la    Za   3kd    aS        I     2nd
Q     Q      Q      Q     Q      Q      Q     Q      Q      Q     Q      Q
LORITO . WATER
*    1.4       WELL REHAB (4)             2     2
*    1.        WELL PL!.IPING (1H)        2     3      3      3     I
1.6      P0n4INc STAT. 7                   2      2     2      1
1.7       NETWORK REHAI.                   M .    40%   30%
I.S      NETWORK EAN.               *      20%   20%   25%   25%   10%
*    1.9       STANDPIPES O)              Is    40    t0   7n    75    35
*    1.ao      WAIER METERS(S'PIPES)            30    60    75    75    G0
*              *   CONVRES(I)                   20   4J    60    6         de    60    (BY EPA)
1.11      LEAK DETECTION                   10%   30%   10%   10S   10%   10%   10%   10%   10%   10%
SANITARY SEWERS
2.2       COMP.REHAB.NETWORK        20%   50%   30%
2.4        * REBUILD PM   STA              50%   50%
*    2J        CONMERCL NETWORK           10%   20%   20-   2U%   25%
*    2.6       CAPONTE NETWORK                   0%   30%   30%   20%
2.3       COMPIO NETWORK                   20%   30%   40%   10%
*    2.7       PLMPaG ST.EE 9101                       10%   50%   40%
2.S       FORCE MAIN                       *      *      50%   50%
*    2.        SEWAGE LAGOON                           10%   50%   40%
*    2.10      RESCOM CONNECTIN           *     100   20    200   200   (76 BY EPAS)
BENGCELA * WATER
*    1.4       WELL UEHAS ()              2     3      3
*    IS        WELL PIJl4lNG(S            I     2      2
1.4       PUMPING STAT. (2)                2
-.7       NETWORK REHAB.                   30%   40%    30%
I.J       NETWORK EXPAN.                   20%   40%   30%   10%
*    .9     STAN41DUIMU(S0)            to    25    a       48    a5    30
*    1.10      WATE3MEtERS(S'PIP)               lo    40    50    50    40
*              r  * COMJRES(20)                 20    40      s     so    33    10 (BIY E
1.11      LEAK DETECTION                   10%   10%   13%   I0%   too   too   10%   l0%   10%   10%
9ENGLE,LA -SANITARY SEWERS
*    Li        GRAVITY SEWIE  NTWWlK      10   U2    30%   33%   10%
*    2         PUMrG STAT. 12             *     .       01%    SW 
2.4       FORCQ MAINE                *                   s%    50%
*    2.        SEWAGE LAGOONS                   *      .       S    SW
*    2.7       RESICOMIIND CONN  R              200   43    43    30    (30BY ViAN)
VALA DO CBRINCE .  C   DRAINAGE
3.1       CIIANNIL OUNl.t            low
3.2       CHANNL LIGU                7f%   30%
3.3      NnwUSGNW   )                I     I
3.4       VELOCAtC DA (              2     I      *      a     3      I      (y LCD)
4.0       ALTO LU3I33A V1STA
4.1       VELOCITY ICK              .     .      .      4      4     3      4      1o    to    *       4      10
RETENTI DAM1B (94                                                                             (BY LCB)
4.2       SIDC TUIRACS OI                                t o 1  10    4      2      to    13    4       a      t0
RAVINES & GULUC  (a)                                                            (BY COMMUNITY ACrION
3



|                                     Il|l  |Annex 5
IS:i;  Page 4 of o
33~~~~~~~~~~~~~_Q 
a0                                   a0Z
4~~~~~~~~!I.



ii-i
%iE T                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 5 ofAne  6
CHS'~~~~~S
1    l  X   i    03~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5



Annex S.
Page 6 of 6
ANGOLA
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Tinetable of Key Project Processing Events
1. Time taken to prepare:             24 months
2. Prepared by:                       IDA (AF6IN and AF3IN)
3. First IDA mission:                 Reconnaissance - January 1989
4. Identification mission:            May 1989
S. Preparation missions:              October 1989, February, May 1990
October, 1990 and February 1991
6. Appraisal mission:                 May 1991
7. Negotiations:                      October 1991
8. Planned Effectiveness:             March 1992
IDA Staff. Consultants and Others Involved
1. Reconnaissance:     Messrs. Sam and Chavez, AF6IN, Brismninn, SIDA, Sund, NORAD.
2. Identification:     Messrs. Chavez, AF6IN, Tannerfeldt, SIDA, Downs and Echeverria,
Consultants.
3. Preparation:        Messrs. Chavez, AF61N, Tannerfeldt, SIDA, Brandberg, Day, Downs,
Echeverria, Gammon, Gatuellas, Ladd, Pazner, Shluger, Vidal-Ribas,
Wright, and Mesdames Austin, Overton and Lara-Resende, Consultants.
4. Appraisal:          Mr. Chavez, AF6IN, Ms. Genta-Fons, LEGAF, Mr. Tannerfeldt, SIDA,
Messrs. Brandberg, Echeverria, Ladd, Pazner and Ms. Lama-Resende,
Consultants.
5. Reviewers:          Messrs. Menezes, Beardmore. Lead Adviser: Mr. Gattoni.
6. Project preparation:  Financed by a Trust Fund established by SIDA and NORAD, and managed
by IDA.
7. Managing Division Chiefs: Messrs. Sam and Blanc.
8. Managing Director: Mr. Aguirre-Sacasa.



Page 1 of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLES



Annex 6
Page 2 of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule 1.       SLUMARY PROJECT COSTS (USS Niltion)
Percent
Local  Foreign   Total  Total  Foreign
1. ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION                         $4.94   $21.24   $26.18    44X       81X
A. Water Rehabilitation                           1.44     8.16    9.60      16       8S
S. Sewr Rehabilitation                            1.18    6.70      7.88     13       8S
C. Storm Drainae Works                            1.74     4.06    5.80      10       70
0. SolId Waste Collection & Disposal              0.58     2.32     2.90      5       80
11. LOW INCOME SANITATION                            $1.55    $2.37   $3.92       7K      60
A. Improved Latrines                              1.08     1.72     2.80      5       61
B. Sanitary Education                             0.15     0.48     0.63      1       77
C. Urban Revegetation                             0.32    0.18      0.50      1       35
111. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT                       $0.59    $8.08    58.67      15X      93
A. Technical Assistance                           0.31     5.45     5.76     10       95
B. Training                                       0.04     0.34     0.38      1       90
C. Acbinistrative/Logistical Support              0.25     2.29     2.54      4       90
IV. STUDIES                                          $0.16   $6.13   $6.29       11X      98
A. Engineering Design I Supervision                 -      3.49     3.49      6      100
B. Water & Sewer Tariff & Reorgeniz. Study          -      0.67     0.67      1      100
C. GIS/Land Registration Study                    0.08    0.31      0.39      1       80
D. Envirosrental Mgt & Monitoring Study           0.08     0.70     0.78      1       90
E. Other Studies                                           0.95     0.95      2      100
V. TOTAL BASE COST                                  $7.24  $37.83   $45.06      77X      84X
Physical Contingencies                            0.99     3.81     4.80      8K      79
Price Contingencies                               1.45     7.56     9.01     15K      84
VI. TOTAL PROJECT COST                               $9.68   $49.20   $58.88   1O0X       84K
Schedule 2.       FINANCING PLAN CUSS MLilion)
Percent
Local  Foreign    Total   of Total
IDA Credft                     $3.38   $42.20   $45.58       77
NORAD Grant                       -      3.50     3.50        6
SIDA Grant                               3.50     3.50        6
Goverrent                      $6.30       -    $6.30        11
Total                          $9.68   $49.20  $58.88       100
Schedule 3.       ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS (USS Million)
FY93     F194     FY95     FY96     FY97  FY98    Totat
Cofinwncing                     4.92     2.08        -        -        -            7.00
IDA                                     5.81    10.52    13.15      7.89  8.23    45.58
Government                      0.63     0.94     1.26     1.57    0.94  0.94       6.30
Total                           5.55     8.83    11.78   14.72      8.83  9.17    58.88
Percent                          9K      15K      20K      25K      15K    16X     100l
IDA Cumulative                     -    5.81    16.32    29.47   37.36 45.58
Percent                          -       13X      36K      6SK      82X   1OOX



Annex 6
Page 3 of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ScheduLe 4.       CALCULATION OF PRICE CONTINGENCIES (USS Million)
Disbursement (IDA+CoF)          $4.92    $7.89   510.52   $13.15    S7.89  S8.23   S52.58
Disbursement (Govt)             $0.63    $0.94    S1.26    $1.57    $0.94  $0.94    $6.30
Cumutative                      $5.55   $14.38   $26.16   $40.88   S49.71 $58.88
Factor (3.9% per Annum)         1.039    1.080    1.122    1.165    1.211  1.258
Price Conting./Annum            $0.22    $0.70    S1.43    $2.43    $1.86  $2.37    $9.01
Price Conting. -Cumwlative      $0.22    $0.92    $2.35    S4.79    S6.65  $9.01
19.99%
ScheduLe 5.       PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(USS Million)                                        Percent
Local  Foreign    Total  TotaL  Foreign
Works                                              $5.77   $18.92   $24.69      42%       77%
Goods                                               0.82     6.50      7.32     12%       89%
Technical Assistance                                0.31     5.45      5.76     10%      95%
Design, Supervision, Studies                        0.16     5.38      5.54      9%       97%
Training                                            0.18     0.82      1.00      2%      82%
Total Base Costs                                   $7.24   $37.07   $44.31      75%       84%
Physical Contingencies                              0.99     3.81      4.80      8%       79%
Price Contingencies                                 1.45     7.5i;    9.01      15%       84%
Refinancing of PPF                                           0.7r;     0.75      1%      100%
$9.68   S49.09  $58.88    100%        84%



Annex 6
Page 4 of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule 6.                  PROJECT COST SUMMARY
ALLOCATION BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(USS Million)
Percent
Local  Foreign    Total  Total  Foreign
WORKS                                                   S5.77   S18.92   S24.69      42%       77%
Water Rehabilitation                      ICB       1.44     8.16      9.60     16        85%
Sewer & Storm Drainage Rehab.             ICB       2.14     8.94    11.08      19        81%
Erosion Control                           LCB       0.78     1.82      2.60      4        70%
Building Rehab.                                     0.83        -      0.83      1
DPSC - SWM                           LCB        0.58        -      0.58
Office-GPP/EPAB/DPSC                 LCB        0.25        -      0.25
Low Income Sanitation                               0.59        -      0.59      1         -
Latrine Program                      FA         0.44        -     0.44
Urban Revegetation                   FA         0.15        -     0.15
GOODS                                                   S0.82    S6.50    S7.32      12%       89%
Vehicles & Equipment                                   -     4.12      4.12      7       100%
Solid Waste Management               ICB           -     2.32     2.32              100%
Low Income Sanitation                ICa           -     1.07      1.07             100%
Automobiles (Project Mgt)            ICB a               0.73     0.73              100%
Materials-Low Income Sanitation                     0.82     0.82      1.64      3        50%
Latrine Program                      LCB        0.64     0.64      1.29              50%
Urban Revegetation                   LCB        0.18     0.18      0.35              50%
Logistical Support                                     -     1.57      1.57      3       100%
Office Equip. & Supplies             LCB           -     0.99      0.99             100%
Telephone Equipment                  LCB           -     0.36     0.36              100%
Housing-Furniture & Equipment        LCB                 0.22     0.22              100%
CONSULTANTS                                             $0.47   $10.83   $11.30      19%       96%
Technical Assistance                    OTHER       0.31     5.45      5.76     10       95%
Design & Supervision                    OTHER                2.74      2.74      5       100%
Studies                                 OTHER       0.16     2.64      2.80      5       94%
TRAINING                                     OTHER      50.18    $0.82    S1.00       2%       82%
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                        $7.24   $37.07   $44.31      75%       84%
Physical Contingencies                             $0.99    $3.81    $4.80       8%       79%
Price Contingencies                                $1.45    $7.56    $9.01      15%       84%
REFINANCING OF PPF                            NA            -    $0.75    S0.75        1%     100%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                     S9.68   S49.19  S58.88    100%         84%



Annex 6
Page 5 of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule 7.               PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS Million)                                                  Percent
of
Project Elements                ICB     LCB    other                    NA         Total   Total
UUU.u3u U........ monsoon UUUUUsU  UUUUUUU                    .        gu.Su     Samoans *am.u--
I WORKS
a) Water Rehabilitation      12.96                                               12.96
(11.02)                                             (11.02)    21X
b) Sewer & Storm Drainage   14.96                                                14.96
(12.07)                                             (12.07)    23X
c) Erosion Control                   3.51                                         3.51
(3.14)                                       (3.14)     6X
d) Bultding Rehab. (1)               1.12                                          1.12
(1.00)                                       (1.00)     2X
e) Low Income Sanitation (2)                   0.79                               0.79
(0.71)                             (0.71)      1K
2 GOODS
a) Vehicles & Equipment       4.56   1.00                                         5.56
(4.56) (1.00)                                       (5.56)    11K
b) Materials                         2.22                                         2.22
1O99)                                       0. 99)      4X
c) Logistical Support                2.11                                         2.11
(2.11)                                       (2.11)     4K
3 CONSULTANTS
a) Technical Assistaneb                        6.91                               6.91
(6.54)                             (6.54)    12K
b) Design & Supervision                        3.44                               3.44
(3.44)                             (3.44)      7X
c) Studies                                     3.35                               3.35
(3.17)                             (3.17)    6K
4  TRAINING                                       1.20                                1.20
(1.08)                             (1.08)      2X
5  REFINANCING OF PPF                                                   0.75         0.75
(0.75)       (0.75)      1K
TOTAL                       132.47  S9.96   S15.70                  S0.75       S58.88
(S27.64)(S9.25) ($14.94)                (0.75)      (152.58)   100O
53K    18K      28X                    1K          100O
Notes:
(1) Repafr of DPSC workshops and GPP, DPSC, and EPAB offices.
(2) Latrine fabrication and urban revegetatlon by DPSC force account.
(3) Figures In parentheses are amounts to be financed by IDA and Co-Financing.
(4) Cost figures include contingencies.



Annex 6
Page 6 of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule 8.       PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS - SUMMARY BY CATEGORY
(USS Million)                                             Percent
of
ICB     LCB    Other                  NA          Totat  Total
======  3====== 3======                =======     ======= =3=z,==
SUB TOTAL WORKS            $27.92  $4.63                                       $32.54
(S23.08)($4.14)                                    ($27.22)    52%
SUB TOTAL GOODS             $4.56  $5.33                                        $9.89
(S4.56)(S5.11)                                     (S9.66)    18%
SUB TOTAL CONSULTANTS                       $14.50                             $14.50
(S13.86)                           ($13.86)    26%
TRAINING                                      1.20                              $1.20
(1.08)                            ($1.08)     2%
REFINANCING OF PPF                                                  0.75        S0.75
(0.75)      ($0.75)     1%
TOTAL                      $32.47  $9.96   S15.70                  $0.75       S58.88
(S27.64)(S9.25) (S14.94)               ($0.75)     ($52.58)   130%
53%    18%      28%                    1%         100%
Schedule 9.          DISBURSEMENTS UNDER IDA CREDIT AND CO-FINANCING
.USS Million)
Total                            Percentage of
Amount                             Expenditures
Category                                          Allocated                          to be Financed
1 Works                                          S20.71
a)  Water Rehabilitation               $8.16                                    100% of Foreign
b)  Sewer & Storm Drainage Rehab        8.94                                    100% of Foreign
c) Erosion Control                      2.34                                    90% of Total
d)  Building Rehab                      0.74                                    90% of Total
e)  Low Income Sanitation               0.53                                    90% of Total
2 Goods                                           $7.16
a) Vehicles & Equipment                $4.12                                    100% of Foreign
b) Materials                            1.48                                    90% of Total
c)  Logistical Support                  1.57                                    100% of Total
3 Consultants                                    $10.83
a)  Technical Assistance               $5.45                                    100% of Foreign
b) Design & Supervision                 2.74                                    100% of Foreign
c)  Studies                             2.64                                    100% of Foreign
4 Training                                        $0.90                           90% of Total
5 Refinancing of PPF                              S0.75                           Am     Mt Due
6 Unallocated                                    S12.23
Total                                      S52.58
Total Base Costs                                    $40.35
Physical Contingencies                                4.16
Price Contingencies                                   8.07
$52.53
..=. s



Annex 6
Page 7 of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Schedule 10.              SCHEDULE OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(US$000)
Long   Short                                       man/
Term    Term                                     Months     Rate   Amount
1            GPP   Technical Coord.    Firm       36      $S1     s6W8
2            GPP   Financial Cont.      Firm      36      $s18    S648
1    GPP   Procurement Adv.    Firm      12       520     $240
1    GPP   GIS Advisor         Indiv      6       $12      $72
1    GPP   Other GIS                                       $63
3           EPAB   Network Manager      Firm      36      $18     S648
4           EPAB   Engineer             Firm      36      S18     S648
5           EPAB   Financial Cont.      Firm      36      $18     $648
6           DPSC   Operations Ngr       Firm      36      S18      5648
7           DPSC   Workshop Mgr         Firm      36      S18     S648
8           DPSC   Sanitary Eng/Ed.   Indiv       36      S12     $432
9           DPSC   UNV-San.Ed.          Indiv     36     S2.5       $90
10           DPSC   UNV-Const.Superv   Indiv       36     $2.5      $90
1   DPSC   Sanitary Eng.        Firm     12       $20     $240
10       4   Total Technical Assistance           390            S5,763
Schedule 11.    ADMINISTRATIVE & LOGISTICAL SUPPORT
(USSOO)
Amount
No     Rate Foreign      Local
A.  Automobiles                                      20      $25      $500
B.   Telecommunications Equipment                                     $250
C.   Office Furniture & Equipment                                     $850
D.   Housing Allowance (Furn. & Appliances)          10      $15      5150
Sub-Total                                                   $1,750
E.   Spare Parts (15Z)                                                $263
F.   Supplies (3 years a 10Z per annum)                               S525
Total Achinistrative & Logistical Support                   S2,538



Annex 6
Page  8 of 15
LOW INCOME SANITATION PROGRAM
DETAILED COST TABLE
Latrines & SanItary-Environmvntal Education (LSE) and Urban Revegetetion (RVG)
R a t e          T o t a l         (USS000)
No  M/M  USSOO  NKOOO   NKOOO  USS000         Local   Foreign      TOTAL         TOTAL
DPSC Staffing                                                                                           $732
LSE-Coordinators   3  108              30   3,240      -            54                    54
LSE-Prom./Traini   2   72              25   1,800      -             30                  30
LSE-San.Unit Hea  20  720        -     20  14,400      -           240                  240
LSE-Sanitation A  30 1080        -     15  16,200      -           270          -       270
RVG-Coordinator    1   36        -     30   1,080      -             18                   18
RVG-Unit Heads     4  144        -     20   2,880      -            48          -         48
RVG-Crew           10  360             12   4,320      -             72         -         72
Vehicles & Equipment                                                                                  $1,071
LSE-Latrine/Sanitary Education Program                  466                   466       466
RVG-Revegetation Program                                358           -       358       358
Spare Parts (30%)                                       247                   247       247
LSE-Construction Operations                                                                           $1,288
Cement, Raw Materials                                 1,120           -     1,120      1,120
Operation & Maintenance                                 168           -       168        168
LOW INCOME SANITATION BUDGET                 43,920   $2,359         $732    $2,359    $3,091         $3,091
Technical Assistance (Separate Budget)                                                                  $852
Resident Advisor   1   36   $12.0                      $432                  $432      $432
Short Term Advis   1   12   $20.0                       240                   240       240
UN Volunteers       2   72    $2.5       -              180           -       180        180
Training & Promotion (Separate Budget)                                                                  $625
Group/Community/On-The-Job                             $250        $50       $200      $250
Promotional & Training Materials                        300          60       240       300
Travel Expenses                                          75          15        60        75
Schedule of Vehicles & Equipment
Unit
Vehicles & Equipment          Cost     LSE       RVG        l.SE       RVG     TOTAL
Vehicles
Water Trucks (10,000 L)   $50                  3          -      S150       $150
Trucks (3 Ton)              30       4         2        120        60        180
Pick Up Trucks              20       7        3         140        60        200
Tractors                     5       8        4          40        20         60
Motorcycles                  3      20         -         60          0        60
Total                            39       12
Equipment
CacimbasIPumps             $14                 3          -       S42        $42
Wheelbarrows               0.2      30         6          6          1         7
Molds & Tools                                           100         25       125
Total Vehicles & Equipment                                 S466      $358       $824
Spare Parts (30%)                                       S140      $107       $247
T   I *'  j-l-- 0 - ,;                  -. I                           ''        nA71



COST SUMMARY                                Annex 6
WATER & SEWER REHABILITATION                        Page g of 15
STORM DRAINAGE - VALA DO CORINGE'
($000)
I.  WATER REHABILITATION                                                   $9,600
A. LOBITO WATER SUPPLY                                       $5,400
1. WELLS - [Production Levelt 24,000 M3/day-1995]          1,110
2. TREATMENT PLANT                                           360
3. PUMPING STATIONS - Pumped to Zones 4-9                    200
4. RESERVOIRS                                                100
5. WATER MAINS                                               990
6. DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                                    1,190
7. SERVICE CONNECTIONS (METERED)                             250
8. STANDPIPES                                                900
9. REPAIR EXISTING SYSTEM                                    300
B. BENGUELA WATER STYPPLY                                    $4,200
1. WELLS - [Production Level:         M3/day-1995]           870
2. TREATMENT PLANT                                           220
3. PUMPING STATIONS-TO ZONE lA, lB. & BAIA FARTA             300
4. RESERVOIRS                                                 40
5. UATEr MAINS                                               820
6. DISTRIBUTION NETWORK                                      900
7. SERVICE CONNECTIONS (METERED)                             250
S. STANDPIPES                                                600
9. REPAIR EXISTING SYSTEM                                    200
II.  SEWER REHABILITATION                                                   $7,880
A. LOBITO SANITARY SEWERS: 42,000 Population                 $3,900
1. COMPAO/CAPONTE SEWER NETWORK                            2,180
2. HOUSE CONNECTIONS                                         450
3. PUMPING STATIONS                                          550
4. PUMPING MAINS                                             270
5. LOBITO TREATMENT PLANT-OXIDATION POND                     450
B. BENGUELA SANITARY SEWERS: 34,000 Population               $3,980
1. SEWER NETWORKS                                          1,850
2. HOUSE CONNECTIONS                                         790
3. PUMPING STATIONS                                          300
4. PUMPING MAINS                                             680
5. BENGUELA TREATMENT PLANT-OXIDATION POND                   360
III.  STORM DRAINAGE WORKS                                                   $5.740
A. LOBITO                                                    $2,560
1. SEWERS                                                    260
2. CHANNELS                                                  300
3. RETENTION DAMS                                          2,000
4. STRZUT REHABILITATION/GUTTERS                               -
B. BENGUELA                                                  $3,180
1. SEWERS                                                    120
2. CHANNELS                                                2,640
3. RETENTION DAMS                                            420
4. STREET REHABILITATION/GUTTERS 



LOBITO BENGVELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Annex 6
Page lOof 15
W -LOG.WKI
ADMINISTRATIVE AND LOGISTICAL SUPPORT
VALOR
MEDIO
SUPORTC ADMINISTRATIVO/LOGISTICO        QUADRO  A.T.  TOTAL UNITARIO    TOTAL
uuauinminmminW                          u.=m= wu,.m  in=mmm ..=mm    ,.mm.
A.  AUTOMOVEIS                              10     10     20  $20,000    $400.000
GPP-Benguela                             3      3      6
EPAB-Lobito                              1      1      2
EPAB-Benguela                            2      2      4
DPSC-Lobito                              2      1      3
DPSC-Benguela                            2      3      5
B. EQUIPAMENTO DE TELECOHUNICACAO
TELEPONE SATELITE                                                     $124,000
WALKIE TALKIES                          25     11     36   $3,500    $126.000
GPP-Benguela                             5      4      9
EPAB-LobLto                              5      0      5
EPAB-Benguela                            5      3      8
DPSC-Lobito                              5      0      5
DPSC-Benguela                            5      4      9
C.  EQUIPAMENTO DE ESCRITORIO (RELACAO ANEXA)                             $850,000
GPP-Benguela                       *                      $250,000
EPAB-Lobito                        *                     $150,000
Er%B-Benguela                                            $150, 000
DPSC-Lobito                        *                     $150,000
DPSC-Benguela                                            $150,000
D.  HOUSING - REPAIRS/FURNITUREIAPPLIANCES         10     10  $25,000    $250,000
D.    SUB-TOTAL                                                         $1,750.000
S.    PECAS SOBRESSALENTES (152)                                          $262,500
Y.   MATERIAL DE CONSUMO (3 years I 102year)                             $525,000
C. TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE AND LOGISTICAL SUPPORT                          $2,537,500
-rn--rn



Annex 6
Pagellof 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
LB_EQESC .WK1
DESENVOLVIMENTO INSTITUTIONAL
VALOR
KX-REP                    MEDIO
EQUIPAMENTO DE ESCRITORIO   PAGE  QUADRO  AT  TOTAL UNITARIO   TOTAL
mmrnuminwmumin    inminma *-=mmM _--            =mn=    mm= =  =in3n in
GPP                                      12    4      16
FURNITURE                                                                     $51,600
Executive Desks (820)                  4    4       8    $625     $5,000
Ezecutive Chairs              71       4    4       8    $300     $2,400
Visitors Chairs               71      12    4      16    $300      $4,800
Computer Workstations         36      12    4      16    $300      $4,800
Workstation Chairs            85      12    4      16    $200      $3,200
Tall Storage Cabinets          3       1    4       5  $1,600      $8,000
Side Filing Cabinets          95       6    4      .0  $1,000    $10,000
Fireproof Save                93       1    1       2    $900      $1,800
Small Confeence Tables         S            2       2    $800     $1,600
Conference Chairs             62            12     12    $300      $3,600
Miscelaneous                          12    4      16    $400      $6,400
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT & PRINTERS             4    4       8  $6,000              $48,000
HELIOGRAPHIC COPIER                                    1 $10,000              $10,000
COPIER/FAX EQUIPMENT                      1    1       2  $5,000              $10,000
DRAFTING EQUIPMENT                        2    1       3  $3,000               $9,000
KITCHEN EQUIPMENT                                                              $5,000
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL INSTALLATION (6 ROOMS-140 H2)          $3,000              $18,000
GIS COMPONENT                                                                 $79,000
UNALLOCATED                                                                   $19 .400
TOTAL                                                                     $250,000
.n...a.m



Annex 6
Page 12 of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SC-BENGUELA i LOBITO
PROGRAMA DE LIXO
PROGRAMAS LATRINA & MAT. DE CONSTRUCAO
VALOR
KK-REP     QUADRO                MEDIO
EQUIPAHENTO DE ESCRITORIO   PAGE   BENG.  LOB.  AT  TOTAL UNITARIO   TOTAL
.mm_- ................ -.r  ...n  -="  ==mm _na=mi               m    i.===m=
SERVICOS COMUNITARIOS-BENGUELA            a     8    4      20
FURNITURE                                                                           $81.600
Executive Desks (820)                  8     8    4      20    $625    $12.500
Executive Chairs              71       8     8    4      20    $300      $6,000
Visitors Chairs               71       8     8    4      20    $300      $6,000
Computer Workstations         36       4      4    4     12    $300      $3,600
Workstation Chairs            8S       4      4    4     12    $200      $2,400
Tall Storage Cabinets          3       2      2    4      8  $1,600    $12,800
Side Filing Cabinets          95       4     4    4      12  $1,000    $12,000
Fireproof Safe                93       1     1    1       3    $900      $2.700
Small Conference Tables        5       2     2    2       6    $800      $4,800
Conference Chairs             62      12    12   12      36    $300    $10,800
Miscelaneous                           8      8    4     20    $400      $8,000
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT & PRINTERS             4      4    4     12  $6.000              $72,000
TOPOGRAPIA W   GEODESIA                   1      1           2 $10,000              $20,000
HELIOGRAPHIC COPIER                       1      1    -      2 $10,000              $20.000
COPIERIFAX EQUIPMENT                      1      1    2      4  $5,000              $20,000
DRAFTING EQUIPMENT                        4      4    2     10  $3,000              $30,000
KITCHEN EQUIPMENT                         2      2    -      4  $3,000              $12,000
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL INSTALLATION (MI)    90   120           210    $210              $44.100
TOTAL                                                                           $299,700



Annex 6
Page 13 of 15
ANGOLA
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
WATER & SEWER TARIFF AND INSTITUMONAL REORGANIZATION SrUDIES
ESTIMATED COSTS (USS)
30 Man/Months 0 S18,000                                   S540,000
10 Round Trip Air Fares @ 55,000                            50,000
Local Travel (Luanda-Benguela) 3 trips 0 S800                2,400
Communications 10 Mondis a $400                              4,000
Report Printing                                              5,000
Vebicle - 4 passenger Toyota Pickup Track (GPP)
Vehicle Operation and Maintenance (GPP)
Pe Diems - 60 Manweeb (420 Days) @ SlS0/day                 63,000
Miscelaneous
Total



Annex 6
Page 14of 15
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING STUDIES
ESTIMATED COSTS (USS)
MAN/MONTHS             33    18,000     594,000
INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL 6        5,000      30,000
LOCAL TRAVEL           8       800       6,400
COMMUNICATIONS         33      200       6,600
REPORTS AND MAPS                         10,000
COMPUTER AND PRINTER 1        6,000      6,000
MONITORING EQUIPMENT                     15,000
VEHICLE:
ACQUISITION           1      20,000    20,000
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                (GPP)
PER DIEM:
LONG-TERM            630      100      63,000
SHORT-TERM            180     150      27,000
MISCELANEOUS                             5,000
TOTAL                                   S783.000
Per
ASSUMPTIONS:                      MM  Trip  Dianm
LONG-TERM CONSULTANT              21   2    630
SHORT-TERM CONSULTANTS
LEGISLATIVE ASSISTANT            4    1      60
HYDROLOGIST                      2    1      30
BASELINE SM SPECIALIST           2    1      30
COASTAL MANAGEMENT SPEC.         4    1      60
TOTAL                             33   6    810



GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMAAND REGISTRATION STUDY
,BUDGETS dSOOO
No    Rate  Loci    Forefn   Amt  Line Item    Tota
GEOGRAPH!ALmAT                                                                    $3N SYSTE  35.5
TECHNICL ASSISTANCE                                                       $134.7
GIS Consutant (6 rps yas)             6 $12.000            $72.0   $72.0
Per Diems                           180     150             27.0    27.0
GIS Technician                                              20.2    20.2
GIS Programmer                                              15.5    15.5
LOCALSTAFF
Ful Time GPP Empoyee                  3    $600   $64.8            $64.8   $64.8
ADMUN STRATIVE & LOGISTICAL SUPPORT                                        $79.0
Computer Equpmt (Add'I Hardware & Software)                $30.0   $30.0
Ste Preparation                                             13.0    13.0
Suppies (36 months @ US$1,000)       36   1,000             36.0    36.0
TRAINING                                                                   $57.0
Air Fare                              6  $5.000            $30.0   $300
Per Dlems                           180     150             27.0    27.0
LAND REGISTRATION STUDY                                                           $392.8
Project Director                      9 $18.000           $162.0  $162.0
Programmer nalyst                    4.5  15,000            67.5    67.5
Local Staffing (3 Persons @ 9 Months)  27   600   $16.2             16.2
Computer Equipment                                          28.5    28.5
Software                                                     6.0     6.0
Air Travel (Round Trips to Lobito)    5   3.000             15.0    15.0
Per Diems (Lobito)                  270     150             40.5    40.5
Air Travel (Round Trips from Lobito)  3   3,000              9.0     9.0
Per Dems (Overseas)                  45     180              8.1     8.1
Supplies                                                    40.0    40.0
TOTAL GIS & LRS                                   $81.0  $647.3  $728.3          $728.3
a- x
ulo'



AnnU7
Page 1 of 3
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS



LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIROWENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
EPAB - FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS - 1991 PRICES
_  C(USS Mitt ioms).uu
V A R I A B L E      WA T E R       T A R I F F
MATER PRODUCED           WATER CONSUMED                                                           (US Cents per Cubic Meter  f Marginal Cons4wption)
(000 N3)                 (000 N3)                CAPITAL COST      O&N  TOTAL
W/OUT    WITH   PROJECT  U/CUT    WITH   PROJECT                         COST  COST        928 Cents      932 Cents      936 Cents      940 Cents       944 Cents
YEAR PROJECT PROJECT INCREMNTPROJECT PROJECT INCREMI NT   FOR. LOC. TOTAL   (7.52)             Incwse  NCF    Income  NCF    Income  NCF   Income NCF    Income  KCF
1  1991  4,687   4,687         0   3.515   3,515         0       -     -      -       -                 -        -        -     -   -   -      -   -   -        -
2  1992   4,687   4,687        0   3,515   3,515         0    2.80  0.70 3.50    0.26 3.76         0.00 -3.76     0.30 -3.76      0.00 -3.76     0.00 -3.76     0.00 -3.76
3  1993   4,687   7,446    2,759   3,515   5,585    2,070    4.20  1.05  5.24    0.66  5.90        0.58 -5.32     0.66 -5.24      0.75 -5.15     0.83 -5.07     0.92 -4.98
4  1994   4,687  11,169    6,482   3,515   8,377    4,862    5.59  1.40  6.99    1.18  8.17        1.36 -6.81     1.56 -6.62      1.75 -6.42     1.94 -6.23     2.16 -6.01
5  1995   4,687  14.892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7.654    1.40  0.35  1.75    1.31  3.06        2.14 -0.92     2.45 -0.61     2.76 -0.30      3.06  0.00     3.40  0.34
6  1996   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14      2.76  1.44     3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
7  1997   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
8  1998   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14      2.76  1.44     3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
9  1999  4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                           1.31  1.31      2. 4  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
10 2000   4,687  14,892   10,20'   3,515  11,169    7,654                           1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
11  2001   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
12 2002  4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                            1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
13  2003   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2109
14  2004   4.687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
15  2005   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
16  2006   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
17  2007   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.4       3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
18  2008   4,687  14,892   10.205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.^6  1.75     3.40  2.09
19  2009   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
20  2010   4,687  14,892   10.205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44    3.06  1.75       3.40  2.09
21  2011   4,687  14,892   10.205   3,515  11,169    7.654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14     2.76  1.44      3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
22  2012   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14      2.76  1.44     3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
23  2013   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14      2.76  1.&4     3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
24  2014   4,687  14,892   10,205   3,515  11,169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14      2.76  1.44     3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
25  2015   4,6S7  14,892   10,205   3,515  11.169    7,654                          1.31  1.31      2.14  0.83     2.45  1.14      2.76  1.44     3.06  1.75     3.40  2.09
VARIABLE RATES OF RETURN ON INWVESTNENT (ROI):        -0.08X          2.92X          5.52X           7.88X         10.34X
ASSUMPTIONS:
ACTUAL PRODUCTION        ACTUAL CONSUMPTION               CAPITAL COST           COST SAVINGS (ALTERNATE INVESTMENTS)
(000)                    (000)           (USS Nillions)                             (Not Considered)
K3/HR  N3/DAY   M3/YEAR  U3/HR  %3/DAY   U3/YEAR         UATER REHAB.  9.60         CFB
LOBITO       300    7200    2,628      225    5400    1,971         SEWER REHAB.  7.88         SOMANGOL
BENGIELA     235    5640    2,059      176    4230    1,544         ENG. D & S       -         ITALIAN PROJECT (BF)
PHYS.CONTING.   -         OTHER
TOTAL                     4,687                     3,515           TOTAL        17.48                                 0.00                                          oQ C
o



Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Alternative Costs of Water Supply
Affordability Analysis
CUnserviced Households)
Cubic                  US$
Actual ConsumptIon           Liters   Meters         NKz    U8O0
...........  ........... .    .. .  ......  ... ...... ........ ..
Per Capita/Day (Est.)            10
Household of Six/Day             60                  100
Household of Six/Month         1800      1.8        3000     3.75
Vendor Price per Bucket (30 liters)                   50     0.06
Vendor Price/Cubic Meter                            1667     2.08
Standpipe Consumption
,..................
Per Capita/Day (Est.)            30
Household of Six/Day            180                   63
Household of Six/Month         5400      5.4        1901      2.38
Stondpipe Price per Bucket (30 liters)                 11     0.01
"Econmuc Rate"/Cubic Meter                           352      0.44
The Actual Consumption calculation shows that a family of six, presently buying two buckets
of water per day at NKz5O per bucket, or lSS 2.08 per cubic meter, is consuming a sub-minimum
10 Liters per person per day.
The Standpipe Consumption calculation shows that the same family, paying the "economic rate'
of US$0.44 per cubic meter, could triple Its consuwption at a fraction (about 63X) of prior
cost. This increased benefit would be possible as the proposed "economic rate" of water,
converted into Kwanzas at NKz800 per USS, is only 21X of current vendor prices.



Annex 
Page 1 of 9
LOBITO-BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABIL1TATION PROJECT
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GMS)
A.    OBJECTIVES
1.     The Geographic Information System (GIS) is a desktop computing facility for processing, using and
printing digital maps and images. The proposed GIS is a user friendly, high-tech, low cost tool, which is
intended to asrist local authorities to inventory, plan, msanage, and monitor the urban and environmatal
rehabilitation project as well as other investments. The GIS is a spatial information management tool that will
be used in land registration, project management, and cost recovery. The GIS will operate on spatial databases
to provide basic modem relational database management and use, as well as basic digital mapmaking, image
processing and modern map use. Its outputs are database reports, graphic and presentational data. The
information is accessed both in digital form (on screen) and by generating hardcopy printouts.
2.     There are four objectives for the GIS component of the project:
a) The GIS will be used for a study to design and implement a Land Registration GIS (LARGIS)
prototype system in support of taxation management for overall project cost recovery.
b) The system will be used to prcvide technical support as part of the Institutional Development
program for the Environmental Sanitation and Low Income Sanitation components. The GIS will also
be used for environmental mapping for the Environmental Management and Monitoring Studies.
c) To continue GIS training throughout the life of the project as part of Institutional Development.
d) To generate educational, promotional and information products on land registration, taxation and
GIS. The materials will be disseminated in subsidized form and on a cost-recovery basis as
appropriate.
B.    DESCRIPTION
3. GIS Preparation. Preparation of the GIS component started early on in the life of the project; the
need for up-to-date maps and images was made particularly clear during the June 1989 Identification Mission.
SPOT satellite data was acquired and processed digitally with the assistance of a GIS consultant prior to the
October 1989 Preparation Mission. GIS work was performed on and between the October 1989 Prepation
Mission, the May 1990 and January 1991 pre-Appraisal Missions, the May 1991 Appraisal Mission, and
through preparation of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) in June 1991. The work included instaton of
equipment, spatial data acquisition and processing, development of appropriate tools and methods, training,
hardcopy imagemap production, and documentation. Specifics on this work are provided in the paragraphs
below. The GIS project preparation consultant was financed initially, tirough the SIDA and NORAD Project
Preparation Trust Fund, later on by the World Bank's Project Preparation Facility, and with support from a
CIDA Trust Fund for Canadian consultants. The following details what was achieved prior and up to to
appraisal:
1



j                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 8
Page 2 of 9
4.     Sgatial Data Acquisition. Digital spatial databases were created using SPOT 20 and 10 meter
resolution satellite data for the entire conurbation and environs. The prime use cf the 10-and-20 meter SPOT
data is to provide imagemaps of the conurbation at a regional scale. SPOT data may be also be useful on an
occasional basis for natural hazard impact assessment, eg. following widespread catastrophic events such as
severe large-scale flooding. A set of 1:15 000 air photographs from 1987 providing partial coverage of the area
were scanned in at 150 dots per inch (dpi), yielding a resolution of approximately 3 meters. A digital mosaic of
enhanced air photos was created for the city of Benguela. The more appropriate spatial resolution for urban
rehabilitation mapping purposes in musseques is in the plus or minus 1 meter cell resolution range. Thoe erial
photos comprise a data source of prime importance. Local and overseas-produced (by consulting firms) map
resources were identified, accessed, and where possible, acquired.
5.     Spatial Data Processing. Relying primarily on the MAP II GIS software package. In this capacity the
GIS served as a decision support tool for various mission specialists during and following World Bank missions
to Angola in 1989, 1990 and 1991. The GIS software and the SPOT database were particularly useful for
preparing the water supply and distribution component. Laminated mosaics of LaserWriter satellite data output
proved to be extremely useful low-cost desktop computing products.
6.     HardcopX Production. Hardcopy image maps were generated using Apple LaserWriter printers from
the digital satellite and air photographs at various scales. Multi-page outputs were manually cut and pasted into
mosaics which could then be lamninated. Using photocopying techniques, 30 hardcopy sets of maps of the
spatial database were produced, of which 20 brought to Angola and distributed (15 sets in Lobito-Benguela and
5 in Luanda). The image maps were used for locating and planning purposes on and between preparation
missions to the field. Some of the sets of photocopies were laminated, a process which extends their lifespan.
7.     Development of Specialized Hardware Configuratiory. A Portable GIS System was configured and
tested in a developing country context. The system consists of devices that are 110/220V switchable. The key
piece is a Macintosh Portable which always operates as an uninterrupted power supply (UPS) device.
Peripherals include a portable rugged hard disk, a tape backup device, a scanner and a portable ink-jet printer.
8.     Custom software tools were develooed. An 'ImageMap Viewer" was written in HyperCard
permitting a user to navigate and view the Spatial Database for the area at various levels of detail and display
scales. A "Histogram* desktop assessory was created to enhance the data in the spatial database during a data
preprocessing stage. A software Compass was implemented to permit the use of a portable cormputer as a
digital plane table for basic field mapping (eg. locating ground control points).
9.     Development of Agpropriate Technigues. Various geographic imaging techniques were developed
and put to use, for example the scanning of hand-held 35mm camera photographs of hard-to-obtain maps; (ii)
the subsequent generation of a 3-D model of terrain information captured in (i) above. Additional techniques
are in the process of being developed. These include a general-purpose relational database for managing
spatially-keyed information, basic line-drawing mapmaking techniques, and an easy-to-use interface in
HyperCard to a limited set of querying and drawing capabilities. The resulting database and map systems are
intended to be used in conjunction with a physical neighborhood/street/house addressing system which is being
designed for land registration and taxation.
10.    Evaluation of Software Packages and Expermentation included the following:
a) An experimental Thematic Electronic Atlas was compiled, demonstrating that it is possible to link
2



8-8
Page 3 of 9
the information in a database to maps and images. FILEVISION i-a Visual Information System
somewhat similar to HyperCard was used.
b) An extensive experiment with cadastral information mapping, storing, querying and analysing was
conducted using the MAP II raster GIS and based on scanned air-photo data.
c) A transparency was used to transfer spatial data from air photos to the satellite files using MAP II
on-screen tracing tools. This experiment took place in Lobito, Angola. The traced transparency was
scotchtaped to the screen of the portable computer and the satellite image was displayed on the screen
at a matching scale and alignment. The traced areas on the tmansparency were trasfered to the
computer image file using screen tracing tools. Area measurements were obtained from this
information for planned and spontaneous settlement in the Catumbela area.
d) Large format color maps that are not available outside of the country were photographed. The
developed prints were scanned using a 32-bit full-color scanner. Once this information is brought into
MAP II, thematic data from these maps (e.g. land use types) can be automatically separated as
individual layers, creating a GIS spatial database which can then be processed in numerous ways for
visualization, data management and analysis purposes
e) Other packages evaluated included MapGraphix, MapMaker, LandDesign, HyperCard, 4th
Dimension.
11.    Creation of GIS Faclitv. Computer equipment for the GIS component was procured, configured,
tested, instaled, and made operational at the GPP in Benguela, Angola. The equipment includes a Macintosh
SI/30, a Portable Macintosh, a Macintosh LC with a 12W 16 gray-tone monitor, two portable ink-jet printers, a
B&W scanner, an 80 MB portable external hard disk and a tape-cartridge Tape Backup device.
12.    Demonstrations and Presentations. Demonstrations and presentations in Africa, at Bank headquarters
and other locations were given on the GIS tools, techniques, and applications that are used in the project. Two
public wo1kshops were given at The World Bank, one in December 1989 and the second in December 1990.
13.    Training. Training in the use of the computer equipment was provided during three of the project
Preparation missions. General topics were taught such as basic system operation, word-processing, spreadsheet,
drawing programs. Selected professional staff were also provided training on GIS oriented topics, including:
connecting offline digital spatial database devices, accessing and retrieving images, viewing the images and
using them for presentation and communication of spatial information, and for simple mapping by employing
on-screen digital tracing techniques.
14.    "Simgle Cownputi r Technigues for Maps. Air Photos and Satellite knages". A publication by
Roberto Chavez (of the World Bank), Micha Pazner and Nancy Thies (both at the University of Western
Ontario) is currently in preparation as a World Bank Technical Paper. It documents a set of techniques useful
for those requiring spatial data input for decision support and project preparation rnd management. They wae
developed and implemented for the GIS component of the World Bank Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental
Rehabilitation Project (Angola). A 1-page description of this publicaion is attadced.
15.    Fawiliarization. Familiarization with the requirements, resources (physical, human) and constraints
for the GIS component resulting in several documents on file.
3



Amnex8
Page 4 of 9
C.     IMPLEMENTATION
16.    GIS system should be housed in an appropriate facility at the Gabinete Provincial do Plano (GPP) in
Benguela, be comprised of computer hardware and software, and operated by trained personnel. The tasks for
the GIS facility ame defined within the scope of four primary objectives as outlined below.
a) Land Registration. The GIS will be used for a 2-year study, contracted to a Land Registration and
GIS firm, to design and implement a Land Registration GIS (LARGIS) prototype system. The objective of the
proposed study is to develop a comprehensive Land Registration GIS (LARGIS) prototype that includes a
physical addressing scheme and a land registration system. The specific use of LARGIS in the project is as a
axation tool, ie. for project cost recovery. A more general utility extends to overall project management. For
example, base maps that are generated for the LARGIS (using the GIS) can be used in environrmental and
rehabilitation operations.
17.    The new designs for land registration and environmental mapping methods will be tested in pilot test
areas. The Bairro do Massangarala (in Benguela) and a canyon in Bella Vista (in Lobito) are proposed as likely
test areas for the spatially-keyed relational database for land registration (cadaster), and for mapping latrines and
other sanitation and environmental themes. Massangarala has potential for popular (ie. community)
participation, while canyon settlements in Bela Vista are instances of neighorhoods that are subject to erosion
problems and flood hazards.
18.    The system should be designed around two main elements: a (relational) Database Management System
and an Automated Mapping System. The Database System will be spatially-keyed and used for the management
of demographic, infrastructure, and other attribute information from templates. For instance, Groupe Huite in
Paris, France has worked on addressing systems and data templates using the 4th Dimension relational database
system. The spatial data is rppresented in the database in propositional rather than in graphic form-similar to
bus schedules, telephone directories, etc. The Mapping System will be used for creating and using a digital
survey fabric consisting of base maps at several scales: cadastral, musseque, and small scale environmental
maps. More details are pruvided in the report entitled: "Toward a Modern (and Simple) Information
Management System".
19.    b) Technical Support. The GIS system will be used to provide technical support as part of the
Institutional Development program for the Environmental Sanitation and Low Income Sanitation components.
The GIS will also be used for environmental mapping for the Environmental Management and Monitoring
Studies, ie.: Environmental Diagnostic, Environmental Action Plan, and Environmental and Project Monitoring
studies. This objective can be achieved to some extent by continuing with proven project mapmaking efforts:
i. Completion of the digital air-photo portion of the spatial database; create additional digital
mosaics and continue to scan air photographs both at 150 dpi for 3 meter resolution data, and
at 300 dpi for 1.5 meter data. Maps and 1987 aerial photos will be entered and processed in
order to create the large scale spatial databases for subareas of the region. This work involves
scanning, formatting, enhancing, creating mosaics and subscenes, printing, manual
cut-&-paste, photocopying, laminating and digital archival and indexing.
ii. Continued work on environmental mapping (eg. latrines and sanitation) with popular
participation.
4



Annex 8
Page 5 of 9
20.    The primary map output of the GIS is based on spatial databases from which enhanced, marked,
measured, analyzed and otherwise processed images and maps are produced. The database and hardcopy
output, along with the GIS, give a decision support capability for planning, managing and monitoring activities.
Examples of GIS outputs are:
i. Printouts made at will of custom thematic maps at various scales.
ii. Incorporation of scanned air photos, digital layers of mapped information (e.g.: drainage,
roads, infrastructure, boundaries, etc.) and satellite data into coherent and accessible spatial
dataustzs.
iii. Area measurements, e.g., of new spontaneous settlement from satellite data, air photos or
from field survey.
21.    c) Training. Training will be provide-d abroad as well as in Angola. The LARGIS study
subcomponent calls for Land Registration application-oriented GIS training. Instructors will be recruited by the
GPP from Angolan sources, through the GIS consultant and through the Land Registration firm.
22.    d) Education. To generate educational, promotional and information products on land registration,
taxation and GIS. This includes documenting, writing and publishing informational material on the land
registration and GIS applied and development work. This objective can be achieved by capitalizing on the
Desktop Mapping/Publishing capabilities inherent in the GIS facility. The informational products could be
disseminated to and through interested agencies within the community on a collaborative or cost-recovery
contractual agreement basis. The product line of this "GIS store' could include pamphlets, T-shirts, small
imagemaps, full size maps, reports, articles, etc. To be disseminated in subsidized form and on a
cost-recovery basis as appropriate. The materials could be displayed in display cases (eg. at or next to a
proposed library). This type of initiative promotes a sense of identity and ownership.
23.    Recnmmendations. 'o achieve the above objectives, it is recommended that the following be
implemented:
a) That an appropriate permanent facility for the GIS be set up as a condition for component
implementation and installation of additional equipment. The facility should be in good condition:
painted or whitewashed, clean, well furnished, have electricity and air conditioning (for both staff and
equipment), and be well protected by bolt locks.
b) Completion of installation of computer hardware. Additional items to include a scanner, a color
personal computer and a laser printer. A photocopying machine, a paper cutter, and a machine for
laminating manual mosaics of laser printer output and multiple photocopies of this output should also be
procured. The overall equipment will include portable, black & white and color computers, external
hard disk and tape backup units, a laser printer and two ink-jet printers, a scanner, a photo copying
machine, a paper cutter, and a laminating machine. General office software will include project
management, word processing, outlining, spreadsheet, database management and drawing (CAD)
programs. GIS software will include grid-based (raster), vector and database management packages.
The GIS software will be further tailored to the precise needs of the project through the development of
custom tools and methods.
5



Annex A
Pa,, 6 of 9
c) That an external firm for Land Registration and GIS be contracted for designing and implementing
the Land Registration CIS (LARGIS) Study. The study is elaborated in a separate annex. The tenms
of reference for the LARGIS Study are provided as a separate document.
d) Th provision of guidance and supervision for the GIS component by a consultant-for 6 months
over the tlfe of the project. Technical support should be provided to the GIS facility to ensure it can
continue to function on a long-term basis. This is an integral part of tne overall goal. The consultant
will assist and supervise in designing and implementing the GIS component, including acquisition and
operationalizing (configuring, testing, trouble-shooting) of the equipment, creation and upgrading of the
spatial databases, developing custom software tools and methods and applications, and training of the
kIey GIS personnel. Draft Terms of Reference (TOR) for the GIS consultant are attached.
e) Tramiing will be provided abroad and in Benguela by the GIS consultant, by the firm contracted for
the land registration study, and by Angolan firms and individuals.
D.    COSTS (See Budget in Annex 6, Detailed Project Costs, Page 15 of 15)
E.     JUSTIFICATION
24.    Why Gl;? Under normal circumstances mapmaking and map use are not a matter of life and death-
their roles are usually less essential and dramatic. Not in this case; the project deals with an area where people
are dying daily from filthy conditions, lack of water, adequate nutrition, and disease. Logistical support to the
project in terms of mapping What is Where, and detecting changes in environmental sanitation, will undoubtedly
contribute to slowing the stream of funerals, many of them for snall children. In this region, the textbook case
involving mapping of residences where deaths have occurred along with potential sources of contamination is
applicable, relevant and important.
25.    The GIS is a project support tool. The Gabinete Provincial do Plano (GPP) is setting up 3 project
support groups: financial, legal, and technical. The GIS component comes in under the technical support
rubrick. Specifically, the GIS is a project support tool for modem basic digital map and image use. As such it
plays a comparable role and augments the standard ways in which conventional maps and images are used in
similar projects. The GIS system will be used to provide technical support as part of the Institutional
Development program for the Land Registration, Environmental Sanitation, and Low Income Sanitation
components. The GIS will also be used for environmental mapping.
26.    Which Personal Computers? The overriding consideration in selecting both hardware and software is
the potential for these tools to be used effectively in a resource-poor environment under harsh operating
conditions. For example, electrical power tends to be intermittent and surge prone. Environmental controls,
such as cooling and dust controls are limited or absent. The equipment chosen should meet the following
criteria:
a) Cost-both low absolute cost and value delivered for cost.
b) Versatility-as a way of maximizing value. For instance, a printer capable of producing both text
and graphics is preferable to one capable of text only.
6



Annei
Page 7 of 9
c) Dependability-equipment with a record of infrequent breakdowns and requiring minimum
maintenance. It is important that local personnel be able to do periodic maintenance and perform basic
troubleshooting without lengthy training.
d) User friendliness--tools which can be learned quickly and used easily. Ideally, local users can not
only quickly learn and use the equipment, but can soon be able to train others.
e) Tolerance of varying power sources and standards--equipment has to be surge tolerant. The ability
to run on an uninterrupted power supply (ie. on battery power) is also a plus.
E.     BENEFITS
27.    The benefits of the component were apparent during project preparation by providing up-to-date maps
and images to local authorities, Bank staff, and consultants, which contributed to project design and will
contribute to the ongoing management of environmental and sanitation components. The desktop mapping
capability of the component will also be conducive to modest direct cost recovery initiatives. Most significantly,
the GIS component will be used to develop a systemr. of land registration. 4s such, the GIS is expected to play
an important role in municipal and provincial fiscal mianagement.
7



Annex 8
Page 8 of 9
LOBITO-BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM (GIS) CONSULTANT
OBJECTIVES AND LEVEL OF EFFORT
Establishment of the Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project requires hiring a Geographic
Information Systems (CIS) Consultant on a part-time basis-for 6 months over the life of the project (3-5 years).
The GIS consultant will provide guidance and supervision for the GIS component of the project. He/she will
guide and supervise the operational, administrative, training and research activities of the project's GIS facility.
The consultant will asist in, and supervise the design and implementation of the GIS component, including
acquisition and operationalizing (configuring, testing, trouble-shooting) of the equipment, creation and upgrading
of the spatial databases, developing custom software tools and methods and applications, and training of key GIS
psonnel.
There are four objectives for the GIS component of the project:
1. The GIS will be used for a study to design and implement a Land Registration GIS (LARGIS) prototype
system in support of taxation management for overall project cost recovery.
2. The system will be used to provide technical support as part of the Institutional Development program for
the Environmental Sanitation and Low Income Sanitation components. The GIS will also be used for
environmentl nmapping for the Environmental Management and Monitoring Studies.
3. To continue GIS training throughout the life of the project as part of institutional development.
4. To generate educational, promotional and information products on land registration, taxation and GIS. The
materials will be disseminated in subsidized form and on a cost-recovery basis-as appropriate.
QUALIFICATIONS
Minimuml 3 years experience in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) applications and related university
degree are essential. Ability to carry out part of the work in a developing country setting. Good working
knowledge and experience with Apple Macintosh personal computers. Strong computing sldlls in one or more
of the following: GIS, remote sensing, computer cartography, field survey, cadastral applications, relational
dabas  systems. Command of the Portuguese language and good onld and written communication kills.
Motivated and interested in working in a developing country under difficult conditions. Must be willing to
provide training. Strong leadership, initiative and ability to supervise and provide guidance to a GIS team.
8



Annex 8
Page 9 of 9
REPRESENTATIVE DUTIES
1. Act as the CIS facility consultant. The consultant will provide technical support for, and supervise, the
design and implementation of the CIS facility, including acquisition and operationalizing (configuring, testing,
trouble-shooting) of the equipment, creation and upgrading of the spatial da abases, and developing custom
softwaro tools and methods and mapping applications.
2. Provide guidance in the mnain use of the GIS facility for establishing a Land Registration CIS application.
Coordinate closely the development of the Land Registration GIS system with the consulting firm contracted for
carying out an init> ..yea- study. See attached Annex on the Land Registration GIS and its terms of
reference.
3. Develop and mount GiS tr;;ning initiatives for key project personnel. Coordinate the GIS training with the
Land Registration training by the consulting firm contracted for the land registration study.
4. Promote the use of thu GIS facility for other applicat;-or .
S. Collaborate on popular participation mapping projects for Low Income Sanitation and for Environmental
Sanitation.
6. Help to initiate Information Services projects for receiving, creating and disseminating information with
interested agencies within the community on a collaborative or cost-recovery contractual-agreement basis.
7. Assist in the generation of promotional materials on GIS. The product line of this 'store' could include
pamphlets, T-shirts, small imagemaps, full size maps, reports, etc. To be disseminated in subsidized form and
on a cost-recovery basis--as appropriate.
8. Document, write and publish informational material on GIS applied and development work.
9. Create and promote strong linkages between the project and other activities and investments in the area.
9



Angola, Lobito-Bentiolha l Jrts.i F rivironmental Proj(oct t.pt)p
0                100               200 1)0{
600         '                                                             1 4 #-600
700                                                                          --700
Soo00
900   |                                                            i00
1000                                                                        -1000
9100                                       ,4,          f          ',, >        -1100
0                100               200               300
0       4        8 Kilometres  1:226772



Angola, Lobito-Bariguela Urban Environimontal priojn(t: Viovw  of I ONTO  (8I'4-i()T)
2000              2100               ;20 P.O. 0                           2'400              ?1.0 
700                                                                                                              -.700
g00                                                                                                                900
2000              2100               2200              2300 .             2400 2...                 0 0
0      900    1800 Melres  1:70866
~ I



@  File  Edit  Go  Tools  Objects  Font  Style                                               2:03:30 '
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. [
^~ .
- _                                    . .       Heu___-_-___________-_-____
D1sD1au loom Maps  image index                       Displatj Arnj Image  Oult



4  File  Edit Go Tools  Objects  Font Style                                        2:06:00
-O                                      Bottom Left ___
91'' ' '"' " """'"' "'' ' ' " "'-"' '' ' S S m ..................../
-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -   0                                                  9P
V~~~~~



Annex 9
Page 1 of 9
ANGOLA
LOBlTO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
EMPRESA PROVINCIAL DE AGUAS DE BENGUELA (EPAB)
REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP)
WATER & SEWER TARIFF AND INSTITUTIONAL REORGANIZATION STUDIES
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I.     INTRODUCTION
1.     The Water and Sewer Tariff and Institutional Reorganization Studies are integral elements of the Lobito
Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project, financed by the Government of Angola, the International
Development Association (IDA), and the international development agencies of Norway (NORAD) and Sweden
(SIDA). The major investment components of the project are the rehabilitation of the water and sanitary sewerage
networks of the two cities.
2.     This Request for Proposal invites a short list of selected pre-qualified firms to submit their Technical and
Financial Proposals, in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for Procurement of Consultants, to the Gabinete
Provincial do Plano de Benguela (GPP). The timetable for submission and evaluation of proposals is set forth in
the covering Letter of Invitation. Contract signature is a condition of credit effectiveness, scheduled for March
1992; and mobilization of the consulting team will *ommence immediately thereafter. The studies described herein
are expected to involve a total of 30 man/months of consultant inputs. The first of three visits to Lobito and
Benguela is scheduled for May, 1992; and all studies would be completed by January 31, 1993. It is anticipated
that one firm will be awarded a contract to undertake both the Water and Sewer Tariff and Institutional
Reorganization Studies described herein.
3.     The findings and recommendations of the reorganization and tariff studies constitute important inputs into
the decision-making process incorporated in the Water and Sewer Tariffs Action Plan (vara 15 and Aggendix 1) and
the Proiect Mid-Term Review (SAR para 3.38). Startup of Physical Works on rehabilitation of the water and
sanitary sewerage networks is scheduled for July 1, 1992; completion of Physical Work is scheduled for December
31, 1993; and the Project Mid-Term Review is scheduled to begin in September, 1993. Thus the consultant's final
reports and rocommendations will be available for review by the Provincial Government and the World Bank
approximately eight months prior to the Mid-Term Review.
4.     The primary objective of the Tariff Study is to assist the Government of the Province of Benguela to
establish economic tariffs for water and sewer services so that the full costs of investment, operation, and
maintenance of the rehabilitated systems can be recovered without recourse to subsidy.
5.     The primary purpose of the Institutional Reorganization Study is to assist the Provincial Govenment in the
establishment of an efficient service company capable of assuming operating responsibility for the rehabilitated
networks. To this end the Institutional Reorganization Study will assist provincial authorities in the design of the
reorganized entity, in an analysis of ownership and operating alternatives, and in the selection of appropriate
mnagement, technical assistance, and training inputs.
I



Annex
Page 2 of 9
6.     In addition, the study team will design and monitor a pilot program to test selected methods of organization,
billing and collection of water sold at standpipes in Lobito and Benguela, in accordance with the decisions taken
at negotiations (SAR para 3.15).
II.    BACKGROUND
7.     The Lobito Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project was first identified at the SATCC
Coordinating Conference in Luanda in January 1989 which reviewed the Development Plan for the Lobito Transport
System (the 'Lobito Corridor"). The Swedish and Norwegian delegations expressed interest in the rehabilitation
of Lobito and proposed that the World Bank, as executing agent, undertake project preparation and appraisal. A
Bank identification mission in June 1989 included both Lobito and Benguela because the two cities form an
environmental microregion and socio-economic conurbation. In April 1990 SIDA and NORAD created a Project
Preparation Trust Fund of SEK 6.8 million (US$1.2 million) to support the project. SIDA alsc provided an
Emergency Equipment Fund of SEK 10 million (SUSI.8 million) to provide short-term relief to the water and
sewerage systems. In May, 1990 the Bank approved a Project Preparation Facility of $750,000, and in July, 1991
following appraisal of the project the Provincial Government requested a second Project Preparation Facility to
ensure the timely completion of engineering studies and to provide for contracting of the Water and Sewer
Institutional Reorganization and Tariff Studies.
M.            PROJECT CONTEXT
8.     The problems facing Lobito and Benguela during the post-Independence period are largely a result of
deferred maintenance and substantial breakdown of the water, sewer and trash collection systems in the face of a
rapidly growing population. These problems have been exacerbated and compounded by a draining civil war. Since
1975 the population of Lobito-Benguela has nearly quadrupled to 800,000, while delivery of urban water and basic
sanitation services has diminished by as much as two-thirds. The result is that the cities are facing public health
and environmental crises of major proportions. Lack of water and basic sanitation have led to chronic outbreaks
of cholera, typhoid and yellow fever. Morbidity rates, i.e., the incidence of debilitating disease, have reached
alarming proportions, averaging 35% in the urban area; infant (169 per thousand) and child (325 per thousand)
mortality rates are among the highest in the world. Environmental degradation is manifested by other factors,
including pollution of wetlands, erosion, and desertification. Refugees from the interior continue to arrive, and with
peace the cities can expect further population pressure due to resettlement and development along the Lobito
Corridor.
9.     The newer urban populationhas severely over-burdened the infrastructure and public utlity systems. With
limited investment, severe shortages of replacement equipment and spare parts, and inadequate maintenance, the
basic urban services of water supply, sewerage, sanitation, and refuse collection are now in a critical state. The
well fields servinjg Lobito and Benguela are totally inadequate. Only three of twenty wells in Benguela are in
operation; nine will have to be abandoned. Only two of the four water pumps serving Lobito-Catumbela ten years
ago are now operating. Over 50% of the urban population receive no piped municipal water whatsoever. These
people rely on private water trucks selling water at exorbitant prices to meet m-rinimum daily needs.
10.    The sanitary sewer networks of the central residential areas are likewise inadequate and largely inoperative
due to lack of maintenance and investment. Rehabilitation will provide for about 42,000 people in Lobito and
34,000 in Benguela, less than 10% of the total population. Hence, there is an urgent need for a massive sanitary
latrine program to counter observed health hazards. A similar, though less precarious, situation applies to the
electrical grid and road network of the two cities. Thanks to the hilly topography most of the low-income residential
areas are well drained, although there are stagnant waters in the plains, and sanitation is in general deficient. The
management of increased volumes of solid waste is well beyond the municipalities' present capacity. The vehicle
fleet, 80% inoperative, is obsolete and has been largely cannibalized for spare parts. Consequently, there are
numerous spontaneous garbage dumps along roadsides, in gullies and vacant lots within the urban area.
2



Annex
Page 3 of 9
11.    Clean water and basic sanitation are critical in improving hygiene, health and general living conditions.
Even the caul visitor to the unplanned settlements of the Lobito-Benguela conurbation will be shocked by the lack
of water and sanitation, and by the open fields of human faeces. Cholera has been the most rcent killer with a
faccal-oral cycle of transmission, but other diarrhoeal diseases along with malaria and schistosomiasis point to the
urgent need for improvement in envirommental sanitation.
IV.    INSTITUTIONAL BACKGROUND
12.   In general the Comissariado Provincial de Benguela overshadows the municipal and local govermments
which are weak. As is the case throughout the country, administrative bodies at all levels were depleted of qualified
human resources after Independence. The main problems continue to be lack of managers and technicians at all
levels, lack of equipment and spare parts, low salaries, and excessive absenteeism. Among institutions there are
conflicts in jurisdiction and overlapping responsibility and authority. The state of disrepair of local infrastructuro
is partially explained by the centralized budgetary and financial management system in effect in recent yars. Lo
revenues were channelled entirely to the central government which made partial budgetary allocations to local
service providers.
13.    After Independence and until March 1990 the water (and electrical) authorities were provincial branches
of national parastatals. During the Portuguese colonial regime Servicos de Aguas do Benguela was one of the
multiple Departments of the extinct Camara Municipal de Benguela. In 1976 the Centro Provincial do Aguas
(CPA), the predecessor of EPAB, was created as a dependency of the Ministry of Construction. In 1980 CPA was
transferred briefly to the now extinct Coordenacao Provincial and again in 1980 to the Secretaria do Estado de
Habitacao, which administers state owned housing property. In March 1990, in consonance with a partial movement
toward decentralization, operating control of local water companies and water authorities was transferred to the
provincial governments.
14.    Rents, tariffs, user charges and taxes are in general very inadequate. Rents of state-owned apartments and
houses are token, and distorted by the exchange rate system. Rents for two and three bedroom houses or apartments
are fixed at NKz2000 and NKz2500, US$33-42 per month at the official rate of NKz60/dollar, and only US$2-3
per month at the unofficial rate of NKz800/dollar. Water tariffs have not changed since Independence in 1975
despite an underlying rate of inflation of about 20% per annum. They remain fixed at NKzlO per cubic meter of
estimated consumption, about US$0.16 at the official exchange rate, but only about a penny at the unofficial market
rate. There is at present no sewer tariff, nor was there one in Angola under the previous regime. Ihe Government
has recognized the problem of low rents and tariffs in recent financial and economic adjustment plans, but much
remains to be done. It will be the task of the proposed Water and Sewer Tariff Study to help the Government
determine equitable and viable tariffs for the various categories of beneficiaries from the rehabilitated and expanded
systems.
15.    Water and Sewer Tariffs Action Plan. A proposal has been pending for over one year to double the
present rate to NKz2O per e3. Preliminary indications from the financial and economic analysis of the project,
however, are that the proposed rate increase, based on the official rate of exchange, is artificial and quite
inadequate. During negotiations a Water and Sewer Tariffs Action Plan was agreed, which is attached to these
Terms of Reference as Appendix 1. The agreed underlying principle is that tariffs will be revised annually to
reflect the true economic cost: a) of the existing water networks; and b) of the rehabilitated and expanded water
and sewer networks. True economic costs are defined as full costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement,
converted at a realistic exchange rate. The exchange rate, in turn, is defined as a Reference Value taken as the
approximate average of the official and unofficial exchange rates (NK400 as of October 1991). Based on these
principles, a first interim water tariff of NK53 per rn3 was agreed, which is 5.3 times the present rate, to become
effective January 1, 1992 upon ratification by the Provincial Price Commission and the Provincial Govemment.
The agreement calls for a second interim water tariff, at least equal to 80% of the breakeven cost at the prevailing
Reference Value for the dollar, to become effective no later than January 1, 1993, based on the findings of the
studies financed under the credit (parm 2.24). Subsequent tariff reviews would be scheduled during the mid-term
project review to take place approximately 18 months after the date of credit effectiveness (parm 3.36).
3



Annex9
Page 4 of 9
V.    THE PROJECT
16.    The Lobito Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project consists of the following basic
components:
a) Envirormental Sanitation, including rehabilitation of the water and sanitary sewerage networks; tho
solid waste management systems; and the storm drainage networks;
b) Low Income Sanitation, including major improved latrine and sanitary education programs and a small
urban revegetation component;
c) Institutional Development, including technical assistance and training for Provincial implementing
agencies responsible respectively for the operation and maintenance of the provincial water and sewer systems
(EPAB); solid waste management; low cost sanitation, sanitary education, and building materials programs (DPSC);
and overall planning, project management, and monitoring (GPP). Administrative and logistical support to the
project includes acquisition of vehicles, telecommunication and office equipment, supplies, and spare parts for
project use.
d) Studie, including detailed engineering design and supervision of the water, sewer, and storm drainage
components; and the following area-specific studies: a water and sewer tariff and institutional reorganization study;
an environmental management and monitoring study; and a geographic information system and land registration
study. The project would also finance annual audits of project accounts, and studies for the design and preparation
of follow-up projects in the infrastrcture sector, identified during project implementation.
VI.    WATER SUPPLY
17.    Since Independence the urban population of Lobito and Benguela has nearly quadrupled during which time
there has been no expansion nor real maintenance of the water supply network. As a result nearly 80% of the
population have no house connections today and nearly 50% have no water within one kilometer. Those that can
pay have to purchase water from private suppliers at exorbitant prices. The objectives of this component are to
rehabilitate the present networks and to double the water supply in both cities to cover the entire urban area. Public
standoines and washbasins will extend the municipal water service to all squatter settlements.
18.   In Lobito installed capacity will be increased to 1,000 m3 per hour via installation of a new wellfield along
the Catumbela river, connected to the existing treatment plant, a new chlorination station, and a new 500 mm
transmission main feeding the existing 500 mm main to Lobito, Bela Vista, and Alto Lira. Pumping stations and
reservoirs will be relocated and refurbished to provide storage capacity of over 50% of daily production. The
rehabilitated network is designed to supply 75-100 liters per capita to those with house connections. A network of
300 standpipes will provide 25-30 liters per capita to the squatter settlements. Each standpipe with four taps and
laundry facilities would serve about 150 families (800-1,000 persons) within a maximum walldng distance of 200
meters.
19.   In Benguela the existing wellfield is surrounded by residential and industrial buildings with little potential
for expansion. Nominal capacity is 470 m3 per hour; however, output is less than one third. Only three wells,
drilled after 1980, are operating. Nine non-functioning wells will be abandoned and eight others will be
rehabilitated be cleaning, video inspection, repair, well head improvement, testing, and disinfection. A new
wellfield with a design capacity of 500 m3 per hour would be constructed along the Cavaco River aquifer consisting
of six new wells and two observation wells. Final engineering exists ior a second phase 500m3 per hour flow to
double present capacity. The treatment plant is designed to remov t iron and manganese from the water, but water
quality is satisfactory with no harmfil pathogens. Therefore, thot first phase does not include expansion of the
treatment plant. Water demand in 1990 is calculated at 760 m3/hour in Benguela plus 63 m3/hour in nearby Baia
Farta which receives less than a third of its needs. An Italian grant prugram parallel to the Bank-financed project
4



Annex 9
Page S of 9
will finance the Baia Farta extension. Increased production for greater Benguela of 1000 m3 per hour corresponds
to demand projected for 1995. The capacity of the main pumping station would be doubled and a new rising main
of 400 mm would be provided to the rehabilitated reservoir. In the near future a new transmission line from the
new wellfield to the local airport will be required along with new reservoirs to serve the expansion areas and Baia
Farta. A network of 200 standpipes and wash basins would be provided for the squatter settlements on the
periphery of Benguela in a similar pattern to the Alto Lira and Bela Vista programs in Lobito.
VII. SANITARY SEWERAGE
20.    Under the project full management responsibility of the sewage network, including operation, maintenance,
and cost recovery wopuld be transferred from DPSC to EPAB. Management of the treated effluent from the
lagoons would be shared between the provincial water company, EPAB, and the Provincial Directorate of
Community Services (DPSC).
21.    The construction and replacement of new sanitary sewer networks for the built up commercial and
residential zones of both cities will be coordinated to ensure that the gravity networks and pumping stations are in
place and connected to the force mains and completed sewage lagoons before the full supply of water is turned on.
This requirement is necessary to prevent further overflow and backup of the sewage network.
22.    Lobito - the rehabilitation of the Compao gravity network will start simultaneously with the start of the
water supply works three months after contract signature, i.e., July 1, 1992. At the same time work on the new
gravity sewer network and pumping station for the Commercial Zone and Caponte wilU begin. Sewer network
construction is scheduled for completion in one year to coincide with completion of the fuUl water supply hook up.
Elevations of the Lobito sewage network are at or below sea-level; thus the effluent will be pumped throughout the
network. The existing pumping stations must be rebuilt and two new pumping stations added with emergency power
generators to prevent sewage overflow in the event of power failure.
23.    Revuel - The task in Benguela is easier since the city enjoys a gradual sloping toward the beach from
an elevation of 31 meters at the municipal airport, two kilometers inland. Only one pumping station and a short
force main are required within the central city. The majority of the sewage network flows by gravity to the main
pumping station on the south side of the Vala do Coringe, 2.7 meters below the present grade. Ihe main gravity
sewer line must be completed before the concrete lining machine for the Vala do Coringe channel reaches that
location, at the bridge to Baia Farta. Demolition and replacement of the bridge must also be completed before the
gravity main is installed. The six month construction schedule for the Vala do Coringe must also be coordinated
with the rainy season which ends in April and begins in October.
5



Annex
Page 6 of 9
VIII. LEVEL OF EFFORT AND TIMING OF INPUTS
24.    A study team comprised of one financial economist (9 months), one management engineer (9 months), one
financial analyst/management consultant (9 months), and one training expert (3 months) will be mobilized for a total
of 30 man/months over a 10 calendar month period to conduct the Water and Sewer Tariff and Institutional
Reorganization Studies. The timing of the studies would coincide with overall water and sewer investment
milestones of the project. In addition, the consultant's Interim Tariff Report, to be delivered in October 1992, wiln
provide the technical basis for tariff review by the Provincial authorities and for the establishment of the second
interim tariff revision, effective January 1, 1993, in accordance with the Water and Sewer Tariffs Action Plan
agreed at negotiatons (Appendix 1).
IX.   SCOPE OF WORK
25.    The statement of objectives in I. above is amplified in the following notes, which may be expanded or
refined at the time of award of the contract or later, as deemed appropriate by the Provincial Goverment or by the
World Bank, in the interest of sound institutional and policy development and optimal investment strategies.
26.    THE WATER AND SEWER TARIFF STUDY. The consultant should pay particular attention to the
following considerations in developing recommendations for an equitable water and sewer tariff structure in the
Lobito Benguela area:
Cost recovery over the economic life of new assets built and acquired under the project investment program
(See Detailed Project Costs, SAR Annex 6);
Valuation and cost recovery of existing installations, which are substantially depreciated;
Separate cost and revenue centers for the Municipal Water Divisions of Lobito, Benguela, and other
provincial water service authorities;
Separate water tariffs for households and large commercial and industrial users, e.g. Sonangol, Caminho
de Ferro de Benguela, the Port of Lobito, the Cement Company; the fish processing industries of Benguela
and Lobito; etc.;
Separate sewer charge to households, commercial, and industrial users connected to the sanitary sewer
network;
Design, installation, and monitoring of a pilot Rrogram to test selected methods of organization, billingand
collection of metered water at some 500 new standpipes and community laundry facilities to be installed
in outlying squatter settlements (SAR para 3.13);
Possibilities of cross subsidy in the water tariff charged to consumers in the squatter settlements;
Operating costs of an efficient reorganized Provincial Water Company; and
Maintenance costs for the new and existing water and sewerage networks;
27.    THE INSTITUTIONAL REORGANIZATION STUDY
The consultant shall pay particular attention to the initiatives of the Provincial Govemrnent with its own
resources to hire key people and to undertake diagnostic and remedial measures to reorganize the Provincial
Water Company. A preliminary diagnostic report of management is attached at Annex 5.
The Provincial Government has made available expanded office space in Benguela and in Lobito to house
6



Annex
Page 7 of 9
the reorganized water company; and the Project provides adequate funds to acquire vehicles and office
equipment under the reorganization and to make necessary repairs to office facilities.
As part of the reorganization study the consultant should explore fully and make recommendations as to
alternative ownership and management options. Among options to be considered are possible divestiture
and privatization, leasing of facilities to a private operator, and continuance as a state-owned and operated
public utility.
The IDA Credit includes a substantial budget for the provision of Technical Assistance to EPAB, estimated
at 108 man-months of expert mnanagerial assistance, including the provision of two management engineers
and a financial controller. The Provincial Government and the World Bank are interested in the
consultant's independent findings and recommendations as to the most efficient, cost effective, and viable
alternative for the ongoing operation of a reorganized EPAB, with specific recommendations as to the need
for and adequac., of the proposed technical assistance and for alternative means of procurement of such
expertise, either through direct hire, or via procurement from an experienced consultant or operating water
company.
In this regard the consultant will be expected to outline a proposed recommended organization of the
municipal services of Lobito, Benguela, and other municipalities in the Province, including a detailed
'blueprint' description of management and financial accounting and reporting systems to be implemented
with technical assistance in the next operational phase of the company.
28.    THE STANDPIPE PILOT PROGRAM
In addition, the study team will design and monitor a pilot program to test selected methods of
organization, billing and collection of water sold at standpipes in Lobito and Benguela, in accordance with
the decisions taken at negotiations (SAR para 3.15)
7



Annex  9
Page 8 of 9
Appedix I
Page I of 2
Lobito Bensuehll Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Proiect
Water and Sewer Tarif,'s Action Plan
1.     During the negotiations of the above-referenced credit, the following water and sewer tariffs action plan
was agreed concerning section 3.04 (a)(ii)(A) and section 6.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement. The
general underlying principle is that tariffs will be revised to reflect the true economic cost: a) of the existing water
networks; and b) of the rehabilitated and expanded water and sewer networks.
2.     True economic costs are defined as full costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement, converted at a
realistic exchange rate, established as a Reference Value for purposes of this agreement. The Reference Value is
defined as the approximate average of the official and unofficial rates of exchange, which wiU be reviewed and
revised annually by the Borrower and the Association on or before December 15th pursuant to this agreement. The
Reference Value as of October 1991 was established at NK400 per US dollar.
3.     EPAB's financial statement of August 1991 shows an estimated financial cost of NK26.25, or US$0.44 per
cubic meter at the official exchange rate. At the Reference Value of NK400 to the dollar 'breakeven' cost per cubic
meter would be NK176. However, considering the actual degradation of the present water network and the wide
disparity between present and proposed water tariffs, the water tariff will be adjusted in stages to reflect the findings
of the Water and Sewer Tariff and Reorganization Stuties and the timing of new investments in rehabilitation and
expansion under the project.
4.     A first Interim Water Tariff of NK53.00 was agreed during negotiations, which will be presented to the
Provincial Price Commission by November 15, 1991 to become effective on January 1st, 1992 upon ratification.
The Provincial Price Commission will complete its review of the tariff proposal and will submit its recommendation
to the Provincial Government by December 15, 1991. The Provincial Government will issue a Despacho by
December 31, 1991 establishing the nh w water tariff as a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (c) of the
Credit Agreement).
5.     The tariff schedule and timetable eventually to achieve full cost recovery of operation, maintenance, and
investment of the rehabilitated water and sewer networks will be established on the basis of a study financed under
the credit. Signature of the contract for the Water and Sewer Institutional Reorganization and Tariff Studies, based
on the bidding documents reviewed during negotiations, is a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 (b) of
the Credit Agreement). The schedule of events leading to signature of the contract includes: Letter of Invitation
to be issued by November 15, 1991; submission of proposals by January 15, 1992; bid evaluation by January 31,
1992; IDA 'no objection' by February 15, 1992; negotiation and signature of contract by March 15, 1992.
6.     Upon completion of the Water and Sewer Tariff Study referred to above the Provincial Government will
undertake a review of the water tariff (and proposed sewer tariff) and will establish a Second Interim Water Tariff
taking into consideration the findings of the study and the comments of the Association. This Second Interim Water
Tariff, which should be at least equal to 80% of the 'breakeven' cost at the prevailing Reference Value for the
dollar, will become effective not later than January 1st, 1993.
7.     Recommendations of the tariff and reorganization studies will be formally reviewed by the Borrower and
the Association during the Mid-Term Review,
8



Annex 9
Page 9 of 9
Page 2 of 2
scheduled to take place no later than eighteen months after credit effectiveness. During Mid-Term Review an action
program will be discussed and agreed including a timetable for institutional reorganization of EPAB and the
establishment and periodic revision of the water and sewer tariff schedule designed to achieve full cost reccvery of
oporation, maintenance, and investment of the rehabilitated networks (Section 3.04 (a) (ii) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Annex ItQ Sunlemnental Letter No. 3
Aged at Negotiations. October 24, 1991
9



Annex 10
Page 1 of 7
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING SrUDIES
L      INTRODUCTION
1.     The Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project's main objective is
to improve the living environment of the population of the Lobito-Benguela Conuwbation through
rehabilitation and limited extension of basic infrastructure, and rehabilitation of environmental health.
The prinary objective of the studies is to prepare an Environmental Diagnostic and the Environmental
Action Plan for the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation. The diagnostic will complement the Preliminary
Environmental Assessment and set the ecological baseline for the Conurbation. The action plan will
assist the local authorities in establishing environmental management and sustainable dsvelopment
within the region. The findings and recommendations of the Envirommental Studies wiU provide the
cornerstone for environmental rehabilitation of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation, to ensure proper
monitoring of the impacts of the Project, and for developing the sustainable management of the area's
resources. The level of effort will involve 33 man/months of consultant inputs, starting March 1992
and terminating in November 1994. Interim studies will be completed by March 1993 in anticipation of
the Project Mid-term Review scheduled in September 1993.
2.     The Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project was first identified at the
SATCC Coordinating Conference in Luanda in January 1989 which reviewed the Development Plan for
the Lobito Transport System (the 'Lobito Corridor'). The Swedish and Norwegian delegations
expressed interest in the rehabilitation of Lobito and proposed that the World Bank, as executing agent,
undertake project preparation and appraisal. A Bank identification mission in June 1989 included both
Lobito and Benguela because the two cities form an environmental microregion and socio-economic
conurbation. In April 1990 SIDA and NORAD created a Project Preparation Trust Fund of SEK 6.8
million (US$1.2 million) to support the project. SIDA also provided an Emergency Equipment Fund of
SEK 10 million ($US1.8 million) to provide short-term relief to the area's inadequate water and
sanitation conditions.
EL     PROJECT CONTEXT
3.     Environmental degradation in the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation results largely from lack of
adequate infrastructure and basic services, and the destabilizing effects of the war, which have caused a
massive increase of the area's urban population. The adverse impacts of the resulting environmental
degradation on the land and water resources and, in turn, human health and potential economic
resources have reached a crisis situation. Negative impacts include coastal, surface and groundwater
degradation; soil erosion; changes in aquatic ecosystems; and desertification. Since 1975 the population
roughly quadrupled tJ 800,000, while delivery of urban water and basic sanitation services has
diminished by as much as two-thirds. Lack of adequate water and sanitation results in that waterborne
and infectious diseases are rampant, and five out of eight most reported diseases are water related.
Morbidity rates average 35 % in the urban area; and infant (169 per thousand) and child (325 per
thousand) mortality rates are among the highest in the world.
1



Anng O
Page 2 of 7
m.    LEGAL & INSTITUTIONAL BACKGROUND & INFORMATION AVAILABILITY
4.     ALgola's environmental legislation is still largely limited to the former portuguese legislation
covering mostly forest development and wildlife protection, and hunting. Coastal and deep sea fishing
legislation is being revised on econormic terms, and several individual efforts are on the way to
complement legislation at the agriculture and energy ministries. Discussions at the governmental and
NGO levels are leading towards development of a system (committee, secretary, ministry, or other
similar structure) to oversee environmental issues. Legislation and regulations at the local level are
restricted to those existing at the national level. The institutions, technical resources, information and
data currently available at the national level or in the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation microregion are
limited in scope, and inadequate for either its environmental rehabilitation, or for its resource analysis,
planning, management and monitoring. In addition, the local govermment does not have the human and
technical resources necessary to prepare an environmental action plan for the region.
IV.    OFFICIAL STANDING
5.     The local government has recognized the significance of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation's
environmental issues, along with the need to consider environmental rehabilitation of the region, and
base its further development on environmentally sustainable decisions. The lack of data, particularly
applied information is recognized as hindering both correction of policies negatively affecting the
environment and natural resources, and the development of appropriate policies and projects. Assistance
was requested to start a basic information and data center targeting solution of major environmental
problems; determine these problems' sources and degree; and stressing short-term, on-the-job training
of local staff to carry out environment-related projects.
V.    TIHE PROJECT
6.     The Lobito Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project consists of the following
basic components:
a) Environmental Sanitation, including rehabilitation of the water and sewerage
infrastructure systems; replacement of sanitary cores in selected inner city apartment buildings (to be
financed separately); the solid waste management system; the storm drainage network;
b) Low Income Sanitation, including major improved latrine construction and sanitary
education programs and a modest urban revegetation component;
c) Institutional Development, including technical assistance and training for EPAB, DPSC,
and GPP, responsible respectively for the operation and maintenance of the provincial water system
(EPAB), the solid waste management system (DPSC), the low cost sanitation, sanitary education,
revegetation, and building materials programs (DPSC); and project management (GPP). Project
administrative and logistical support includes provision of housing, acquisition of vehicles,
communication equipment, office equipment, supplies and spare parts for project use.
d) Studies, include the following area-specific studies: a Water & Sewer Tariff and
Institutional Reorganization Study; the Environmental Management and Monitoring Study (subject of
these Terms of Reference); and a Land Registration and Geographic Information System Study.
VI.  THE ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING STUDIES
2



Annexi10
Page 3 of 7
7.     The environmental studies will organize environmental information in an applied form lo
permit direct use by the local decision makers, and assist the local government build the capacity for
environmental rehabilitation, planning, management and monitoring within the Lobito-Benguela
Conurbation and the Benguela Province. The studies will yield two specific products, the
Environmental Diagnostic, and the Environmental Action Plan for the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation
microregion. The diagnostic will identify the areas resources and constraints, and the action plan wiU
establish priorities for environmental issues and provide the framework for the area's environmental
rehabilitation. In addition, specific monitoring studies will collect and/or comwlement data for the
diagnostic, and help development of the Lobito-Benguela Rehabilitation Project sub-components. The
environmental studies will be carried out at the higher levels of the Provincial government, to guarantee
full commitment and consideration of the recommendations witbin the economic and overall planning
government levels. This work will be complemented by the sanitary-environmental education program,
which will provide the education and training necessary to introduce and ensure environmental
management at the community and individual levels.
A.    Environmental Diagnostic
8.     The envitonmental diagnostic will provide basic data for sound ecological planning and
management, and environmental monitoring of the project area. It will consist of baseline studies
followed by the analyzes and classification of the project area's land and water resources, and
interpretation of the classification to set parameters for sustainable development and land utilization
according to the area's ecological vocation, that is, according to its opportunities and constraints. The
work will draw on a combination of information sources, including a series of field surveys with aid of
aerial photography and satellite images interpretation, to establish the ecological baseline of the Lobito-
Benguela Conurbation microregion. The area surveyed will be approximately 75 ka- of coastline from
Lobito to Baia Farta, and 15-20 kilometers inland to the top of the escarpment; this area will be
extended where necessary to provide adequate information for the analysis and classification. The
consultant(s) will collect, develop and organize the data necessary for the diagnostic, prepare the
baseline studies and the resource analysis, and identify all areas in need of specific environmental
impact assessment and management plans.
9.     The analysis will be presented in terms of opportunities and constraints pesed by both natural
and human resources and activities, and will include, but not be limited to, the area's geology,
geomorphology, soils and subsoil, vegetation, surface and groundwater hydrology, wildlife, land use,
and social and institutional framework. The studies will pay especial attention to cultural, unique, and
scarce resources; flora and fauna of economic potential and ecological value; and the role of estuary
production and productivity in the area's existing and potential socio-economic framework. A series of
base maps and overlays will be prepared along with a thorough description of socio-enviromental and
ecosystem characteristics. The land use maps will be prepared with special focus on fragile areas;
health hazards; and water supply and quality. In addition, the envirommental diagnostic will complement
the preliminary environmental assessment of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation by including
recommendations on Lobito's coastal erosion, location of industrial and commercial operations versus
pollution status, and the effects of filling and/or draining the coastal wetlands of Lobito.
B.      Envirownental Action Plan
10.    From the baseline studies, an environmental action plan will be developed by the consultant(s)
in close connection with the Gabinete Provincial do Piano and involving the local communities and
NGOs, the Departamento Provincial de Servicos Comunitarios, and the Provincial Departments of
3



Annex 10
Page 4 of 7
Health, Agriculture, and Forestry. The environmental action plan will address institutional, regulatory,
and human resource capacity building at the local level, and assist the local decision makers in the
planning and implementation of future projects and/or rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. The plan
wili be developed in short, medium, and long-term phases, and include a strategy for implementation of
short and medium-term ictions by the local authorities and staff over the life of the project. The action
plan will address a) thret on-going projects as specified below, and b) further environmental
rehabilitation and development of the microregion.
11.    a) The consultant(s) will prepare together with the DPSC specific action plans to develop and
effect a schedule for implementation and monitoring for the following projects, in connection with the
monitoring studies:
Urban Revegetation and Erosion Control. The program will be carried out by the DPSC and
the communities and includes planting, maintaining and periodically monitoring trees and
groundcover at the chafarizes, the drainage basin (valley, gullies, ravines), and beaches; and
tree and fuelwood production at the oxidation lagoons.
'Water Conservation and Erosion Control. Including local construction of velocity check
dams and monitoring river flows, groundwater drawdown, and water quality; and building of
parallel terraces by the local communities, to be implemented help from the DPSC.
* Wetlands and Beach Rehabilitation. Including cutting channels to re-establish lagoons'
circulation and flushing, monitoring of pollution and impact on fauna and flora, and dunes
rehabilitation and monitoring.
12.    b) The action plan for the microregion will pay especial attention, but not be limited, to:
-    Establishing priorities for the major a.avironmental issues according to local impacts and needs,
and addressing the underlying causes -1f the area's environmental degradation;
Proposing solutions to major existing p;cblems based on development of local sustainable
resources by emphasizing environmental afety, low cost, local labor and material,
amelioration of poverty, and creation of . uployment;
Proposing emergency solutions to urban and coastal erosion, fuelwood scarcity, and
desertification based on community participation and management;
Identifying cultural patterns, customs and resources that currently or potentially interfere with
environmental rehabilitation and management, and proposing solutions acceptable to the
communities involved;
Establishing and implementing the environmental zoning of the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation
microregion, and establishEng and implementing wetlands, beach, and estuary protection;
Reviewing the Angolan legislation/regulations applicable to environmental management of the
Lobito-Benguela Conurbation microregion; proposing complementation of existing legislation
and preparing draft legislation to be discussed with the Provincial authorities, with focus on
establishing environmental management in the microregion;
4



Annex 10
Page 5 of 7
Implementing the institutional and .gulatory framework for environmental rehabilitation,
correction and prevention of negative impacts of infrastructure and development projects,
monitoring and control of environmental and resources degradation.
C.     Environmental and Project Monitoring
13.    The monitoring studies will collect and organize the information needed for improvement of
health; identification, correction, control and prevention of water pollution sources; recovery and/or
maintenance of populations of economically important or unique living resources; and the effectiveness
of the revegetation and erosion control project in view of local desertification. In addition, they will
provide monitoring for the project's water distribution and sanitation programs to prevent water losses
and contamination of groundwater, and identify unforeseen impacts. A manual will be prepared in
portuguese describing the monitoring process for each area -including qualifications of all equipment
used- and the procedures for interpretation of the data, so that the monitoring can be sustained by the
staff of local agencies. The manual should be ready one month after monitoring starts, and use a
language compatible with the technical capability of local users.
14.    Water Resources. Evaluate the Lobito-Benguela Conurbation' surface and groundwater
resources by measuring water flows to determine water availability for the Lobito-Benguela
Conurbation, potential for water re-use, and storm water control devices. The study will periodically
record and analyze:
a) peak and low flows in the Catumbela and Cavaco rivers, through gauges at the weir and
bridge;
b) water flows in the observation wells of Catumbela and Benguela;
c) peak flows in the dry rivers (during the rainy season), and through the water gullies and
ravines above Alto Liro and Bela Vista, and the Vala do Coringe;
15.    Water Quality. Evaluate surface and groundwater resources by monitoring water quality to
determine 1) decrease of water pollution resulting from implementation of the sewerage, low income
sanitation, and solid waste projects; 2) point and non-point pollution sources; and 3) industrial pollution
and pollution due to port activity. The work will include, but not be limited to, analyzing and/or
periodically recording and analyzing bacterial and/or other contaminants at:
a) Lobito's wetlands;
b) Lobito's and Benguela's bays;
c) the effluent of industries located along the coast and rivers, and along the dry rivers;
d) the effluent from the oxidation ponds; and
e) the observation water wells of Catumbela and Benguela, and in areas with potential for
groundwater pollution.
5



Annex 10
Page 6 of 7
16.    Water Conservation. Evaluate water losses at the water supply network with focus on system
improvements. The study will regularly record and analyze losses within the water distribution
networks of Lobito and Benguela, and the extension to Baia Farta.
17.    Unique Resources. Evaluate the effects of changes in water quality in the native flora and
fauna at Lobito's wetlands, and the Catumbela and Cavaco estuaries to aid in the development and
maintenance of ecosystem management and resources protection plans. Monitoring will consider the
impact of salt pans, and of re-establishing lagoons circulation and diverting incoming sewage. The work
will include regularly recording and/or analyzing quantitative or qualitative changes in the populations
of:
a) wetlands' birds, particularly the pink and white flamingo colonies of Lobito;
b) fish and shellfish in Lobito's wetlands;
c) fish and shellfish of economic importance within or dependent on the Catumbela and Cavaco
estuaries.
18.    Revegetation and Erosion Control. Evaluate effectiveness of the revegetation and erosion
control program to determine interest of groups other than governmental agencies, and aid in project
development and policy-rnaking regarding extension of the project and replication in other areas. The
work will include, but not be limited to, recording and analyzing:
a) tree survival in the urban revegetation project (neighborhoods, Chafarizes, beaches);
b) planting and survival of beach dunes vegetation;
c) production of trees, fuelwood, and fruit orchards in the oxidation lagoons and the DPSC
nurseries;
d) trees planted by latrine slab buyers versus trees distributed; records should differentiate
between fruit and other tree species;
e) tree and ground cover planting and terracing in the velocity check dams and drainage
channels.
NOTE: Throughout the course of the studies the consultants will:
Fully consider on-going local efforts towards understanding and/or solving existing
environmental problems at both governmental and non-governmental levels;
Coordinate with international groups and donor commrnunty to incorporate their views where
appropriate, enlist their support, and avoid duplication of efforts;
Organize the data and information collected in a format allowing easy updating, replication,
and use by the staff of the local agencies; and regularly provide all records and other
information in portuguese;
Make available to the local agencies/authorities throughout the study and in applicable form,
all data, information and management systems resulting from the monitoring studies;
6



Annex 10
Page 7 of 7
Devise simple, low cost methods for environmental management and monitoring possible to be
carried out by the staff of local agencies with minimum outside interference;
Train local staff and, where applicable, local communities and NOOs to continue monitoring
and management programs beyond the life of the Project;
Identify specific technical assistance and training needed for continuation of environmental
management and monitoring beyond the Project's life;
Provide information as needed or requested for local educational projects and programs;
Provide assistance to the Resident Advisor for Sanitary-Environmental Education in the design
and implementation of the environmental educational material.
7



AmmiJ
Page 1 of 7
LOBITO-BENGUELA URBAN LNVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
LAND REGISTRATION GIS (LARGIS) STUDY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
1.     INTRODUCTION
1.1    There is a need to increase the local government's ability to develop, use and manage their urban
cadastre for taxation and other purposes. A simplified computerized land registration system is a possible
solution. The introduction and implementation of an appropriate yet comprehensive land registration prototype,
along with a training program for local professionals to operate and maintain such a computerized application is
proposed. An improved land records system can provide a framework through which various developmental
solutions can be devised and implemented.
1.2   It is proposed that the Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project contract the
services of a Geographic Information Systems (GIS) consulting firm with expertise in land registration. The
consulting firm will be responsible for the design and development of a prototype Land Registration GIS
(LARGIS) application that includes a physical addressing scheme and a land registration system. LARGIS will
be primarily used by the Project to support taxation management for project cost-recovery. The work on
LARGIS wili involve popular participation which will be coordinated by the consulting firm.
1.3    The obiective. The objective of the proposed '2-year study is to utilize the GIS component of the
project to develop a prototype Land Registration GIS (LARGIS) application. The LARGIS Study is the man
application of the project's GIS component (see GIS Annex 8). The specific use of LARGIS is to support
taxation management for project cost 'ecovery. A more general use of LARGIS extends to overall project
management. For example, base maps that are generated for the LARGIS (using the GIS) can be used in
environmental and rehabilitation operations.
II.    BACKGROUND
2.1    Much of the urban expansion that is taking place in developing countries is occurring at the edges of
cities in the form of unplanned spontaneous settlements. Figure 1.3 depicts the approximate size and location of
the unplanned settlements (Musseques) in the the city of Benguela, Angola. These sites contain a large
proportion of the city's total population and are expanding on a day-to-day basis. Squatter settlements and
shanty towns are maturing and as a result are causing social, political, and environmental problems. Some of
these problems are mentioned in the following paragraphs.
2.2    Ouality of Life. These settlements consist of makeshift shelters (shanties) that lack the basic
necessities of life and desirable conveniences. Clean water is only available to a few residents. Education,
health care and recreation facilities are inadequate.
2.3    Land Titles. Socioeconomic information on the inhabitants of these areas is nonexistent. Inhabitants
of an unplanned settlement may work in the developed sector of the city and yet have no accessible residential
address since their dwellings are considered illegal and the land they occupy probably belongs to someone else.
1



Annex 11
Page 2 of 7
2.4    Taxatign and Revenue, Ministries of developing countries are unable to raise sufficient revenue
through land valuation and taxation to meet community and government loan return requirements. The capital,
organization and management needed for the maintenance and modernization of existing infrastructure, provision
and preparation of new residential sites, and for the extension of services to the unplanned settlements is
severely inadequate. The city of Lobito is a good example of the inability of local ministries to raise revenue.
A survey (by E. Shluger in 1989) reveals that the property tax collected within the general tax revenue
(including all other State taxes on production, consumption and services) in 1988 totalled approximately 2 billion
kwanzas, or about 2 million US dollars, which represents less than one percent of the potential tax revenue.
2.5    Pjec Costs., The cost associated with planning projects, such as infrastructure rehabilitation in
developing environments, may escalate as a result of inadequate information. One reason for this is that time
must be allocated for gathering and compiling information. Costs rise as a result of delays while critical
information is acquired and processed.
IH.    PROJECT CONTEXT
3.1    The cities of Lobito and Benguela in Angola are not immune to the problems described above.
Cadastral maps are available, but they are inadequate for the purpose of a land registration system. For
example, the urban cadastral information system in place at the Institutco de Geodesia e Cartografia de Angola
(ICGA) was developed by the Portuguese and has not been altered since the colonial days. The system, which
only covers the colonial part of the city, consists of a single cadastral map (1:5,000 scale) that depicts urban
land parcels and a cardex system for the maintenance of the parcel-related non-graphic information. In
principle, this type of manual information system could be used to maintain the city's cadastral information.
3.2    Unfortunately, little or no attempt has been made to update this information since 1974. The map
depicts land parcels and their associated parcel identifier numbers (PINs). The PINs are utilized as a link to the
cardex system as illustrated in figure 1.1. The PIN numbering schema is inflexible and as a result there is little
room for expansion.
3.3   EBiorts have been made to develop a set of property files that could be utilized to regulate land tenure
and better identify the taxable property or provide more equitable public services to residences. However, the
major problem is that most cities in Africa lack up-to-date information and an addressing system, hence
adequate street maps.
3.4    The automated mapping system should enable the staff at the INPF to keep pace with the urban
expansion and maintain an up-to-date set of cadastral maps. These maps should be created as a common base
and made available to various governmental offices. For example, Figure 1.4 shows how three departments can
make use of a common mapping base. Furthermore, the digital maps can be used to display attribute
information from the land registration system in the form of thematic maps, providing excellent resources for
planners, environmentalists and engineers.
IV.    LAND REGISTRATION GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM
4.1    A 'phase-in and examine' approach to implementation should be adopted. A variety of software
packages can be introduced and integrated as needed. Application successes and failures can be examined under
the proposed study and modifications introduced as the applications mature. With this type of approach, less
2



Annex 11
Page 3 of 7
capital funds are required for the initial phase and the risk factor associated with implementation is minimized.
Local agencies can direct future funding based on application performance. Special care should be taken when
introducing this type of system in an environment where there is little or no experience with automated systems.
Implementation should be slow to ensure a solid foundation of knowledge. New tools should be introduced in
parallel with existing methods and procedures. Each step should be carefully evaluated before continuing to the
next. Ideally, local participation will be present from the beginning. This should produce an end-product
designed specifically with local needs and personnel in mind.
4.2    The links between the CIS component and the LARGIS application are mutually reinforcing; The GIS
component provides much of the computer resources and is, in turn, strengthened by the database, methods,
outputs and expertise that will be generated by the LARGIS. The success of the computerized system will
depend to a large extent on the abilities of the technical staff. At this time there are no Macintosh technicians in
the city of Benguela. If a computer raalfunction occurs the computer will remain inoperative until a trained
person is brought in. This situation should be avoided in order to reduce the risk of investing in computer
resources.
4.3    There is good reason to expect that a simplified Land Registration system based on modem low-cost
and user-friendly technology is achievable and will support taxation/cost recovery activities in particular, and
overall project management in general. A strategy to extend the prototype system to an operational system
should be planned for the Lobito-Benguela conurbation, for other urban centers in Angola, and perhaps, in
additional developing countries .
4.4    A simplified computer-based land registration system will make it possible to identify the *taxable
property". Property taxes can be assessed and levied more appropriately, thereby r- covering costs, increasing
the resources of the Lobito-Benguela area, and enabling the provision of more equitable public services to the
local residences. An improved land records system can provide a framework through which various
developmental solutions can be devised and implemented. The system will additionally be used to enhance
project planning and management productivity.
V.   SCOPE OF WORK
A.    Similar Work and Study Preparation
5.1    A pilot project was carried out by Groupe Huit (based in Paris, France) to determine whether a
simplified modem property file for the city of N'Djamena (Republic of Chad) could be created and used as the
basis of a computerized land registration system. The project used the 4th Dimension relational database system
on the Apple Macintosh. The pilot project proved successful within reasonable limits, and the experience
gained was put forward in a Report, later translated into English at the World Bank, entitled 'Survey and
Utilization Methodology for a Simplified Property File for N'Djamena' (1990). The proposed LARGIS study
should draw on the experience of the design and implementation of the simplified property file system for the
city of N'Djamena.
5.2    Additional techniques are in the process of being developed (at SUNY, Buffalo, New York, USA; and
at the Umiversity of Westem Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada). They involve the use of 4th Dimension, a
general-purpose relational database for managing spatially-keyed information, basic line-drawing based
mapmaking techniques, and an easy-to-use interface in HyperCard to a limited set of querying and drawing
3



AnnexII
Page 4 of 7
capabilities. The resulting database and map systems are intended to be used in conjunction with a physical
neighborhood/street/house addressing system.
5.3    Evaluation of software packages and experimentation.  Included the following.
a) An experimental Thematic Electronic Atlas was compiled, demonstrating that it is possible to link
the information in a database to maps and images. FILEVISION IV, a Visual Information System
somewhat similar to HyperCard, was used.
b) An extensive experiment with cadastral information mapping, storing, querying and analyzing was
conducted using the MAP II raster GIS and based on scanned air-photo data.
c) Other packages evaluated included MapGraphix, MapMaker, LandDcsign.
5.4    On the May 1991 appraisal mission to Benguela, Bairro do Massangarala (in Benguela) and a canyon in
Bela Vista (in Lobito) were selected as likely pilot areas for the spatiall -keyed relational database for land
registration, and for mapping latrines and other sanitation and environmental themes. Massangarala has
potential for popular (ie. community) participation, while canyon settlements in Bela Vista are instances of
neighborhoods that are subject to erosion problems and flood hazards. These areas are small enough to yield
quick results while at the same time are a good representation of the entire area. The extension of the project to
the entire area should be done subsequently, drawing on the acquired experience gained by running the pilot
project.
B.     Land Registration GIS (LARGIS) Study Implementation
5.5    The LARGIS study will be conducted by a consulting firm over a 2-year period. The work will take
place both at the firm's headquarters and in Lobito-Benguela. The GIS facility at the Gabinette do Plano (GPP)
in Benguela will be used as the study's office and work area in Angola. The study's physical addressing, land
registration, and popular participation aspects will require a substantial amount of fieldwork in the pilot study
areas. Personnel will be needed for both local and overseas activities. Most of the training shall take place in
Angola. The tasks for the Land Registration GIS Study are as follows.
5.6     User Needs StudA. To conduct a user needs study to identify the users, uses, functional processes,
and consequent data requirements of the legal, fiscal and mapping components of the proposed improved land
registration system.
5.7    To draw up a plan. To draw up a detailed appropriate plan for the prototype land registration
application. Based on, and preceded by, a system development life cycle (SDLC) review.
5.8    Plot Identifier Nunbers (PMD Scheme. Develop a method for generating parcel identifier numbers.
So that parcels can be cross-referenced within the register and easily identified. For example, with a PIN, it
should be possible to access all the details of a parcel, including its attributes and its spatial description. The
criteria for selecting an appropriate plot referencing system should be:
a) easy to understand, making confusion and mistakes less likely,
b) easy to remember, enabling easy recall by landowners,
4



Annex 11
Page 5 of 7
c) easy to use by the general public and by administrators,
d) easy to process using a computer,
e) permanent, eg. the reference does not change following a sale,
f) easily updated when subdivision or amalgamation occur,
g) accurate and unlikely to be transcribed in error,
h) flexible--so that it can be used for a variety of land registration purposes,
i) unique--no two parcels have the same reference; there is a one-to-one relationship between the
property on the ground and the property referred to in the registers; and
j) low-cost to implement and to maintain.
5.9    Tne property address should act as the foundation for creating the PIN referencing system. There are a
number of viable referencing systems, for example: Street Index and Plot Address. With this reference scheme,
every street is given a reference number and the parcel is located within it. The resulting number can be in an
alpha-numerical form such as 555554444A333 where 55555 is the street code, 4444 is the plot number, A
indicates abnormalities and 333 is a further subdivision for strata titles.
5.10   Training Program. A training program should be established for land registration and GIS as part of
institutional development. Training should be provided in Angola and overseas, as appropriate, by the
contracted firm, and by Angolan firms and individuals The training program should include a minimum of five
courses ranging in subject material and difficulty, along the lines shown below.
a) Basic Macintosh technical issues:
An Introduction to the Macintosh computing environment
System trouble shooting and day-to-day maintenance procedures;
b) Introduction to basic software packages such as:
Microsoft Word (Word Processing)
Microsoft Excel (Spreadsheets)
Atlas*MapMaker (Thematic Mapping);
c) Introduction to digital data exchange file formats such as Tagged Image File, Symbolic Link File,
Encapsulated Postscript File, and Picture File;
d) Introduction to applications development systems such as:
HyperCard (Information Management System)
4th Dimension (Relational Database Management System);
e) Advanced courses for Assistant Developers. These courses should be specifically tailored to the
advanced application developers and database management specialists. Local staff members
should be carefully selected for specialized technical training. Training programs should be
intensive and should be introduced to appropriate INPF staff members.
5.11   Data Collection and Collation. A simple data collection process should be adopted. Emphasis should
be placed on designing and implementing a system that can be executed by partially-skilled staff under minimal
supervision. Data should be directly encoded into a spreadsheet package and later transferred to 4th Dimension
after error checks and simple processing has been performed. The simplified set of files should contain the
5



Annex 11
Page 6 of 7
following basic attribute information: Plot Identifier Numbers (PIN), name or number of the streets, plot
numbers, first and last names of occupant(s), and description of current use(s).
5.12   An expanded property file(s) for use in a relational database environment should also be designed and
should include cadastral information such as: type of structure(s), condition of structure(s), number of
structure(s), type of structure(s), access to urban services (latrines, paved roads and clean water supplies),
description of property use (land-use thematic maps), and socioeconomnic data (number of occupants, age, sex
and employment).
5.13   Table templates for the demographic information should reflect the current manual system as closely as
possible. Slight modifications may have to be made to ensure long term compatibility. The task of populating
the data tables should be initiated by the local personnel.
5.14   Address Assigmnent. An 'Address Assignment' operation should be carried out for the selected
study sites of Benguela and Lobito so that streets can be easily identified in the field, mapped and
geo-referenced.
S. 15 LARGIS. Design and implement a prototype Land Registration system as a GIS application based on
5.11 above. The work should involve two main components: a (relational) Database Management System and
an Automated Mapping System. The database application should be spatially-keyed and used for the
management of cadastral, demographic, infrastructure, and other attribute information from templates. The
application should be able to handle all of the present and future processing needs. The objective should be to
develop an application that can handle data for all plots within a city and thereby be capable of responding to
the local demands of extending the process throughout an entire city. The mapping application should be used
to create a digital survey fabric, consisting of a set of base maps. These maps will then be used to display the
results of a query performed on the database.
5.16   An automated mapping facility should be set up and handed over to the appropriate staff at GPP so that
existing land-based parcel maps of the study areas can be updated to create a set of address index maps. The
Instituto Nacional de Planificagao Fisica (INPF) appears to have the most comprehensive and up-to-date set of
cadastral maps for the Lobito-Benguela area. Extension of digital mapping to include other urban areas can
commence once the system is set in place. All hardcopy maps should be produced at the same scale to make
the task of indexing and cross referencing an easier one. The resulting digital basemaps should be shared by a
variety of government offices.
5.17   The digital database should be looked upon as the foundation of the spatial information system. The
Atlas*MapMaker thematic mapping package should be considered for use to create and maintain a database of
digital maps and images. In creating this database, an essential part of the design should be linkage of the
graphical information with non-graphical attributes in the simplified property file. Linkages such as unique plot
identifiers must be incorporated in the encoding process.
5.18   Systems Intenration. Establish a user-friendly interface between the expanded property file system
and the automated mapping system to create an integrated multi-purpose cadastral information system. It is
recommended that HyperCard be utilized to build the link between the two proposed applications due to its
ability to create Macintosh-like user interfaces and its availability within the Macintosh computing environment.
HyperCard is an integral part of the software received with all new Macintosh microcomputers. 'Hypertalk',
6



AnneLx 11
Page 7 of 7
HyperCard's scripting language, can be used to create the link and present the user with an intuitive graphic
user interface. The link between the two systems should allow interrelated queries to be executed within the
database application and have the results highlighted on a digital map.
VI   TASK SUMMARY
6.1    Carrying out a user needs assessment to identify the users, uses, procedures, and consequent legal,
fiscal and technical mapping data requirements from the proposed improved cadastral information system.
6.2    Designing and implementing a physical addressing system so that streets can be easily identified in the
field, then mapped and, subsequently, co-located in the field and on the map(s).
6.3    Designing and implementing a prototype land registration system based on 6.2 above. The study will
involve the design of a prototype working application around two main components: a relational database
msanagement system and an automnated mapping system.
a) TL3 database application will be spatially-keyed and used for the management of cadastral,
demographic, infrastructure, and other pertinent information from templates. Specific tasks are: (1) the design
and development of simplified property files and subsequent expanded property files for use by a variety of
government offices in a relational database environment; (2) the design, development and implementation of an
application utilizing 4th Dimension that can efficiently process all of the attributes within expanded data files
(approximately 60,000 plots or records).
b) The mapping application will be used for creating and using a digital survey fabric that consists of
base maps at several scales. The specific tasks include: (1) the implementation of an appropriate automated
mapping capability at the Gabinette do Piano (GPP) in Benguela for the creation and maintenance of street
maps and parcel maps; (2) the development of an easy-to-use HyperCard interface between the expanded
cadastral file system and the automated mapping system in order to create an integrated multi-purpose graphic
cadaster system; and (3) the generation of tabular database reports, thematic maps, graphics and presentation
materials. The information should be available both in digital form (on screen) and by generating hardcopy
printouts.
6.4    Developing a training program for land registration and GIS-related topics throughout the life of the
project, as part of institutional development. Training will be provided in Angola and overseas by qualified
individuals associated with the consulting firm and with Angolan firms.
6.5    Initiating information services projects for receiving, creating and disseminating information with
interested agencies within the community on a collaborative or cost-recovery contractual-agreement basis.
6.6    Writing and publishing information on the land registration and related GIS applied and development
work. In order to create an awareness and to promote these activities to the general public, and in the private
and public sectors.
7



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF GPP KEY STAFF
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.     The main objectives of the project are: (a) to eliminate life-threatening epidemics, improve the
health of the population, and halt the degradation of the physical environment by restoring the water
supply and failed sanitary services; (b) to improve living conditions in the squatter settlements by
providing clean water, improved latrines, and a revegetation program; and (c) to strengthen the
institutions responsible for current operation, management, and control of urban services and the
environment by providing technical assistance, logistical support, training, and studies which may
contribute to future policy reform.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.     The project would consist of the following four basic components: (Detailed analysis of each
of the components is shown in Chapter 2 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), and in the respective
annexes to the SAR.)
a) Environmental Sanitation, including rehabilitation of the water and sanitary sewerage
networks; the solid waste management systems; and the storm drainage networks;
b) Low Income Sanitation, including major improved latrine and sanitary education programs
and a small urban revegetation component;
c) Institutional Development, including technical assistance and training for Provincial
implementing agencies responsible respectively for the operation and maintenance of the provincial
water and sewer systems (EPAB); solid waste management; low cost sanitation, sanitary education, and
building materials programs (DPSC); and overall planning, project management, and monitoring
(GPP). Administrative and logistical support to the project includes acquisition of vehicles,
telecommunication and office equipment, supplies, and spare parts for project use.
d) Studies, including detailed engineering design and supervision of the water, sewer, and
storm drainage components; and the following area-specific studies: a water and sewer tariff and
institutional reorganization study; an environmental management and monitoring study; and a
geographic information system and land registration study. The project would also finance annual
audits of project accounts, and studies for the design and preparation of follow-up projects in the
infrastructure sector, identified during project implementation.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.     The Gabinete Provincial do Plano (GPP), the Provincial Planning Office, will have overall
management responsibility for the project, including contract management for civil works, supervision,
and technical assistance, and coordination of the various components through the implementing
agencies, Empresa Provincial de Aguas de Benguela (EPAB), the Water Company of the Province of
Benguela, and the Direcao Provincial de Servicos Comunitarios (DPSC), the Provincial Directorate for
Community Services. The Director of GPP is the project manager, supported by a project technical
coordinator, a financial controller, and a procurement advisor, as key support staff, financed by the
project under the program of technical assistance outlined in SAR paras 2.17-2.22 Institutional
Development. The appointment of the key staff of GPP, including confirmation of the Director as
Project Manager, and employment of the project technical coordinator, the financial controller, and the
procurement advisor, on terms satisfactory to the Association, is a condition of Credit Effectiveness
(SAR para 5.3).
1



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
RESPONSIBIfITIES OF KEY STAFF
4.     The Project Manager is responsible for coordinating and monitoring all managerial and
technical aspects of project implementation. His duties include liaison of project activities with central,
provincial, and local government authorities; compliance with the provisions of the Implementation
Agreements, annual action programs, and implementation schedules for the respective project
components; supervision of procurement arrangements; timely contracting and overall performance of
the technical assistance and studies provided for in the project; ensuring and maintaining appropriate
counterpart staff during project implementation; prompt allocation of housing and office space for
project consultants; supervision of project financial accounts; and timely compliance with the reporting
and auditing obligations of the project. The Project Manager will sign all requests for disbursement
from the Special Account and from the Project Account, and all requests for replenishment from the
IDA Credit and the Government, based on adequate supporting documentation prepared by the
Financial Controller, arn with written opinions of the Technical Coordinator, and the Procurement
Advisor, as appropriate.
5.     The Project Technical Coordinator (36 months) will report directly to the Project Manager.
Supported by appropriate local counterpart staff, the Technical Coordinator will assist the project
manager in the supervision and monitoring of all work and study contracts under the project, and will
certify the status of works of contractors for purposes of payment. Jointly with the Financial
Controller, the Technical Coordinat3r will develop and maintain budgets and systems of cost control,
critcal path, and physical and financial perfornance indicators for each project component.
6.     The Project Financial Controller (36 months) will report directly to the Project Manager.
Supported by appropriate local counterpart staff, the Financial Controller will keep financial accounts
for all project components; ensure appropriate compilation and maintenance of project documentation
and files; and prepare and maintain consolidated accounts of expenditure, quarterly reports, annual
financial plans and reports, and internal audits, in sufficient detail and format satisfactory to IDA. The
Financial Controller will prepare for the signature of the Project Manager, and counter-sign, all
requests for disbursement from the Special Account and the Project Account, and requests for
disbursement from the IDA Credit and the Government. Jointly with the Technical Coordinator, the
Financial Controller will develop and maintain budgets and systems of cost control, critical path, and
physical and financial performance indicators for each project component.
7.     The Project Procurement Advisor (12 months) will report directly to the Project Manager,
and will carry out, in close coordination with the Technical Coordinator, the Financial Controller, and
local counterpart staff all procurement arrangements for initial project implementation, including
packaging and certification of lots for consultants' services; purchase of vehicles, equipment, and
material, computer systems, hardware and software, printed material, office equipment and supplies;
and housing repair and acquisition of furniture and appliances to meet the housing needs of long-term
consultants, to be financed under the project.
2



Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
LOBITO BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
An Examination of Cadastral Mapping Techniques Utilizing Two Maclntosh Based Mapping Systems
(Map II & Filevision). Robert J. Gammon, University of Manitoba, Canada, April 1990.
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultancy on Septic Tank Services and Solid Waste Management for
Lobito and Benguela, Appendix No. 2.0, SBI-International AB, Sweden. 1990.
Esquema para Desenvolvimento Socio Economico da Provincia de Benguela - Prineira Fase, Resumo -
Analise da Situafao Existente. Technoexporstroy, Republica Popular de Angola, Marfo 1989.
Feasibility Study, Water Supply and Distribution, Storm Water Drainage and Sanitary Sewage, Lobito-
Benguela Urban Rehabilitation Project Phase 1 (SADCC Project G-CE-1). Norconsult
International, Republica Popular de Angola, Comissariado Provincial de Benguela, Gabinete
Provincial do Plano, August 1991.
Feasibility Study, Projecto de Reabilitafao Urbana Lobito-Benguela (Projecto SADCC G-CE-I).
Norconsult, Republica Popular de Angola, Comissariado Provincial de Benguela, Gabinete
Provincial do Plano, January 1991.
Feasibility Study - Summnary (draft), Projecto de Reabilitacao Urbana Lobito-Benguela (Projecto
SADCC C-CE-)). Norconsult, Republica Popular de Angola, Comissariado Provincial de
Benguela, Gabinete Provincial do Plano, April 1991.
Lobito-Benguela Urban Rehabilitation Project, Background on Institutional Aspects of Local
Development. Charles Downs, June 1990.
Lobito-Benguela Urban Rehabilitation Project, Emergency Phase - Report from Mission, November
1989. ASDI, Republica Popular de Angola, Comissariado de Benguela, December 1989.
Lobito Port Transport System - 10 Year Development Plan. SATCC Southern Africa Transport and
Communication Commission, January 1988.
Lobito-Benguela Urban Rehabilitation Project, Housing Sector - Background Information. Goran
Tannerfeldt, July 1991.
Low-Cost Sanitation Ser.i;. rank Systems and Solid Waste Management, Lobito-Benguela Urban
Rehabilitation Project. Bjorn Brandberg, Sweden, 1989.
Manual de Latrinas Melhoradas. Bjorn Brandberg, Maputo, 1985.
Manual de Latrinas Melhoradas (draft). Bjorn Brandberg, Sweden, April 1990.
Storm Water Drainage and Sanitary Sewage, Angola (SADCC Project G-CE-1), Proposal for
Consulting Services. Norconsult, Comissario Provincial de Benguela, Gabinete Provincial do
Plano, December 1989.
1



Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
Water Supply and Distribution, Storm Water Drainage, and Sanitary Sewage, Pre-Qualification
Brochure for Civil Works. Norconsult, Republica Popular de Angola, Comissariado Provincial
de Benguela, Gabinete do Piano, March 1991.
Pre-Qualification of Contractors, Lobito-Benguela Urban Rehabilitation Project (Water Distribution,
Storm Water Drainage, and Sanitary Sewage). Norconsult, June 1991.
Promof,ao e EducacVao Sanitaria - Manual de Promo,cao e Educacao Sanitaria do Projecto das
Latrinas Melhoradas, (draft). Projecto de Reabilitacao Urbana de Lobito-Benguela, Governo
da Republica Popular de Angola, Banco Mundial, Bjorn Brandberg, 1990.
Review of Mapgrafix, Geographic Information System. Robert J. Gammon, University of Manitoba,
Canada, March 1990.
The Sandplat System: A Package for Integrated Implementation of Lowest Cost Environmental
Sanitation. Bjom Brandberg, Sweden, 1990.
Saneamnento a Baixo Custo, Sistema de Fossas Septicas e Gestao de Lixo. Lobito-Benguela Projecto de
Reabilitacao Urbana, Bjorn Brandberg, Sweden, Fevereiro 1990.
Saneamento nos Musseques de Luanda - Proposta Preliminar dum Plano Estrategico para wn
Programa de Saneamnento Ambiental para os Masseques de Luanda, (draft). Development
Workshop and SBI International, Sweden, 1990.
Storm Water Drainage and Sanitary Sewage, Lobito-Benguela, Angola (SADCC Project G-CE-1),
Contract for Consulting Services. May 1990.
Tender Documents for Civil Works, Contract 1, Water Supply and Distribution, Vol.2 Bills of
Quantities, Lobito-Benguela Urban Rehabilitation Project Phase 1 (SADCC Project G-CE-1).
Norconsult International, Republica Popular de Angola, Comissariado Provincial de Benguela,
Gabinete Provincial do Plano, August 1991.
Tender Documents for Civil Works, Contract II, Storm Water Drainage and Sanitary Sewage, Vol.2,
Bills of Quantities, Lobito-Benguela Urban Rehabilitation Project Phase 1 (SADCC Project G-
CE-I). Norconsult International, Republica Popular de Angola, Comissariado Provincial de
Benguela, Gabinere Provincial do Plano, August 1991.
Tender Documents for Civil Works, Contract 111, Supply of Equipment, Lobito-Benguela Urban
Rehabilitation Project Phase 1 (SADCC Project G-CE-1). Norconsult International, Republica
Popular de Angola, Comissariado Provincial de Benguela, Gabinete Provincial do Plano,
August 1991.
Urbanizafao das Cidades de Benguela, Lobiro e Baia Farta - I Fase: Esquema Para Desenvovimento
Urbanistico. Technoexportstroy, Republica Popular de Angola, Ministerio do Plano, Instituto
Nacional de Planifica'ao Fisica, May 1990.
Water Supply and Distribution, Phase I, Lobito-Benguela, Angola (SADCC Project G-CE-1), Contract
for Consulting Services. Norconsult Intemational, Angola, Comissariado Provincial de
Benguela, Gabinete Provincial do Plano, May 1990.
2



I1RD 2318 1
GA0ON                     G                 O 
ANGOLA
PRURA
of hc    BURUDI '                               LOBITO-BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL
ANNDOLA                     ZAIOG         TANZANIA                               REHABILITATION PROJECT
* 0                                                                               PROJECT LOCATION
ANCI A 0
E117    PROJECT LOCATION       1-f-   RAILROADS
ZAIA                                           0 SELECTED TOWNS             +     AIRPORTS
ZIl60ARW/i9\9E   {                    0 @   PROVINCE CAPITALS         $     PORTS
NAMIBIA
| 80TSiANA  5     }   9  ZttNATIONAL CAPITAL                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
f2                                                                             MAIN ROADS                     INTERNATIONAL BEOUNDARIES
12    >                      g       PR. 0"N ROADSOF
TH ECONGO
BtARAJ.14 -h  |MI \                                    \                 dlLES  0              100             200             300
f ZflNDA 4) | +     ffi                0               (                       I             I                  i                I
KILOMETERS 0        100       200        300       400        S00
~'S       M 8ANZA                                  ____   ___  ____   ___  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _
;  ZAIRE                    )        f                                           20 *24 
. T-mto.     U! /l '5E1
z   ^  2  /  i  OI R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c                         E                                 .-  
tU5,  j         t         i                       >20           lUf921D, N0?TE
LUANDA                                      AVL,Nf;JL
LUANDA4\                                  MAANJE
C'c-'~                                    X      - ANSX                                                                        i
12                                                                                                                                            1
NAMIOE ~         ~T#noBow aANGOA< _                                                                
16                                                    ll  11
12                                        16                                          20
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ag _1 II                                             _1 



IBRD 231 81
GABON                                         KE wAN A                               ANGOLA
PR
C Oh.NO                                         LOBITO-BENGUELA URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL
,;'AGOL  \    _            ZAIRE       TANZANIA                                REHABILITATION  PROJECT
,  X1     MALAVO                    PROJECT LOCATION
ANGCOA 
\ 1- _k?%qU L                     X 01 PROJECT LOCAT1ON  -.* .  RAILROADS
-. I ~~~~ZAMBIA 
0     SELECTED TOWNS          +     AJRPORTS
Z Z,MS AIhVE   3 ' A  >              ()    PROVINCE CAPITALS       4.    PORTS
NAMIBIA                 
_   .  .  ROTEWANA                            151 f   q -NATIONAL CAPITAL          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
12                                         MI                        -       MAIN ROADS                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PR. OF
q,/J .....THE CONGO
CATJTVA                                                               MIEES  0              I00            200              300
CABINDA.. +                                                                                  I               I 
I         IIIT
KILOMETERS 0       100       200        300       400       500
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
-MAIBE  2AIBE '100           tz                                                  20  ZAIR
LUAN <g X IA t ASAu                                                                                  {        v
LUANDA F t A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAURIMO 
/^liAIIC     ENGO=;+S   
P   t.b             I.ANs    4                                      UNDA djLg                            1tbr/mbrsh.
12162
BIA
NAMIBEr- B) /Dv 4GC,of\
T_                  I                                    r.NW,odhw   
16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ADs 199



ANGOLA
LOBITO / BENGUELA URBAN
ENVIRONMENTAL REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTED COMPONENTS
PDr.of t.bi
PROJECT COMPONENTS:                                     LOBiTO
WATER TREATMENT PLANTS
WATER PUMPING STATIONS
-   WATER RESERVOIRS
A   SEWAGE PUMPING STATIONS
*   OXIDATION PONDS
VALA DO CORINGE STORM DRAINAGE CHANNEL
AGRICULTURAL AREAS
_   ROADS
RAILROADS
RIVERS
BUILT-UP AREAS
AIRPORTS
..PORT
INTERNATIONAL fOUNDARIES
0       2        A        6        a
BENGUELA    >11            . t t   S                                                   KitOMETERS
20'                              KENA   00'
g  \  j                  *     \      \                       W    ;              sx  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANZANIA
N                               ~~~~~~~~ANGOLA-~           C
L;Z' AMBIA.
K   A         V&
NAMIRIA J- ROTSAA).
/JSOUF AFRICA
|30'                          ZO- -0                -
T.Lng                                                                        0'           2' 



