Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2326 ANG
Swedish Grant Agreement
(Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental
Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of development
aid funds provided by
THE GOVERNMENT OF SWEDEN
Dated June 17, 1994
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2326 ANG
SWEDISH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (the Grantee) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of the Swedish Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by the 
Government of Sweden (Sweden).
WHEREAS: (A) Sweden has agreed to make available a grant (the Swedish Grant) 
through the Administrator to the Grantee to assist in the financing of Parts A and B 
of the Lobito-Benguela Urban Environment Rehabilitation Project (the Project), 
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement dated February 13, 1992, 
between the Grantee and the Association on the terms and conditions hereinafter set 
forth;
(B)
by an agreement between Sweden and the Association (the Administration 
Agreement), Sweden has requested the Association, and the Association has accepted, to 
administer the Swedish Grant in accordance with the provisions of the Administration 
Agreement;
(C)
the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Grantee under this agreement (the Swedish Grant Agreement) shall be considered as part 
of the bilateral develop-ment aid extended by Sweden to the Grantee; and
(D)
the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
to extend the Swedish Grant to the Grantee in support of the Project, upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Develop-ment Credit 
Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement subject, however, to the following 
modifications thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Swedish Grant 
pursuant to the Administration Agreement, except in the phrase "member of the 
Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Swedish Grant Agreement;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Swedish Grant;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the account opened by the Administrator in its books in the name of the Grantee to 
which the amount of the Swedish Grant is credited;
(e)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the Association 
acting in its own capacity;
(f)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date, or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a report of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
activities referred to in the Preamble to the Swedish Grant Agreement, 
the performance by the Grantee and the Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Swedish Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of 
the 
purposes of the Swedish Grant."; and
(g)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 
(a), and Article XII are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Administration 
Agreement, and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the term "Swedish Kroner" or "SEK" means the currency of Sweden.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of thirty million 
Swedish Kroner (SEK 30,000,000) or such other amount as shall have been made available 
by Sweden to the Administrator for this purpose pursuant to the Administration 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Swedish Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Grantee and 
the Administrator for expenditures made (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required for the 
Project.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Grantee on goods and services or in the importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply thereof.
Page  3
(c)
The Grantee shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator. Deposits into and payments out of the Swedish Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with Schedule II of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Consultants and experts acceptable to the Administrator shall 
be employed by the Grantee on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator 
for the provision of services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant. 
Such consultants and experts shall be selected in accor-dance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Administrator on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (the 
Guide-lines), published by the Bank in August 1981. No substitution of such 
consultants and experts or modification of the terms and conditions of their 
employment shall be made except with the prior consent of the Administrator.
(b)
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the procurement of 
goods and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992.
(c)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the proce-dures set forth or referred to 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way 
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under 
this Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Swedish Grant as, 
in the Ad-ministrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-ing out of the proceeds of the 
Swedish Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Grantee declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Grantee shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Grantee shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
     (ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as avail-able, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said audi-tors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa-tion concerning 
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Grantee shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-dance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
Page  4
expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effectiveness as of the date first 
above written or the date of the Administration Agreement, whichever is the later, and 
shall continue in effect until the Swedish Grant has been fully disbursed and the 
parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Recipient and the 
Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
ARTICLE VI
Representative; Transfer of Rights
and Obligations
Section 6.01. The Provincial Governor of Benguela shall be the representative of 
the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Provincial Government of Benguela
  Palácio do Governo
P.O. Box 1
Benguela
People's Republic of Angola
Cable address:
Telex:
Governo Provincial
8059 COMPROV AN
  de Benguela
BENGUELA
Facsimile:
34526
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 INDEVAS
248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
Page  5
197688 (TRT)
Section 6.03. In accordance with the provisions of the Administration Agreement, 
the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be 
transferred to Sweden. The Grantee accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Grantee to that effect, Sweden shall, ipso facto, from the date 
specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agree-ment as if Sweden had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality being required on the part of any 
party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or 
obligations as a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By /s/ José G. M. Patricio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator of the Swedish Grant
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
 Amount of the
Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in Expenditures
 Category           SEK)       
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
  18,000,000
100%
(2)
Equipment,
   3,000,000
100%
Vehicles,
Materials and
Supplies
(3)
Consultants'
   1,000,000
100%
Services
(4)
Training
   1,000,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
   7,000,000
100%
TOTAL
  30,000,000
SCHEDULE II
The Swedish Special Account
Page  6
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Swedish Grant;
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $150,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Swedish Grant Account and deposited into the Sweden Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Swedish 
Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with 
the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Swedish Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Swedish Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Grantee shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not 
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Grantee, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit in the Swedish Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Grantee shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Swedish Special Account, the Grantee 
shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Swedish Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator 
shall specify.
    (ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Grantee shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Grantee, withdraw from the Swedish Grant Account and deposit 
into the Swedish Special Account such amount as the Grantee shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Swedish Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Administrator from the Swedish Grant Account in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Grantee out of the Swedish Special Account, the 
Grantee shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Swedish Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Grantee directly from the Swedish Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Swedish Grant less the amount of 
any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Swedish Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Swedish Grant shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall 
specify by notice to the Grantee. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after 
and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Swedish Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
Page  7
out of the Swedish Special Account:
(i) 
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
     (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, 
the Grantee shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Swedish Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall 
so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Administrator into the Swedish Special 
Account shall be made until the Grantee has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Swedish Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Grantee shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Grantee may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Swedish Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Swedish Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
