Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO
CREDIT NUMBER 2326 ANG
Norwegian Grant Agreement
(Lobito-Benguela Urban Environmental Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of development
aid funds provided by
The Kingdom of Norway
Dated December 22, 1994
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2326 ANG
NORWEGIAN GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (Angola) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION acting as Administrator (the Administrator) of 
the Grant (as hereinafter defined) provided by The Kingdom of Norway (Norway).
WHEREAS Angola has requested the assistance of the International Development 
Association (the Association) and Norway in the financing of its Lobito-Benguela Urban 
Environmental Rehabilitation Project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 to the 
Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 2326 ANG) dated February 13, 1992, between 
the Republic of Angola and the Association;
WHEREAS the Association has extended a Credit for the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the above-mentioned Development Credit Agreement, and Norway 
has authorized the Administrator to extend to Angola for the same purposes a grant out 
of Norway's development aid funds (the Grant) to assist Angola on the terms and 
conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between Norway and the Association 
(the Administration Agreement), Norway has requested the Association, and the 
Association has accepted, to administer the Grant in accordance with the provisions of 
that agreement;
WHEREAS Angola acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to Angola 
under this Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral development aid 
extended by Norway to Angola; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to Angola in support of the Project, upon the terms and conditions 
Page  2
set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
the term "Association," whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the agreement of even date herewith between Norway and the Association, 
except in the provisions "member(s) of the Association" occurring in Section 2.01 (5), 
4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Borrower," whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
Angola;
(c)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit," whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant extended to Angola under this Agreement;
(e)
the term "Credit Account," whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Trust Account opened by the Administrator in its books in the name of Angola to 
which the amount of the Norwegian Grant is credited;
(f)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
(g)
in Section 9.06 (c) the term "Closing Date" means the closing date set 
forth in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement; and
(h)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement dated March 23, 1988 
between the Republic of Angola and the Association for the Project, as such agreement 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the "General Conditions 
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 
1985, as applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b)
Norwegian Kroner" and "NOK" mean the currency of Norway.
Section 1.03. In all Articles, Sections and Schedules of the Development Credit 
Agreement explicitly incorporated into this Agreement, the references to the 
"Borrower," the "Association," the "Credit," and the "Credit Account" shall be deemed 
to be references to Angola, the Administrator, the Grant, and the Trust Account and 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, respectively.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to Angola, on the terms and 
conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of twenty-two million 
Norwegian Kroner (NOK 22,000,000) together with interest thereon (if any), or such 
other amount as shall have been made available by Norway to the Administrator for this 
purpose pursuant to the Administration Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Trust Account in 
accordance with the Schedule to this Agreement for expenditures made (or if the 
Page  3
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the 
services required for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998, or such later date 
as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify Angola 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Article III, Article IV and Section 5.01 of the Development Credit 
Agreement and Schedules 2 and 3 thereto are hereby incorporated into this Agreement 
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
Section 3.02. Procurement of any office and associated equipment shall be 
undertaken by the consultants selected by Angola to assist in carrying out the 
Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Angola shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of Angola responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Angola shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Administrator shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Termination; Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. This Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall 
terminate on the date, following the final disbursement under this Agreement, on which 
Angola shall have fulfilled all its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. In accordance with the Administration Agreement, the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be transferred to Norway. 
Angola accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to Angola to that 
effect, Norway shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice, be 
substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement as 
if Norway had been an original party to this Agreement, without any further action or 
formality required on the part of any party, and from such date the Administrator 
shall cease to have any rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Representative of Angola; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of Angola responsible for Finance is designated as 
representative of Angola for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For Angola:
Provincial Government of Benguela
Palácio do Governo
Page  4
P.O. Box 1
Benguela
Republic of Angola
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
8059 COMPROVAN
Governo Provincial
Benguela
  de Benguela
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
197688 (TRT)
 64145 (WUI)
 89287 (FTTC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By /s/ José Patricio
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of development aid funds
provided by The Kingdom of Norway
By /s/ Katherine Marshall
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed in the Category over time in accordance with a 
consultants' contract:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
NOK Equivalent)
to be Financed
Consultants'
   22,000,000 100%
services under
a consultants'
Page  5
contract
TOTAL
   22,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
