Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2326 ANG
(Lobito Benguela Urban Environmental
Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 13, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2326 ANG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 1992, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
       (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from Swedish International Development 
Agency (SIDA) a grant (the SIDA Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the SIDA Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and SIDA; and
       (C)  the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of Norway Development 
Agency (NORAD) a grant (the NORAD Grant) to assist in financing part of the Project on 
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the NORAD Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and NORAD; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "DPSC" means Direccao Provincial dos Servicos Comunitarios, the Provincial 
Directorate for Community Services of the province of Benguela;
      (b)   "EPAB" means Empresa Provincial de aguas de Benguela, the Provincial Water 
Company of Benguela, established pursuant to Despacho No. 46/76 dated December 28, 
1976;
      (c)   "GPP" means Gabinete Provincial do Plano do Governo da Provincia de 
Benguela, the Provincial Planning Office of the province of Benguela;
      (d)   "Implementation Agreements" means the agreements entered into among the 
provincial government of Benguela and the agencies responsible for Project 
implementation, as set forth in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (e)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement;
      (f)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
February 14, 1990, March 16, 1990; and September 26, 1991 between the Borrower and the 
Association;
      (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
      (h)   "fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which runs from January 1 
to December 31.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty three million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
33,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower, through GPP, shall for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Page  3
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1998 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing June 15, 2002, and ending December 15, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 15, 2011 shall be one 
per cent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay 
twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through GPP, in accordance with the terms of Decreto Executivo Conjunto 
No. 66/91 of August 15, 1991, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
Page  4
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices, and 
shall provide GPP promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) shall take and cause to be taken all 
action to enable the provincial government of Benguela, GPP, EPAB and DPSC to perform 
their respective obligations under the Implementation Agreements.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower, through GPP, shall not later than thirty (30) days 
after the Effective Date: (a) open and maintain an account in dollars, or such other 
currency as may be acceptable to the Association, in a commercial bank (the Project 
Account), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; (b) promptly 
thereafter, make an initial deposit into such account, in dollars or such other 
currency as may be acceptable to the Association, in an amount equivalent to three 
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000) to finance the Borrower's contribution to the 
Project; and (c) deposit every four months, into the Project Account, such amounts in 
dollars
or such other currency as may be acceptable to the Association, as shall be required 
to timely replenish the Project Account. 
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall not later than eighteen 
months after the Effective Date, conduct a mid-term Project implementation review to:
            (i)
monitor progress in: (A) carrying out the Project; (B) the 
performance of the Borrower's provincial government of Benguela, 
GPP, EPAB and DPSC under the Implementation Agreements; (C) the 
implementation of cost recovery mechanisms established under the 
Project, including those referred to under Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement; (D) the implementation of the environmental action 
plan based on the studies referred to under Part D.3 of the 
Project; and (E) the implementation of the land registration pilot 
program based on the studies referred to under Part D.4 of the 
Project.
           (ii)
discuss and agree on an implementation program, including an 
action plan and a timetable to be implemented until the completion 
of the Project for the: (A) periodic revision of water and sewer 
tariffs; (B) institutional reorganization of EPAB based on the 
recommendations of the study referred to under Part D.1 of the 
Project; and (C) approval and implementation of cost recovery 
mechanisms referred to under Parts A.1; A.2; A.4; and B.1 (a) of 
the Project including fees and prices for goods and services under 
the Project;
          (iii)
discuss and coordinate all other related technical assistance 
financed by other donor agencies and cofinanciers; and
           (iv)
exchange information among staff of the Borrower responsible for 
Project implementation and propose coordinated solutions to any 
current issues.
      (b)   Not later than four weeks prior to such review, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association for its review and comments a report in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably
request, including:
            (i)
an evaluation of progress achieved in Project implementation 
pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the Implementation 
Agreements; and
           (ii)
a draft implementation program to be carried out until completion 
of the Project, including: (A) detailed technical assistance and 
training programs; (B) measures taken to maintain qualified local 
counterpart staff responsible for Project implementation; (C) an 
Page  5
updated procurement program detailing goods and works to be 
procured under the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (D) a progress report on the 
implementation of the action plan to provide housing, office space 
and transportation for consultants employed under the Project.
      (c)   Promptly after completing the mid-term review, carry out those 
recommendations arising out of said review as agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall during the execution of the Project:
      (a)   maintain, with functions, responsibilities, experience, qualifications and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, the staff responsible for Project 
implementation as set forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (b)   and take all necessary measures to make available housing, office space 
and transportation to consultants employed under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause GPP to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower, through GPP, shall:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year, audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
           (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall 
through GPP:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
           (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
           (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Page  6
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)   (i)
Subject to paragraph (ii) of this Section:
 
                  (A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
                  (B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
           (ii)
Paragraph (a) (i) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
      (b)   The provincial government of Benguela, GPP, EPAB and DPSC have failed to 
perform any of their respective obligations under the Implementation Agreements.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the provincial government of Benguela, GPP, EPAB or DPSC, as 
the case may be, will be able to perform their respective obligations under the 
Implementation Agreements.
      (d)   Decreto Executivo Conjunto No. 66/91 dated August 15, 1991; Despacho  No. 
46/76 dated December 28, 1976 establishing EPAB; Decreto No. 193/79, dated June 20, 
1979 establishing GPP; Decreto No. 13/82, dated March 16, 1982 establishing DPSC; and 
Law No. 12/88, dated July 9, 1988 establishing the framework law of the Ministry of 
Planning of the Borrower, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially the ability of the Borrower, its ministries, and 
provincial government and agencies to perform any of their respective obligations 
under this Agreement; and
      (e)   the Borrower or any other provincial authority having jurisdiction shall 
have taken any action concerning the Borrower's water, sanitation, housing and 
environmental policies that would materially and adversely affect the objectives of 
the Project.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)   that any of the events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   that the event specified in paragraph (a) (i) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Association has received from the Borrower satisfactory evidence that: 
(i) GPP's Director has been confirmed by the provincial governor of Benguela as 
Project Manager; and (ii) GPP's Project Technical Coordinator; Financial Controller; 
and Procurement Advisor, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, have been selected and employed in accordance with terms of reference set 
Page  7
forth in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (b)   a contract, satisfactory to the Association, has been entered into between 
GPP and consultants selected to assist the Borrower in carrying out the studies 
referred to under Parts D.1. and D.2. of the Project; and
      (c)   the Borrower has taken all necessary measures to cause the provincial 
government of Benguela to approve and implement a water tariff schedule acceptable to 
the Association.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that this Agreement has been duly ratified by the Borrower's Council of 
Ministers and is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Implementation Agreements have been legally executed and are 
binding upon the Borrower, GPP, EPAB and DPSC in accordance with their respective 
terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Provincial Governor of Benguela is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the  purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Provincial Government of Benguela
              Palacio do Governo
            P.O.Box 1
            Benguela
            People's Republic of Angola
            Cable address:                   Telex:
                  GOVERNO PROVINCIAL         8059 COMPROV AN
                    DE BENGUELA              BENGUELA
                                             Facsimile: 
           34526
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  8
                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
                        By /s/ Afonso Van Dunem
Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
     under:
     (a) Parts A.1, A.2;        11,000,000      100% of foreign
         and A.3 (a); and                       expenditures
     (b) Parts A.3 (b), B.1,     2,300,000      90%
         B.3, C.5 (c),
         C.5 (d).
(2)  (a) Equipment and          2,700,000       100% of foreign
         vehicles;                              expenditures
     (b) materials and          1,000,000       90%
         supplies; and
     (c) logistical             1,000,000       100%
         support
(3)  Consultants' services,     7,000,000       100% of foreign
     studies, and audits                        expenditures
(4)  Training                  600,000          90%
(5)  Project                     600,000        Amount due
     Preparation                                pursuant to
     Advance                                    Section 2.02 (c)
                                                of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated               7,400,000
         TOTAL                33,600,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  9
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "logistical support" means cost of: (i) telecommunications 
equipment; (ii) computer equipment and software; (iii) office equipment; (iv) 
furniture and appliances referred to under Part C.5 (c) of the Project; and (v) repair 
of buildings under Parts A.4 (b) and C.5 (d) of the Project; and
      (d)   the term "training" means cost of fellowships, seminars, workshops, 
courses, study tours, internships and other costs related to activities to be 
undertaken as part of: (i) training programs financed under the Project; and (ii) the 
sanitary environmental education program referred to under Part B.2 (a) of the 
Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
      (b)   expenditures under Category (1) (a), unless the Association has received 
documentary evidence, satisfactory to it, certifying the Borrower's legal ownership, 
including non existence of encumbrances, of land where civil works financed under the 
Credit will be carried out under Part A of the Project; and 
      (c)   expenditures under Categories 1 (b) and 2 (a), unless the Association has 
received documentary evidence, satisfactory to it, confirming the availability of 
cofinancing and the effectiveness of the SIDA and the NORAD Grant Agreements.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) restore the water supply and sanitary 
systems of the Borrower; (b) improve living conditions in the province of Benguela; 
and (c) strengthen the provincial institutions responsible for Project implementation.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Environmental Sanitation
1.    Water Supply Rehabilitation and Distribution:
      (a)   (i) rehabilitation of present networks; (ii) increased production of 
installed capacity; (iii) extension of distribution of municipal water supply and 
treatment system in Lobito and Benguela; and (iv) development of two new wellfields;
      (b)   installation of a network of about 500 standpipes and wash basins in the 
cities of Lobito, Benguela and Catumbela; and
      (c)   design and implementation of: (i) operation and maintenance; and (ii) cost 
recovery mechanisms for the water supply system.
2.    Sanitary Sewerage System Rehabilitation:
      (a)   (i) rehabilitation; and (ii) expansion of the present network including 
construction of pumping stations and treatment plants in Lobito and Benguela; and
      (b)   design and implementation of: (i) operation and maintenance; and (ii) cost 
recovery mechanisms for the sanitary sewerage system.
3.    Storm Drainage System Rehabilitation:
      (a)   rehabilitation of the Vala do Coringe storm drainage system in the city of 
Benguela; and
      (b)   construction of storm drainage retention dams in Lobito and Catumbela.
4.    Solid Waste Management:
      (a)   (i) institutional reorganization and strengthening of solid waste 
collection and disposal system; (ii) strengthening of DPSC's solid waste management 
Page  10
capabilities; and (iii) training of municipal staff in solid waste management 
techniques in Lobito, Benguela and Catumbela;
      (b)   repair of the municipal vehicle maintenance workshops;
      (c)   development and implementation of a strategic plan for solid waste 
management; and
      (d)   design and implementation of cost recovery mechanisms for the solid waste 
management system.
Part B:     Low Income Sanitation
1.    Improved Latrine Program:
      (a)   production, sale and distribution of improved pit latrines, and 
supervision of their installation in Lobito, Benguela and Catumbela;
      (b)   promotion and provision of training for the implementation of the improved 
latrine program; and
      (c)   design and implementation of cost recovery mechanisms for the improved 
latrine program.
2.    Sanitary Environmental Education:
      (a)   carrying out a sanitary environmental education program; and
      (b)   carrying out environmental health-related studies.
3.    Urban Revegetation:
      Planting trees, grasses and shrubs in urban areas.
Part C:    Institutional Development
1.    Strengthening of GPP's managerial and Project implementation capabilities.
2.    Strengthening of DPSC's capabilities in:
      (a)   solid waste collection and disposal;
      (b)   vehicle and equipment maintenance; and
      (c)   carrying out the low-income sanitation program.
3.    Strengthening of EPAB's capabilities in:
      (a)   operations management;
      (b)   systems maintenance; and
      (c)   financial management.
4.    Training:
      (a)   on-the-job and overseas training of GPP staff;
      (b)   on-the-job and overseas training of EPAB staff;
      (c)   on-the-job and overseas training of DPSC staff; and
      (d)   training of staff responsible for Project implementation.
5.    Project Management:
      (a)   provision of logistical and administrative support to GPP, EPAB and DPSC;
      (b)   acquisition of telecommunications equipment;
      (c)   repair, equipping and furnishing of housing assigned to foreign long-term 
consultants employed under the Project; and
Page  11
      (d)   repair of office facilities for GPP, EPAB and DPSC.
6.   Geographical Information System:
      (a)   design and implementation of a Land Registration Geographical Information 
System (LARGIS); and
      (b)   strengthening of GPP's capabilities to complete and implement the LARGIS.
Part D:     Studies
      Carrying out the following:
1.    Water and sewerage tariff study;
2.    institutional reorganization of EPAB study;
3.    environmental management and monitoring studies;
4.    land registration study; and
5.    other studies related to the urban development sector jointly identified and 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association during Project implementation.
*  *  *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $500,000 or more, respectively shall be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Bidders for works referred to under Parts A.1; A.2; and A.3 (a) of the Project 
shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more.
4.    Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third-party 
inspection firm.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Local Competitive Bidding:
      Goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $500,000, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $9,250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Force Account:
      Works referred to under Parts B.1 and B.3 of the Project estimated to cost an 
aggregate amount of not more than $800,000 may be carried out by force account.
Part C:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
      With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:     Project Management
      (a)   GPP's Director shall be appointed as Project Manager responsible for the 
overall Project implementation.
      (b)   The Project Manager shall have, inter alia, the following functions: (i) 
coordination and monitoring of all technical and managerial aspects of Project 
implementation; (ii) ensuring appropriate compliance with the provisions of this 
Agreement and the Implementation Agreements; (iii) timely contracting and supervision 
of the performance of technical assistance and all studies carried out under the 
Project; (v) ensuring and maintaining appropriate local counterpart staff
during Project implementation; (vi) prompt allocation of housing office space, and 
transportation to consultants employed under the Project; (vi) supervision of Project 
financial accounts; (vii) timely compliance with reporting, auditing and other 
financial covenants under Article IV of this Agreement; and (viii) liaising of Project 
activities with central and provincial government agencies.
      (c)   In addition to the Project Manager, GPP shall include the following key 
staff, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association:
            (i)
A Project Technical Coordinator, who shall be responsible, inter 
alia, for the following: (A) assist the Project Manager in the 
overall Project coordination with the support of local staff; (B) 
supervise and monitor the performance of all works, consultants' 
services and studies financed under the Project; and (B) jointly 
with the Financial Controller, develop and maintain budgets and 
systems of cost control, critical path and financial performance 
and key indicators for each Project component. 
           (ii)
A Financial Controller, who shall be responsible, inter alia, for 
the following: (A) with the support of qualified local accounting 
Page  13
staff, keep financial accounts for the Project; (B) ensure 
appropriate compilation and maintenance of Project documentation 
and files; (C) prepare and maintain consolidated statements of 
expenditures, quarterly Project progress reports and internal 
audits, in sufficient detail and format satisfactory to the 
Association; and (D) manage the Project Account, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and the 
Special Account in accordance with terms and conditions described 
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
          (iii)
A Procurement Advisor, who shall be responsible, inter alia, for 
carrying out, in close coordination with the Project Manager, the 
Technical Coordinator and the Financial Controller, the following: 
(A) all procurement procedures for the contracting of works and 
acquisition of equipment, vehicles, materials, computer systems, 
supplies and employment of consultants' services financed under 
the Project, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and (B) procurement of works and services 
necessary for the repair and furnishing of housing for foreign 
long-term consultants employed under the Project.
Part B:     Implementation Agreements
1.    The Borrower's provincial government of Benguela, GPP, EPAB and DPSC shall enter 
into implementation agreements which shall, inter alia, include the following:
      (a)   identification of functions of the specific institutions responsible for 
the execution of the respective Project components; and
      (b)   description of necessary coordination mechanisms.
2.   The following Implementation Agreements shall be entered into:
      (a)   EPAB Implementation Agreement, between GPP and EPAB, for Parts A.1; A.2; 
C.3; C.4 (b); C.5 (a); C.5 (c); C.5 (d); D.1; and D.2 of the Project; and
      (b)   DPSC Implementation Agreement, between GPP and DPSC, for Parts A.3; A.4; 
B; C.2; C.4 (c); C.5; and D.3 of the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to itthat the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
Page  14
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  15
