Document of                      i
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3228-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
March 1, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS /1
US$1            =   Won 710
US$1 million    =   Won 0.71 billion
Won 1           =   US$0.00141
Won 1 million   =   US$1,408
Won 1 billion   =   US$1.41 million
ABBREVIATIONS
FKI         -   Federation of Korean Industries
GNP         -   Gross National Product
Government  -   Government of the Republic of Korea
KAIST       -   Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KDB         -   Korea Development Bank
KIET        -   Korea Institute of Electronic Technology
KIST        -   Korea Institute of Science and technology
KOPTEC      -   Korea Production Technology Corporation
KTAC        -   Korea Technology Advancement Corporation
KTDC        -   Korea Technology Development Corporation
MIT/CPA     -   Massachusetts Institute of Technology/Center for Policy
Alternatives
MOST        -   Ministry of Science and Technology
R&D         -   Research and Development
RD&E        -   Research, Development and Engineering
SMI         -   Small and Medium Scale Industry
TDR         -   Technology Development Reserve
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
/1 As of February 15, 1982.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower             : Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC)
Guarantor            : Republic of Korea
Amount               : $50 million, including the capitalized front-end fee
Terms                : Payable in 14 years including five years of grace at an
interest rate of 11.6% per annum.
Relending Terms    : KTDC will onlend proceeds of the loan to subborrowers
receiving conventional loans at an interest rate of
at least 13.85% p. a., which would allow KTDC a mini-
mum spread of 2.25%. The maximum repayment period for
conventional loans would be 10 years including a grace
period of up to 3 years. KTDC would provide conditional
loans to subborrowers for a maximum period of 15 years
and would receive royalty payments calculated as a
percentage of sales revenues in lieu of repayment of
principal and interest.
Project Description:  The overall objective of the project is to foster the
technological development of Korean industry. The
project will help establish and develop KTDC whose
primary purpose will be to provide financial assistance
for relatively risky software-intensive Research,
Development and Engineering (RD&E) subprojects.
Specifically the project would consist of two major
components:
(a) Institutional development of KTDC comprising
(i) consulting services to strengthen KTDC's project
appraisal and implementation capabilities, and to
assist KTDC in carrying out periodic studies
and surveys of Korean industry's RD&E programs
and areas of potential development; and
invitation of experts from other institutions in
Bank member countries that are of similar nature
to KTDC to help train KTDC staff; and
(ii) training of KTDC staff and the purchase of
educational materials;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(b)  A line of credit to help cover the estimated foreign
exchange requirements of subprojects to be financed
by KTDC during 1982-1984.
Project risks are related mainly to the need to
provide adequate governmental financial support
during KTDC's institution-building stage to ensure
that KTDC fulfills its objective of financing risky
RD&E projects. Provisions have been included in the
project to mitigate substantially this risk.
$ million    Percent
Project Costs       : N.A.
Financing Plan
(1981-1984)       : Equity - Private                      12.5          14
Government                  8.5           9
Subtotal                       21.0          23
Loans - Government                   21.0          23
IBRD                        50.0          54
Subtotal                  71.0          77
Total Financing Required       92.0         100
Estimated
Disbursements        Bank FY           1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
----  US$ million  ---- -
Annual            12.1    15.8    14.8      6.5      0.8
Cumulative        12.1    27.9    42.7    49.2    50.0
Staff Appraisal
Report               No. 3707-KO dated February 25, 1982.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Korea Technology Development Corporation (KTDC), with the
guarantee of the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $50.0 million,
including the capitalized front-end fee. The loan would have a term of 14
years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The
terms applicable to subborrowers for conventional loans would include a
maximum repayment period of 10 years, including 3 years of grace with
interest of at least 13.85% per annum; for conditional loans, the maximum
repayment period would be 15 years, with royalty payments, calculated as a
percentage of sales revenues, in lieu of repayment of principal and
interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Current Developments
and Policy Issues" was distributed under cover of Sec M80-449, dated May 20,
1980. The following paragraphs are based on this Report together with
updating information obtained during Bank missions in March/April 1981 and
November 1981. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
A. Past Performance
3.        During the last two decades, Korea achieved remarkable economic
progress. At the beginning of the 1960s, Korea was one of the poorest
developing countries, with heavy dependence on agriculture and a weak balance
of payments, financed almost entirely by foreign grants. By the late 1970s it
had become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a strong external
payments position. During 1960-1978, GNP grew by 9% p.a., and per capita
income more than tripled in real terms. The manufacturing sector grew at
18% a year in constant prices, increasing its share in GNP from 14 to 27%.
At the same time the share of agriculture fell from 36 to 22%. Merchandise
exports, principally manufactured goods, rose from $33 million in 1960 to
$13 billion in 1978. The growth of exports was 27% p.a. in real terms and
exports in 1978 constituted 34% of GNP, as against a mere 4% in 1960.
4.        Rapid industrial growth, based on the expansion of export-oriented
manufactured goods, contributed to high rates of growth of employment. More
than 2 million jobs, constituting more than 40% of total additional
employment, were created in manufacturing during 1962-76, the years
/l This section is substantially the same as the one in the President's
Report on the Water Supply Project (No. P-3160-KO dated November 30,
1981), which was distributed under cover of a memorandum dated
November 30, 1981.



- 2 -
-orresponlin-C , the first three Five-Year Development Plans.  Unemployment
duritg these years deciined from 8 to 4%, while real wages increased by more
than 7% p.a. The rising demand for labor in the industrial and urban sectors
caused heavy out -nigration from the rural areas. Nevertheless, value-added
in agriculture grew at 4% a year, indicating a fairly good rate of
productivity growth in this important sector, which still employs more than
a third of the labor force. This performance, combined with deliberate
government policies after 1968 to improve the agricultural terms of trade,
tended to ensure growth in per capita rural incomes more or less in line
with the rest of the economy. While there has been some worsening of income
distribution during the seventies, Korea compares favorably with most
developing countries and the ratio of the urban and rural population below
the poverty line is estimated to be under 15%.
B. Adjustment to the First Oil Crisis
5.        Between 1973 and 1978, Korea succeeded in achieving a high rate of
growth (10% p.a.) and substantial external adjustment, despite a total depen-
dency on imports for its petroleum needs and the quadrupling of oil import
prices between 1972 and 1974. Among the policy instruments which contributed
to Korea's success in rapidly overcoming the effects of the first oil crisis
were: (a) devaluation in 1974; (b) continued emphasis on export diversi-
fication in products as well as markets; (c) restraint in wage increases; and
(d) an increase in public sector savings, mainly reflecting a strong tax
effort. Notwithstanding the recession in developed countries and growing
protectionism, the growth in export volume averaged 23% p.a. during 1974-78,
thereby contributing to the high growth momentum. In addition, increased
borrowing from abroad helped to maintain the rate of growth. The Korean
economy also gained from an improvement in terms of trade during 1976-78
(reflecting in part a decline in the real price of oil from the peak of
1974-75), and a spectacular growth in overseas construction contracts.
6.        However, the very success of the Korean planners in stimulating
growth during 1975-78 seriously strained the economy. With export volume
doubling, the level of real fixed investment also doubling, and the terms of
trade improving by 28% between 1975 and 1978, aggregate demand (consumption,
investment and exports) grew by an unprecedented 57%. This rapid expansion
understandably created bottlenecks in the economy and created inflationary
pressures. In addition, aided by subsidized credit directed by the
Government through the financial system, the sharp growth in investment was
focused on the heavy and chemical industries. While this trend was in line
with the Government-s view of the changing comparative advantage of Korean
industry, the investment in some key areas was excessive, leading to poor
capacity utilization, while in some other areas investment lagged. Also,
labor markets witnessed a major transformation in this period. Nonagricul-
tural employment expanded by 30% and employment in the construction sector
increased by 61%. At the same time, a significant part of the existing
construction work force went abroad to work on overseas construction
contracts. Reflecting the tightening of the labor market, money wages in
manufacturing increased by 33% p.a. during 1975-78, and real wages growth (at



- 3 -
around 18% p.a.) clearly outstripped the 10% annual growth In productivity.
The rate of growth of money supply and domestic credit also accelerated.
The resulting sharp rise in Korea's price level, compared with its major
trading partners, combined with exchange rate rigidity after 1974, eroded
export competitiveness. By the end of 1978, export volume was showing signs
of stagnating.
C. Developments in 1979 and 1980
7.        In order to tackle the problem of inflation and structural imbal-
ances, the Government announced in April 1979 a far-reaching program of
stabilization-cum-restructuring. The general strategy was to follow tight
monetary and fiscal policies while initiating basic structural changes aimed
at giving greater play to market forces, further opening up the economy to
international competition, and providing direct assistance to the poor.
Specific measures included a reduction in the Government program of construc-
tion and rural housing, lower fiscal deficits, a sharp reduction in the
growth of domestic credit, a review of investment projects in heavy and
chemical industries, decontrol of prices of a large number of commodities,
vigorous pursuit of import liberalization, lowering of tariff rates on
necessities, and a program of direct assistance to the poor in order to soften
the impact of price decontrol.  In the light of the above stabilization
program, the Government prepared a new Economic Management Plan for 1979-81,
scaling down the targets for growth, exports, and investment in the original
F -r.urth Five-Year Plan (1977-81) for these years, and allowing for a higher
level of foreign capital inflows than envisaged in the Plan.
8.        Unfortunately, however, the economic program embodied in the
Economic Management Plan was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks; and
during 1979 and 1980, the Korean economy experienced the most difficult period
in its recent history. The oil price hikes in 1979 and 1980 raised Korea-s
petroleum import bill from about $2.3 billion in 1978 to $6.2 billion in 1980
with the price-induced increase equal to nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In
October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the chief architect of Korea's
"economic miracle" since the mid-sixties was assassinated.  This was followed
by a period of the severest political uncertainty and social unrest in twenty
years (with the situation returning to normal only after the ascendancy of a
new Administration under President Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top
of these developments, the weather turned out to be unfavorable, resulting in
a drop in agricultural output of about 22% in 1980, or over 4% of GNP.
Compared to the first oil crisis in 1974, the external shocks during 1979/80
were significantly larger, and this made adjustment considerably more
difficult than in 1974-75. The deflationary effects of these developments
on the economy were exacerbated by the effects of tight financial policies
during 1979-80, and by the weakened competitive position of exports owing
mainly to rising wage rates and (through 1979) exchange rate rigidity.
9.        As a combined result of the various adverse factors, the economy
went into a recession in the second half of 1979, which further deepened
during 1980. The real GNP growth was reduced by half to 6% in 1979, with
the seasonally adjusted GNP declining during the last two quarters of 1979.



-4-
GNP continued to decline during 1980, falling almost 6% for the full year.
While the slowing of real growth in 1979 mainly reflected a decline in real
exports (by about 4%), the contraction of real economic activity in 1980
reflected the fall in fixed capital formation (-15%) and in inventories and
consumption (-1%), which offset an improvement in exports (+10%). The
unemployment rate increased from 3.2% in 1978 to 5.2% in 1980.
10.       The rate of increase of wholesale and consumer prices accelerated
from 12% and 14% respectively in 1978 to 39 percent and 29% in 1980. A large
part of the price increase in 1980 was due to external factors, particularly
oil prices and devaluation of the won. The inflation resulting from domestic
factors reflected in part the reduction of government price controls in 1979
and increases in the administered prices of some food grains. To some
extent, the cost push pressures were accentuated by the tight credit policy
which raised interest costs to producers. Balance of payments developments
in 1979-80 were heavily influenced by the already-mentioned sharp increases
in oil prices and slowdown in growth of exports. The current account deficit
rose from $1.1 billion (2.3% of GNP) in 1978 to $ 4.2 billion (6.9% of GNP)
in 1979, and reached $5.7 billion (10% of GNP) in 1980, a level that could
not be sustained on a long-term basis.
11.       Although mid-1979 through 1980 was a most difficult period for the
Korean economy and the political situation was marked by considerable uncer-
tainty, the Government nevertheless succeeded in taking a number of major
policy initiatives which gave substantial impetus to the adjustment process.
Among these, the most important steps were the January 1980 devaluation of
the won, and the adoption in February 1980 of a flexible exchange rate
policy. The new policy involves adjustment of the value of the won from time
to time on the basis of a multicurrency basket, with other factors affecting
Korea's external position also taken into account. The won depreciated
vis-a-vis the US dollar by a total of 26.7% during the course of 1980 and
the real effective exchange rate in the fourth quarter of 1980 was 11% lower
than that in the corresponding quarter of 1979. Partly due to the exchange
rate depreciation, export volume which was stagnant in 1979 rose by 10% in
1980 and import volume, which rose by 9% in 1979, declined by 7%. The
reduction in imports in 1980 can also be traced to the fall in consumption
expenditure (due to a decline in agricultural incomes following the poor
crop and to a decline in real wages in the manufacturing sector) as well as a
decline in gross fixed investment (due to the slowdown in economic activity).
12.       With continued exchange rate flexibility, the process of adjustment
is expected to be carried further in 1981. The export volume is projected to
increase by 16% and import volume 10%, including extra-ordinary and tempor-
ary rice imports costing about $1 billion (4% of imports). The nonoil trade
surplus is expected to improve further to $2.8 billion, and excluding special
rice imports, to $3.7 billion. However, because of an increase in interest
payments by about $1 billion (rising to $3.2 billion), the current account
deficit in 1981 is projected to remain high at $5.5 billion, or about 8.5% of
GNP, of which 1.5 percentage points is due to the special rice imports as
a result of abnormal weather conditions in 1980.



- 5 -
13.       During 1980 and 1981 the Government has been following a policy of
wage restraint. As a result wages, adjusted by the consumer price index,
declined by about 5% in 1980 and are projected to decline by another 3% in
1981. Another of the major initial adjustments was in domestic energy prices.
The average price of petroleum products was increased by 225% between March
1979 and December 1980.  In addition, the Government adopted a series of
measures in 1980 for the consolidation of investment programs, reduction in
agricultural subsidies, improvement in energy efficiency and improvement in
trade and foreign investment policies. The balance of payments impact of
these adjustments will, as discussed below, be largely felt over the medium
term.
14.       While substantial external adjustment has been obtained in 1980-81,
this has been associated with stagnation in the economy and a continuing
large current account deficit. There are signs of slow recovery in 1981,
and GNP is likely to grow by about 6%; but that would only offset the 6%
decline experienced in 1980. This situation indicates the need for
longer-term structural adjustment so that the external balance can be
improved consistent with restoration of growth momentum. The need for such
a program is heightened by the possibility that international interest rates
might remain high for some time and that real energy prices during the 1980s
may not decline as they did after the first oil crisis.
D. Medium Term Prospects
15.       The Government is in the process of finalizing the Fifth Five-
Year Plan which will cover the years 1982-86. The basic objectives of the
Plan are to restore growth momentum along with the achievement of price
stability and equity. For this purpose, the Plan puts emphasis on (a)
economic stabilization, (b) export promotion and import liberalization,
(c) establishment of a competitive industrial structure, (d) promotion of
the market mechanism, and (e) expansion of social development expenditure.
The goal of price stabilization is to be pursued mainly through reduction
in budgetary deficits and reduction in the growth rate of the money supply.
Export promotion efforts will be helped by price stability as well as by
quality improvement and product innovation. The Plan also proposes a
program of import liberalization as well as tariff reduction to improve
*           price competitiveness.  An important change in industrial policy during the
Plan period will be the reduction of the Government-s role in promoting the
so-called strategic industries. Investment choices will be left
-           increasingly to the initiative of the private sector with the Government
only providing the general framework. For promotion of the market
mechanism, new legislation, designed to increase competition, has already
been enacted and the Government has started a program for liberalization of
the financial sector including denationalization of some of the commercial
banks. The Plan also proposes that relatively more government resources
will be allocated to meet the "basic needs" of people such as education,
housing, social security and improved sanitation and water supply.



-6-
Ext~ernal Capital Requirements
16.       At the last meeting of the Consultative Group for Korea, held in
June 1980, there was a consensus that in spite of the current difficulties,
Korea's longer-term prospects remained good. Among the sources of strength
for the economy are: a large investment base, the young, skilled and
rapidly growing labor force, the scope for exports of capital goods
including construction equipment, and the dynamism of its private sector.
It is generally recognized, however, that even with strenuous government
efforts for structural adjustment, Korea's balance of payments can improve
only over a period of several years. The current account deficit is
expected to be reduced from $5.7 billion (10% of GNP) in 1981 to about $3.6
billion (3% of GNP) by 1986 with the GNP growth rate reviving to 7.6% p.a.
during 1982-86. Allowing for debt service, export credits and addition to
reserves, the gross external capital inflows required during 1982-86 are
estimated to be about $9 billion per year, of which only 15% could be
expected from public sources (excluding Ex-Im banks but including the IMF),
and the rest from private sources.
17.       Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from
traditional suppliers and private banks, credits from Euro-dollar syndicated
loans and bond issues in the Korea-bond and Asian bond market, and is
expected to derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from
such sources. Nonetheless, the magnitude of these external capital
requirements is such that it will have to continue to rely on considerable
capital inflows from official sources.  Servicing of the debt should not pose
difficulties given the present debt service ratio and the continuing emphasis
on export growth. The projected debt service ratio for medium and long term
debt is not likely to rise much above its current figure of 14% of the value
of exports of goods and nonfactor services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS /1
18.       As of September 30, 1981, Korea had received 57 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $3,335 million
in loans and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and
the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that
date, $1,162.3 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on
effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years.
On December 17, 1981, the Executive Directors approved a $90.0 million
equivalent Water Supply Project and a $250.0 million equivalent Structural
Adjustment Loan. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA
Credits, and IFC Investments as of September 30, 1981 and notes on the
/1 This section is substantially the same as the one in the President's
Report on the Water Supply Project (No. P-3160-KO dated November 30,
1981), which was distributed under cover of a memorandum dated
November 30, 1981.



- 7 -
execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes, progress on
project implementation is generally satisfactory, however, delays in several
projects - irrigation, highways and population have occurred due primarily
to shortfalls in government budgetary contributions. The Government is
taking measures to increase local funding of the affected projects.
19.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts: (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining a
high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.
20.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received $410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, $352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, $205 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and the
Citizens National Bank $30 million to meet the financial needs of the small
enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the
numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds through the
fAnancial intermediaries. This has contributed to the overall development
of the industrial sector, and also to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government-s objective of decentralizing
industry.
21.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of
industrialization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of
transport facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the
Government's efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back
to 1962, has played an important role in these developments. Financing of
$432 million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase
the railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling
$334.5 million have been made for highway construction and paving of high
priority sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147.0 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
22.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.



- 8 -
23.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural
output grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country
becoming nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a
steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of
Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian
pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for the
improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155.0 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living
in the rural areas. In 1979, a $125.0 million loan was provided by the Bank
to help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation
water in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood
damage; and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for
Korea's power system. A $50.0 million Bank loan was approved in April 1981
for a Third Agricultural Credit Project.
24.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975, has proved successful.
The project was designed to support Government policy by financing high
priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region.
A loan of $65.0 million for a second project for the development of the
region was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979. A loai
for $90.0 million was approved in April 1981 for a National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project.
25.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing.
26.       In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures such as those described in Part I above. These measures are incor-
porated into a structural adjustment program for which a $250 million
structural adjustment loan was approved by the Executive Directors in
December 1981. The maturity of many of the Korean institutions suggests
that it would be appropriate to adopt a sector lending approach in some
areas along the lines of the loan for higher technical education approved in
1980 which will contribute to the modernization and improvement of the
system of higher technical education so as to increase its flexibility and
responsiveness to the changing requirements of the economy.
27.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growth even more equitably by
the diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector
and through nationwide development programs. To support such diversification
and expansion, projects are envisaged for land/water resource development, for



- 9 -
agricultural marketing, for low-income housing, and for the further develop-
ment of rural infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial areas,
which would enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser-developed
regions of the country and would have a significant impact on the problems of
migration to the major metropolitan areas.
28.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, future Bank
lending will provide considerable support for this sector.
29.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1980 was about 11%, and its share of debt
service was of the order of 7% at that time. These ratios are expected to be
around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-eighties.
PART III - SECTOR BACKGROUND
30.       As discussed in Part I above, Korea's growth strategy has been
based on the expansion of industrial activity with emphasis on the promotion
of manufactured exports. In 1965 commodity exports totalled a mere $181
million of which manufactured exports accounted for just over half.  By 1980
commodity exports had reached $17.2 billion, 90% of which consisted of
manufactures representing 27% of total manufacturing output. Although
Korea's export pattern has continued to display a high degree of reliance on
a few labor-intensive traditional exports (textiles, clothing, footwear,
plywood and certain miscellaneous manufactures), there has also been a
discernible movement in the direction of more sophisticated skill-intensive
products. Items such as electrical machinery, machine tools, electronic
goods and components, and transport equipment (including ships), have been
added to Korea's range of exports. At the same time, the pursuit of
backward linkages, usually from export products, has enabled domestic
production to replace imports in certain sectors, such as textiles, apparel,
sewing machines, certain metal products and chemicals, and in particular
segments of the basic metal, petrochemical and machinery industries.
31.       As a result of rising domestic real wages and increasing competition
from newly industrializing countries and as shown by the shift in export com-
position that has been taking place, Korea's comparative advantage appears to
be moving towards skill and technology intensive industries. In recognition
of this, the Government has established the specific policy objective of
improving the technological base of Korean industries, with the enhancement
of industrial research, development and engineering (RD&E) capability as
their primary focus.



10 -
industrial Research, Development and Engineering (RD&E) in Korea
Background
32.       Expenditures for RD&E in Korea amounted to W 10.5 billion (or
0.3% of GNPj ir. 1970, increasing to W 175 billion (or 0.6% of GNP) in
1979.  Wnile this growth put Korea's RD&E expenditures among the highest in
developing countries, it is still quite modest compared to industrialized
countries. Korea also lags behind Japan's level of technology expenditures
at a similar stage of economic development.  For instance, when Japan's
exports exceeded $10 billion, its royalty payments amounted to about 2.3% of
exports compared with only 0.64% for Korea. When Japan's per capita income
was at Korea's level in constant 1979 prices, its in-house RD&E expenditures
totalled about 0.66% of GNP, compared to Korea's 0.2% of GNP in 1979.
During the period of the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-86), the Government
plans to increase RD&E expenditures to 2% of GNP. Achievement of this
target, however, will require overcoming a number of important weaknesses.
First, R&D spending by industry still accounted for only 34% of the
country-s total in 1979 with the balance by public sector research
institutes and universities (much of it in the form of constructing and
equipping of buildings); by contrast, in highly industrialized countries,
the industrial sector accounts for 60-70% of total R&D spending. Second,
though some 15 public research institutes were established with a view to
meet industry's growing technological needs, their link with industry is
still tenuous. Third, R&D manpower resources remain inadequate, dispersed
over too many institutions, and have insufficient funds to carry out RD&E
work properly, particularly at the development and engineering phases.
Fourth, industry's technological capability upgrading efforts are still
considerably under-financed, due to the absence of suitable financing
instruments in the existing capital market for such software-intensive
and/or risky ventures.
Government RD&E Policy
33.       The Government's plans for increasing RD&E expenditures to 2% of
GNP call for 55% of this coming from the private sector. The Government has
implemented (or is considering) several measures to promote RD&E and foreign
technology imports in Korea. Firstly, the Government has virtually eliminated
all administrative restrictions on foreign technology imports and in 1980, the
Foreign Investment Inducement Act was amended to help increase the inflow of
direct foreign investment and technology. Secondly, the Technology Promotion
Law was amended in 1977 to reduce the cost of foreign technology imports and
to facilitate industry's RD&E work, through reduced tariffs, allowance of
accelerated depreciation of RD&E facilities, and provision of a tax credit of
8-10% for investment in RD&E facilities and for commercialization of RD&E
results. The Technology Promotion Law also includes a provision allowing a
firm to set aside 20% of its pre-tax earnings in a Technology Development
Reserve (TDR) to be used in its Government approved RD&E program within two



- 11 -
years. Annual TDR accumulation increased from W 3 billion in 1974, with
60 companies participating, to W 28 billion in 1979 with 126 companies
participating. In addition to these fiscal measures, the Government
instituted in 1976 a program of technology development loans whereby the
Korea Development Bank (KDB) would provide, loans for the purchase of RD&E
equipment and for the commercialization of local RD&E results. However,
KDBEs technology development loans, which have accounted for less than 0.5%
of its annual lending, can be made only for hardware and must have
collateral backing. Furthermore, KDB has limited capability in appraising
technology-intensive projects. Consequently, KDB's role in financing R&D
and the commercialization of locally developed R&D results has had, and is
likely to continue to have, limited impact on local R&D efforts. The
Government has also taken measures to increase the technical manpower
supply, in both quantity and quality, to industry.
34.       In 1966, the Government established the Korea Institute of Science
and Technology (KIST), a multi-disciplinary research institute, to perform
industry oriented RD&E activities. Between 1976-78 the Government estab-
lished some 15 additional public research institutes many of which were
spin-offs of KIST in anticipation of the growing demand for technological
services by industry. These 15 institutes spent W 50 billion in RD&E
expenditures in 1979, with a substantial proportion of the funds going for
the establishment of the new institutes. By and large, these public
research institutions have not met the Government's original expectations.
Th y appear to have been hastily organized and often competed for the same
limited technological manpower resources.  Also, since the institutes
recruited heavily from academic fields they are particularly weak in
manufacturing know-how. As a result, only 4% of industry's total RD&E
expenditures was contracted out to them in 1978. To help remedy some of
these deficiencies, the Government merged the institutions in 1980, reducing
their number from 19 to 13. The Government is also currently formulating
measures to promote closer cooperation between public research institutes
and industry through implementation of national projects to develop, jointly
with industry, technologies in future growth areas such as semi-conductors,
computers and fine chemicals. The Bank will discuss these measures with
the Government as part of the Bank-Korea dialogue on technology related
issues. The Government has agreed to exchange views with the Bank from time
to time on its RD&E policies (Section 3.06 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Financing RD&E in Korea
35.       Korea has a fairly well-developed capital market consisting of a
network of commercial, investment and development banks as well as other
financial intermediaries for raising funds to finance projects at the market
phase of the product cycle. However, the existing financial system has been
inadequate in meeting the funding requirements of entrepreneurs with
projects at the premarket phase of the product cycle since their risky
nature makes loans on the normal terms offered by these institutions



- 12 -
unattractive both to lenders and borrowers (as evidenced by the lack of
success of KDB's program of RD&E loans). The proposed project, through the
institutional development of KTDC, represents the culmination of efforts to
fill this gap in the capital market, and should encourage industry's under-
taking of RD&E ventures to correct the RD&E spending imbalance noted in
para. 32.
The Bank's Role
36.       The Bank Group has been involved in the Government's efforts to
foster the technological development of Korean industry for a number of years.
In 1979 the Bank financed the Electronics Technology project (Loan 1676-KO).
This project, which is still under implementation, seeks to develop the
capacity of the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) to support
the local electronics industry through provision of specialized infrastruc-
ture and production services, manpower training, acquisition of foreign
technology, and the undertaking of production oriented RD&E work. In 1980,
the Bank provided a sector loan for Higher Technical Education (Loan 1800-KO)
aimed at improving the quality of higher technical education and increasing
the supply of qualified engineers, technicians and managers. In addition to
the proposed KTDC project, the Bank has recently appraised a project to assist
the Korean Production Technology Corporation (KOPTEC), a technical assistance
agency set up in 1981 under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, to provide
shop-floor advice and guidance to increase the productivity of small and
medium machinery enterprises. Its activities will be concentrated on the
downstream or market phase of the product life cycle and on enterprises with
relatively mature technologies. As such, it will complement the activities
of KTDC which will operate mainly at the premarket phase of the product
cycle. In addition, IFC is planning to assist the Korea Technology
Advancement Corporation (KTAC), incorporated in 1974 as a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
(KAIST), with the primary objective of commercializing production technology
developed by KAIST. KTAC would prepare detailed feasibility studies for
selected projects with strong commercial potential and sell such studies to
interested parties for a commission. It is expected that sponsors of
projects promoted by KTAC would be eligible for financial support from KTDC.
The proposed Bank Group support for all three institutions reflects the
priority which the Government and the Bank Group attach to the comprehensive
effort to improve the technological level of industry, if Korea is to be
successful in diversifying its exports from traditional light industrial
products to more technology intensive ones.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       In 1979 the Center for Policy Alternatives of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT/CPA) carried out a study, with the Korean
Institute of Science and Technology (KIST) as local counterpart, designed



- 13 -
to assess the technological needs of key industrial subsectors and to
identify gaps that must be filled to foster the technological development of
Korean industry. The study was financed by UNDP with the Bank acting as
Executing Agency. One of the major results of the study was a recommendation
to establish an institution to finance RD&E. Following a review of the
study, the Bank assisted the Government in defining KTDC's legal framework,
organizational structure and operational policies. The project was appraised
in July 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. between February
1-11, 1982. Representing the Government at the negotiations was Mr. Lee,
Hwan-Kyun, Director of Economic Cooperation Division, Ministry of Finance and
representing KTDC was Mr. Kim Chang-Dal, Executive Vice-President, KTDC. A
report entitled "Korea Staff Appraisal Report - Technology Development
Project" (No. 3707-KO) dated February 25, 1982 is being distributed
separately. Supplementary project data is provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
38.       The project, through the establishment and development of KTDC,
would promote and support the development of the technological capability of
Korean industry principally by providing financial assistance for typically
risky and software-intensive industrial RD&E projects not available in the
existing financial market. Specificially the project will consist of two
major components.
Part A:  Institutional development of KTDC comprising (i) con-
sulting services to strengthen KTDC's project appraisal
and implementation capabilities, and to assist KTDC in
carrying out periodic studies and surveys of Korean
industry-s RD&E programs and areas of potential
development; and invitation of experts from other
institutions in Bank member countries that are of
similar nature to KTDC to help train KTDC staff; and
(ii) training of KTDC staff and the purchase of
educational materials;
Part B:  A line of credit to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by KTDC
between 1982-84.
The types of projects which KTDC will finance will consist typically of (a)
industry's in-house RD&E facilities and projects, (b) industry's RD&E
contracts with public research institutes, and (c) projects for the
introduction and adaptation of advanced technology through financing costs
of technology search and selection and technology transfer fees. It will
also finance projects for the improvement of manufacturing capabilities,
products and processes, as well as the commercial exploitation of RD&E
results where financing is not available from other financial institutions.
Finally, it will finance projects for the development and improvement of the
capabilities of the technical consulting and engineering services industry
in Korea.



- 14 -
KT§ Legal Framework and Ownership
39        T'he KTDC Act of 1980 and the Presidential Decree enforcing the
a~ct const4tute a comprehensive legal framework for KTDC's organization,
policies, operations and administration. KTDC has an authorized capital of
W 15 billion Wit-h W 9 billion or 60% to be subscribed by the private sector
and W 6 billion (40%) by the Government. KTDC's private shareholders
constitute a broad based group of 13 industrial groups, 83 individual firms
and 5 commercial banks. Individual private shareholders are limited to a
maximum of 7% of outstanding shares.
KTDC Management, Organization and Staffing
40.       Responsibility for overall guidance and policymaking at KTDC is
vested in a Board of Directors whose membership is limited to 12 members. At
present, there are 10 Board members, consisting of 7 prominent businessmen,
a Vice-Minister of the Ministry of Science and Technology, and the President
and Executive Vice President of KTDC who are ex-officio members. The
President of KTDC reports directly to the Board and is responsible for the
day-to-day operations of the Corporation. The Chairman of KTDC's Board,
Mr. J.Y. Chung, is also Chairman of the Federation of Korean Industries (FKI)
and the Hyundai Group of industrial enterprises. The President of KTDC,
Mr. I.S. Kim, was previously the Vice-Chairman of FKI and is a dynamic and
capable administrator who is providing the leadership necessary to launch
KTDC. His deputy, the Executive Vice President, is Mr. C.D. Kim, who came
to KTDC after extensive experience in commercial and investment banking.
The KTDC Act also provides for an Auditor who is a non-voting member of the
Board. KTDC has appointed a Technology Review and Advisory Committee to
advise on business activities. Members of this Committee have broad
knowledge and experience in the technology development field and are drawn
from various sectors, including government, research institutes, industry
and universities. KTDC has also enlisted a high-level group of Korean
advisors for consultation, on an ad hoc basis, on issues concerning the
overall direction and strategy of its operations.
41.       KTDC has four departments:  Appraisal Departments I and II
are divided along subsectors and are responsible for project identification,
appraisal and supervision in their designated sectors; the Credit Department
handles the administration of loans and investments; and the Planning and
Administration Department is responsible for planning and budgeting, economic
and market surveys, accounting and control, personnel and other support
services. The two Appraisal Departments are under the supervision of a
Director and the other two Departments - Credit and Planning and
Administration Departments - are under the supervision of a second Director.
Both Directors report to the Executive Vice President.
42.       As of July 1981, KTDC had recruited 30 professional staff with
various backgrounds including RD&E engineers, project engineers, development
banking officers, and investment officers, all with an average of 7-8 years



- 15 -
working experience in the leading industrial and banking institutions in
Korea. KTDC plans to recruit about 20 additional professional staff during
1982-84. Despite the high level of competence of KTDC staff in their
respective specialities, they would need assistance in technology develop-
ment financing during KTDC's initial stages of operations. KTDC has agreed
to contract experts to provide the needed assistance on a retainer or ad hoc
basis at least until December 31, 1984 on terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank (Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, KTDC
has agreed to set up an in-house training program consisting of lectures and
seminars by experts from established institutions similar to KTDC and an
academic training program in Korea and overseas. KTDC would submit to the
Bank the details of the training and expert invitation program by September
1, 1982 (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
KTDC's Financing Instruments and Policies
43.       KTDC will offer the following types of financial support either
separately or in combination:
(a) Conventional loans: regular loans to be repaid in accordance with
predetermined conditions. Conventional loans may be granted with
or without collateral and would be for up to 10 years including a
grace period of up to three years at an interest rate of not less
than 13.85% (2.25% higher than the Bank loan rate (Section 2.09(c)
of the draft Loan Agreement)).
(b) Conditional loans: special loans that will allow profit and risk
sharing between KTDC and the project sponsors. Such loans would
be repaid through royalty payments from sales revenues if the
project is successful. The royalty would be set at a level to
ensure a sufficient return on the loan. Royalty payments would be
enough at least to provide for repayment of the principal amount
of the loan plus interest and other charges at the same rate as
applies to conventional loans (Section 2.09(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). It is expected that, through negotiations with the
prospective subborrower, the royalty payments will be set higher
than this minimum in order to compensate KTDC for the risk
associated with this type of operation. If the project is not
successful, the subborrower's liability on the conditional loan
would be released except in most cases for a "minimum repayment"
of up to 30% of the loan principal (the exact amount of the
minimum repayment, if any, being a matter of negotiation at the
time the subloan is made).
(c) Equity investments: equity participation in companies set up to
commercialize RD&E results.



- 16 -
The maximum amount that KTDC can onlend out of the proceeds of the loan to a
single investment project is $1.5 million equivalent per project (Section
2.02(a)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). To avoid concentration of KTDC's
resources in a few enterprises, KTDC has agreed that the maximum amount
outstanding at any one time of all loans to and equity investments in, a
single entity shall not exceed limits satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.07
of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       KTDC intends gradually to expand its conditional lending and
equity financing to promote and support innovative and consequently risky
projects. The proportion of conventional loans in total approvals by KTDC
is expected to decline from 95% in 1981 to 80% in 1982, and 40% by 1990.
Conditional loans are expected to increase from 5% in 1981 to 15% in 1982
and to 50% in 1990 while equity participation will increase gradually from
5% in 1982 to a maximum level of 10% in 1984 and thereafter. These targets
indicate that KTDC-s operations are directed towards conventional and
conditional lending, whereas organizations of similar nature in other
countries channeled their resources through conditional loans and grants.
This difference in emphasis can be explained mainly by the relatively early
stage of technological development of Korean industry, where acquisition of
R&D infrastructure and foreign technologies still plays a relatively more
important role than in more advanced countries. Furthermore, while
organizations in other countries are funded almost entirely by governments,
a considerable portion of KTDC's resources come from the private sector.
For these reasons, the above targets for the composition of KTDC financ:ng
operations are considered reasonable. These targets during 1982-84 were
discussed with the Bank during negotiations and have been incorporated in
KTDC-s Policy Statement. However, since these operational targets are
indicative, KTDC has agreed to review with the Bank by the end of each year
beginning with 1982, the operational targets to be met by KTDC during the
following year and on the basis of such reviews adopt operational targets
mutually acceptable to KTDC and the Bank (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
45.       Under its Charter, KTDC is required to give priority support to
Small and Medium Scale Industries (SMI) by allocating not less than a
certain prescribed portion of its total financial resources to such enter-
prises as decided upon by its Board of Directors. KTDC is committed in its
Policy Statement to allocate to SMI at least 20% of its total financing in
1982, to increase it to 30% in 1983-85. KTDC has already taken major steps
to promote its business and attract project proposals from SMI through
seminars and direct contact with various SMI cooperatives, and is mounting a
concerted plan for this purpose with the assistance of other SMI-support
institutions such as the Small and Medium Industry Bank, the Small and
Medium Industry Promotion Corporation, KOPTEC and KTAC.



- 17 -
Financin Requirements
46.       KTDC expects to finance 90 subprojects in 1982, 125 and 150
subprojects in 1983 and 1984 respectively, based on various surveys of
industrial RD&E investment plans in 1980 and on some 100 applications
already received by KTDC. Subproject cost is estimated to vary from
W 7 million (about $10,000) to W 2.7 billion (about $4 million) with an
average of about W 200 million ($300,000). On the basis of these assump-
tions and assuming that KTDC would finance 70% of the project costs on
average, KTDC's total financing requirement would be about W 3.5 billion
(about $5 million) in 1981, rising to W 26 billion ($36 million) in 1984.
The combined requirement for the 1981-84 period would amount to W 66 billion
(about $92 million) representing about 15% of the projected total RD&E
investment by industry.
47.       To meet this financing requirement, KTDC would contract Government
loans of W 15 billion (about $21 million) in addition to the proposed Bank
loan of $50 million (or W 36 billion). KTDC would also raise W 15 billion
(about $21 million) in equity funds with W 9 billion (about $12.5 million)
from private sources and W 6 billion (about $8.5 million) from the Government.
Of the W 15 billion in Government loans, W 1 billion has already been
contracted. Of the W 15 billion in equity funds, W 7.5 billion has already
been paid-in, with W 1 billion coming from the Government and W 6.5 billion
from the private sector. The Government has confirmed that it would provide
W 5 billion in additional subscriptions to KTDC's paid-in capital and would
make W 14 billion in loan funds, either as direct loans or government-
guaranteed bond issues, available to KTDC by December 31, 1984 on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02(a) and (b) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Similarly, KTDC has confirmed that it will raise from
private sources the remaining equity (at least W 2.5 billion) during 1982-84
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
48.       The Government has also agreed to provide KTDC with other financial
support aside from its equity and loan contributions. To ensure that exces-
sive concern for profitability does not hinder KTDC from fulfilling its
promotional role, the KTDC Act stipulates that the Government cover part of
KTDC's annual losses on conditional loans.  The Bank and the Government have
agreed that the losses on conditional loans would be covered by Government
supplementary financing and that such additional funds shall be provided
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02(c) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).  For the early years of KTDC-s operations before conditional
loan losses are realized, it is expected that the Government would provide
the supplementary financing to KTDC as needed for KTDC to achieve its
conditional lending targets. Also to help KTDC mobilize future equity
funds, the Government has amended the Tax Reduction Act to encourage the
investment by other firms in KTDC's equity and to enable KTDC to claim a
higher level of reserve for bad debts (40% for KTDC's conditional loan
portfolio compared with the 1 percent applicable to commercial and
investment Banks) commensurate with the risks inherent in its conditional
lending operations.



- 18 -
Fi-nancial ana Business Prospects
49.       x'TDC i s proJected to incur losses during 1982-85 totalling
W 5.5 billion (about $7.6 million), but should begin to earn a profit there-
after, increasing from W 0.5 billion (about $0.7 million) in 1986 to
W 27.2 billi n ($37.8 million) in 1990. Return on equity which will be
negative during 1982-85, will increase from 2.5% in 1986 to 31.1% in 1990.
Since financing of industry's RD&E activities is a new phenomenon in Korea,
these projected financial results are necessarily indicative. Nonetheless,
the projected performance is typical of a risk sharing operation like KTDC-s
because of the inherently high risk and long gestation period of RD&E
projects and the long time needed to build a conditional loan portfolio
large enough to sufficiently diversify investment risks. KTDC's debt/equity
ratio is expected to increase to 4.2:1 in 1985 and thereafter decline to
1.5:1 in 1990. Although the projected debt/equity ratios are well within
the 10:1 ceiling stipulated in KTDC's Policy Statement, KTDC has agreed to
obtain the Bank's consent prior to contracting any long-term debt, if such
debt would cause its debt/equity ratio to exceed 4 to 1 (Section 4.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement). To finance its operations beyond 1984, KTDC will
require an additional W 16 billion (about $22 million) in equity funds and
W 73 billion (about $101 million) in loan funds during 1985-88. KTDC is not
expected to experience any difficulty in raising these funds as long as the
strong support of the private sector and the Government continue.
Main Features of the Bank Loan
50.       The proposed Bank loan of $50 million (which includes the capital-
ized front-end fee) will be made directly to KTDC and guaranteed by the
Government. The front-end fee would be about $0.74 million and about $48.61
million of the loan proceeds will be used to finance the foreign exchange cost
of RD&E projects supported by KTDC during 1982-84. The $0.65 million balance
of the loan will be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of technical
assistance, training and education materials for KTDC, consisting of:  (a) 30
man-months of consulting and expert services at an average cost of $12,000 per
man-month including travel and subsistence, for a total of $360,000; (b) 100
man-months of training at an average cost of $2,500 per man-month for a total
of $250,000; and (c) $40,000 of educational materials. In addition KTDC has
obtained UNDP funds of $350,000 mainly for training.  In order to maintain
project momentum, it is recommended that the proposed loan include retroactive
financing of $1.5 million equivalent to cover KTDC approvals made after
January 1, 1982 (Section 2.02(d) of the Loan Agreement). All subprojects to
be retroactively financed will be subject to prior review and approval by the
Bank.



- 19 -
51.       Bank loans to financial intermediaries usually have a flexible
amortization schedule corresponding to the aggregate amortization of
subloans to be financed. However, because KTDC would also be expected to
provide a significant portion of the Bank loan proceeds as conditional loans
for which there would be no fixed repayment schedule and for which losses
are likely to be high, it is proposed that the Bank loan be provided with a
fixed term of 14 years including 5 years of grace at an interest rate of
11.6% per annum. The five-year grace period is two years longer than the
country norm applicable to Korea. This is justified because KTDC is
expected to incur losses during the first 5-7 years of its operations. The
additional two years of grace period would be compensated for by making
appropriate adjustment to the repayment terms of other loans to Korea
planned over the next 6-9 months.
52.       KTDC would onlend the Bank loan proceeds to subborrowers for con-
ventional or conditional loans in accordance with the terms spelled out in
paragraph 43 above. The foreign exchange risk would be passed on directly
to conventional loan subborrowers and while the ultimate exchange risk on
conditional loans will remain with KTDC (or partially with the Government.
during the period when the conditional loan loss coverage applies), it will
in practice be substantially passed on to successful subprojects, as
payments to KTDC will be in the form of royalties which will rise in line
with increases in the value of sales. These onlending conditions were
confirmed during negotiations (Section 2.09(b) and (d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The minimum relending rate of 13.85% on Bank loan funds (i.e.,
the actual minimum rate on conventional loans and the imputed minimum rate
on conditional loans) is about the same as the current rate of inflation in
Korea and somewhat lower than the 16.5% rate charged on local currency loans
in Korea. However, the domestic rate of inflation is expected to decline
slightly over the next few years. Also the 13.85% rate is in foreign
exchange and this does not take into account the impact on the subborrower
of the expected gradual depreciation of the Won. Thus, the effective
onlending rate should be substantially positive in real terms and comparable
to other lending rates in Korea.
53.       A free limit of $300,000 is proposed which would result in an
estimated 20-30% of KTDC subprojects being subject to prior review by the
Bank. In addition, since KTDC is a new institution, the first five conven-
tional loans and the first ten conditional loans regardless of size, would
be subject to prior review by the Bank (Section 2.02(b) and (c) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The level of the free limit would be reviewed periodically
to ensure that KTDC would send a reasonable number of subprojects to the
Bank for prior review. Except as the Bank might otherwise agree in
specified cases, the ceiling on subloan size would be $1.5 million (Section
2.02(a)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Account and Audit
54.       KTDC will maintain its accounts in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and practices, including separate accounts
for expenditures for which withdrawals from the proposed loan are requested
on the basis of statement of expenditures. KTDC has agreed to submit to the
Bank within four months after close of the fiscal year beginning with 1981,
its annual account audited by external auditors satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 4.02(i) and (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursements
55.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
costs of imported and locally procured equipment, materials, consulting
services and training. Since KTDC's subloans are expected to finance a wide
variety of hardware and software items available from a limited number of
suppliers, procurement would be made through international or local shopping
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Consulting services
will be engaged in accordance with Bank guidelines.
56.       The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 100% of
documented foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment, materials,
services and training; and (b) 60% of local expenditures for imported goods
purchased off-the-shelf or locally manufactured equipment and materials,
representing the estimated foreign exchange component. All contracts for
local procurement below $100,000 equivalent would be disbursed against
statements of expenditures (SOE). Related documents would be retained by
KTDC and made available for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
Contracts above $100,000 equivalent would require full documentation. The
SOE procedure is justified because procurement under the proposed loan would
involve small and numerous expenditures. The capability of KTDC and its
auditors to maintain the necessary accounts and documentation is satis-
factory. The proposed closing date is December 31, 1986.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The primary benefit of the project will be to foster the technolo-
gical development of Korean industry. In supporting industry's RD&E
ventures, KTDC will put strong emphasis on sharing the risks with project
sponsors and thereby will influence and reinforce industry's attitude toward
further undertaking of RD&E activities. The financial support provided by
KTDC will serve as "seed money" which should have a multiplier effect on
industry's RD&E investment necessary for the accelerated development of
industrial technological capability. In addition, with its knowledge of the
technological status of industry and technological trends through periodic
surveys and studies, KTDC will be capable of assisting industry in identify-
ing areas in which industry should focus its RD&E efforts. Also, through



- 21 -
the process of appraising and particularly supervising its RD&E projects,
KTDC will induce a measure of discipline, and hence increase the efficiency
in industry's management and implementation of RD&E activities. Finally,
KTDC will promote a closer link between industry and public research
institutes, by encouraging and financing projects sponsored by industry and
carried out by these research institutes.
58.       The most important lesson learned from other institutions in the
world that are of similar nature of KTDC is that, for this kind of risk-
sharing financing operation to be successful, the institution must have
autonomy and a strong, independent and entrepreneurial management, as well
as the ability to attract and retain a competent and high-caliber
professional staff. This condition has been met in the case of KTDC, as
demonstrated by its strong support from the private sector and the high
quality of the management team and professional staff that it has assembled
as well as the sound legal framework and operating policies and procedures
that provide KTDC with the autonomy and flexibility of a private sector
organization. The main risk is, therefore, that KTDC might not receive the
kind of financial support beyond what the private sector realistically can
be expected to provide especially during the initial years of operations
before profits from its risk taking ventures materialize.  The Government's
agreement, however, to provide not only loan and equity support but also to
reimburse KTDC for a portion of losses on conditional loans should
substantially mitigate-this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Korea Technology
Development Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Korea and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 1, 1982



_ 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                 g
KDREA REPUBLIC OF                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND) AKEA (THUUSAND SQ. Klt.)                                                              - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
ToTAL              98.5                                  IMOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       22.6               1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b           ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNY PER LGAP1IA (Ub§)                   180.0       410.0    1480.0                   1136.1                   1616.2
ENERGY C9bbUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS UF COAL EQU1VALENT)       261.1        772.6    1641.6                   1150.6                  1324.1
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25003.0        31923.0   37814.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7           41.7       53.4                    40.8                     64.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          52.5
STATIONARY PoPULATION (MILLIONS)                            72.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2065
POPULATION OENSITY
PER bQ. KM.                        253.8        324.1      383.9                   373.1                     34.3
PeR S4. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.4         1358.4    1643.0                   2382.8                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                           42.9         42.1       35.1                    39.8                    40.7
15-o4 IRS.                           53.8         54.6       61.1                    56.7                    55.3
65 YRS. ANO ABUVE                     3.3          3.3        3.8                     3.5                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1          2.4        1.9                     2.3                     2.4
UR3AS                                4.7          6.3        4.9                     3.8                      3.7
CRUDE liRTH RAIE (PER THOUSANU)       43.U          30.0      25.3                    29.7                     31.4
CRUDE DEATH RAIE (PER THOUSAND)       13.5           9.4       7.9                     7.5                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8          2.1       1.6                     1.9                      2.3
PAMIlLY PLANNING
AGLEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        672.0      686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           32.0       49.1                    44.1
POOp AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOUD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            89.0         99.0      144.0                   123.7                    108.3
PER LAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     94.0        110.0      119.0                  112.6                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            55.0         65.0       73.0                    62.5                    65.8
OP WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          7.0          8.0       15.0                    19.7                    34.0
CHILO (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       12.3          7.5        4.5                     4.8                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.2           59.5       63.4                    64.0                     64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             62.0         43.0       37.0                    50.2                     70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               12.1         58.U       71.0                    45.9                     65.7
URBAN                               18.5         84.0       85.0                    68.0                     79.7
RURAL                                9.5         38.0       54.9                    34.4                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TUIAL                                 *          25.0       61.0                    53.4                     59.9
URBAN                                 ..         59.0       68.0                    71.0                     75.7
RURAL                                  ..          ..       50.0                    42.4                     30.4
PUPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN            3539.5       2216.3    1986.1                   4428.7                   1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSlNG PERSUN       3220.0/c    1768.9/c   553.2                    2229.7                   1288.2
PUPULAIOUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TOIAL                             2482.0       1930.3      643.8                   588.5                   471.2
URBAN                                 ..       1084.5      755.9                   579.6                   558.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..         14.9        ..                    36.7
SOUbl 51
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.6          5.5        5.3
URbAN                                5.4           ..
RURAL                                5.6           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
ToTAL                                2.5          2.3        2.0/e.
URBAN                                2.8          2.7        2.1/e
RURAL                                2.4          2.2        2.0/e
ALLLS 10 ELECTRILiTY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
ToTAL                               28.4         49.9
URBAN                               67.3         92.4
RURAL                               12.4         29.9       64.9



ANNEX I
Pa ge 2 of 5
KOEA REPUB-LIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AOES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOhE
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 94.0        105.0      111.0                   99.8                     101.7
hALE                  99.0        106.0     112.0                   100.6                    103.0
FEaALE                89.0       105.0      111.0                   98.8                     101.5
SECUNDARY:   TOTAL                 27.0         43.0       74.0                   53.5                      35.3
MALE                  38.0        52.0       81.0                    58.4                     34.9
FEMALE                14.0        34.0       67.0                   48.6                      35.6
VoCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  14.0           14.0      20.0                   21.1                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.0        57.0       48.0                   34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           34.0        37.0       39.0                   31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         70.6         87.6      93.0                   86.5                      80.0
CONSUhPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER ThOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.5          1.9       6.2                   12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          31.2       125.7      398.7                  174.1                     215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.3         13.1       95.9                   50.6                      89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0       137.7      196.1                  106.8                      62.8
CINEMbA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0          5.0        1.8                    4.3                       3.2
LAbOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8339.7      11173.8   14351.8
FEHALE (PERCENT)                   25.8         32.7       32.6                   37.4                      22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4        51.0       35.8                   50.2                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)         -        9.3         20.1       30.1                   21.9                      23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 33.4        35.0       38.0                   40.2                      31.8
HALE                                  49.5        46.8       50.7                   49.8                      49.0
FEMALE                                17.2        23.0       24.9                   31.1                      14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.3       1.0                     1.1                      1.4
INCOUE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/d        17.1       16.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF hOUSEHOLDS  42.3/d        44.5       45.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.7/d         7.1        5.7
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07d        17.7       16.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      320.0                  248.6
RURAL                                ..           ..      270.0                  193.7                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      370.0                  249.8                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..      310.0                  234.3                     362.2
ES11TATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       18.0                   21.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..       11.0                   32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Lnless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country; /d 1965; Ye 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population
estimates to be shown in the 1981 World Bank Atlas pre
$1520 (at 1978-80 prices) and 38455 thousands.
May, 1981



tttt SOtOtO   -'StOPtOuposO     *tttto  tOtOpuO  trap  put uT.
TOST A-M                                              4d *"n2-.d ;. -q-~~~~~~~UOS   Aqti V.ptt tq.T   TuoppaI"",T
uaan  flupttuCtoo Pot OPthToV tPOtOttl                              opupi put ut;,;ze p56~---   Itq   tut-. u.sittSth ttit ztt  Pq ot-ut.oT  Put
apupit, utup TtOiS  t~to05p                                       tototut ooq  po 'tattoo: :uuTsp A0 T-n 'putuoupp put toisappo, pu
tt tttop; StOU   q 0uit  (ToPut 'tuqo  'TOOtO) Sttt  p0 O-ap
0000                                                         tpuot tot.. tSTputp;63_.")    -_
.-d               MIut*opOt Sr0).  'Ttt Ap P  po d oV-"                         Isutu  uou u   - pun3ttoo
- tom   po in'i~ - (t tts  T0PI) )&t  at! 500*0 -ift¶O  putuou  TtqT   qoisaI- ontt  00,0-)0  pu..,:..PPW    5d    OU
ou   pts n5lb,po-a   0S)tot ot-   o --Ip toubup h4IToto.st-R                                t- *uqt'-uo  -;i.-l     WI Ott  O~TtO  ATdd-O 
*-~    qsPppu -~Tt5 5T-E   --TOo   -ps 05 T--T5  ..t. ht-d tOtOtT                                                                 -urtrqtpT-.otuo  tsto
taT-.ItuoOp             oo4q   tot  Sutdp   uot 't-toO P                                Bgpoos.p oto.0   Ot, tOo   --- Tp uot q3 u'oot I-  Ot5
A q P0V.tu-v  (ptPtttoU  ttjaOittto    tutSi                                        u  pu-ouq  -so tut.; T.u-p    (puotupRs Out) .55  hOT--" (ti-T  t) P5050
-PtUST P- OL6t '05-SPOT 'SAp it   us  pttuopu   tuo   o   u
;,p put; pt LTOu_  n-uui  - tot   u  T            ju   o  iT-~tuuuoolt  u
oo.up Wuo  Tutu  uql                                             =     X'ttPLL 1  T '99-590T -htot  PuSS P*TOO
nu  p   U9 Ito FT sopa tuiVTopit  p0 t        - uptu  .ttPaots ppuutt                 P-=U uqo up OV  Sq P_-WuIApoo.pt  u  uton..-ut .u upusut  5sup
.-ouu  sutupu  a.; tot ttttu            to               P tao! EZ pu- opu d T005 Pu  -ao  Si po  uuq  utqs otT  0  tOOt
T  'P--I utto tutt pa *TtOiodt  pus po ontit   --"-Ot  "Tut1ot-                          _4utO  -Uoq       ..od part. tq pT-pRu u--I 0t WIuT" Pt 'usutOs  uTp
uttt  uusotopstd .,ut -  P"up  tot a-u~ *us-P.P1O  put '01  OT ;91                       u P-Tu tpo u-.8 CZ Pa SOP mud  "2.om   Tusu  pt -anm   09 JO utoTT.
05 us..; 'pt   pa;pt Tr-        uu 'pusts to T-; uoT-d   p  ut So-z      ,.              up -"'oq  ut; -Pppp  s  us p VOA  RP""nToo-      .  mud- pTT;  -oISO T" u
Pt a  ds-Trtn    - t5      a'P.   ptt    puttt)tt  _T3ututispon                       "T5pO   00 po Outut   pnm00  - (AuP nt taP) tiot-" Pt AT4040  tOtt  IN
tou.p PLOT Put OQGT                                          -5P   16T Put '0L6T 'F"SptT -T-tu   PTP-uutu
'pHT PUto; -.P¶T TOOt  t- touStotd Utt           - u 000**S 4TpOTuuTo put                 tut...it   s-ot  PT OT-ToT- put 'upOtt'Oud Pt                           F-tus:p  a 
!upotsotp  *utpttu.O t '5t   Wp t...t;  oqu.1 -  sra7stp    IRtpu               uS.. ttqtpu- AP- 'uottun i TusoopoT-  uiutt  q2p.p  put St
-tOP PLOT Put PLi  O% T0tP00 !-     tqtt Ttt  ptttOtpd o,q                            -sT.t paTt S; tPtt TpOFt05TtTtd ut puuoq PPV Sq Puuo. t     uta
Put MU3t   'A=50*5  ftttts   op oo; toqur - puot)ootO ty-mmvtO   *ttpt=piotP op  --uTt pu  'tuptUod put; up Put ouTopTti-
_P' pjpT put ojjt 'puT !T".qtd-. out                      uuT tootto   '-T..ptPod optup    -ptsTuTut  uSqTrpp   -h.p tod
ootps,to-poT, up a-Tpupoppo          'ttu   t P   st-u    Pussou                  .540 iTtO I  OtIIIo -p -TqT.T-t   -Topddt p-op ott pt oooTo.Tbu t
9uopuTtut *uuuoo  t1.puo  htrUopaat    T -utto- ut t-      t  itquptol M-J%.up  .to  pu  *psT  lppSqs  usqpo.u d otoPUpd tho., Totp
P- tuppu  'I1u) uspsP     -OTo. P-  T%TPpu  -o  VTth  (ou!t jtPtt
-t Taupqu  Pa               .....tt *_   'u) uP-, A-TAid tot uTTsp-3  ..T.t" ouuh OupaTu  a 
tausu-uso  to tutpuopat Pppuou  'Ott pus OupTop p,T  .. t o                         Pt pu-; put Put ouPuTa atotpt                I Tpo-   P-;o TTt Pt uops-Ptp
pt toa    -pu  a putu  - otu  n   tip-O   OttttTtoPuu)                           To-   t5dts 00d Pt -tP   - (OPT-Sp-006T)  Itspt3! INE ttttt0P00  P) tOPu
oo;p7.      t   tO- t 55 --M   uusips W . tot   p  u   uoot   s                           utu -TPt uTuputtot-  (         ppot poX-   outnu   un.     t unqPuToP 1.-pp
uputsuo  npo      pi-       ;tpo p                    -tuousoT; o.-u  M            pnutot  p0 o.ap oa -  (P"-- otIuqo           )       .-ut   titoo   - ouPut-nj ATTou
ttupt p-qotu  uq Out So  tAl      uOo;  tp!oP    sOttu                              ...o opfltt4t to  tatto T...       dapt  5utu  t.ttT---Ti    oJ ITT
oppuopt 0t50iOtOto  p   tout  us pt~Itusto  op""toooo-T- uut                      up 66  v-u -5p  a. T uotiSoPt-        tt   t,.   toTT toottp 7o tti
-PqI- !-T2-TM"  P P--M-              ttd  5qTi h t3T5-qt                                                    'tOtP PLOP P-t 'PL6t t06T tu-po-Tdt
-T.d-        "-.ql  -) -.0 --..a ~              ~     ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~PL'OSt tO'6L-090P-'L-91 '09-005   0    6TooO--dd 
*to.O pt tOOthPt    t upOttdS0OSupt TPtO po OtouttoO t to-pW  OOS  -            ostoR3-o, T-ta - WOOtO 2  -    ROtot  ttt  on-to;as-t
CT-si pa Put to Tpq) 0Tota  .t.-ot'  - potn;Ot  tOOtttu*tt6165 Pu   OLPt '0905 !000)0
-upuoup Su-ppu.4.t.ouo     ~-Au   o0pup  uuutudMto (Oot po  ---uh pop Putp... p-u  (tI-th ti9
usptTn   PtP   tt     tptttpt-ito      -o,out-TTptT"                                                                                  toup efTo Pot POT '09OT phATt
'padopp utoit qtq.-taTN" ps   t 5Pttu   'pOOppuOu   ATpts-                                                                 'Otot;_.     P3"     PLO   00 TV"   tto  O
topou   rusuV                      ipa  p   utaptto.  tuptt0;   tootu                                         -uPapt uup  o  6uoT P-0d6 Ot.,%T -_T
tR"o ..  M"-Z     2-"I  to905  00  T~R                     T--""  -ps;."                    -Twotpdu  ho-t o  -. -ut  -.Z - opuot OPtpoathiuttttu
fatn%otuo  AoSuTiS P.---". pu outS out; tat ot tuptoustlupu                                                                                                -T'Tt Ita
Lotaqot P.040 ttPu2dop - ii T I a T""u  - Toput Iooptootp                            -.top0to to-t       00   o;p.  rtopta  q0uo    u  put 'pOZp  -h pus  T
ohTupua TttuPp  -us Iopu   0   Tpq to  up.dt  uu    -Tot.                    ut-ztudd -Pus;  otsoSoq  P.IttPud  Putp  tuq ptapuut
Xo... WOPT pu-   A-t W.Wntou  tOppttp  TuoToop  qTiO. -pOTtO                               t    tt$  OOPTP000  ho-toto  t     -IT.-ot   pT-To  -topOt-
LpttooaSo-pod pu p4uolap IutnPs  it; ptsttpu stq tiu                                     r-ottS u  -%- '-Oouptpit   u  spa 3T       otti xo--Tu    t pus
rt-p   t  Mtootio   .Ptoppu  AnTT-- ftuu3Tft-Ott  uOO-T.tto A..tto                    to utt-Pu   -to- hsttsotp opt AT-t potiqos opuo   -su-ttu  os-pu
otsudt  p  utoptooo         T A-Rmd oopus  ps.t  -ftt  TTu p0 tanuot                 -t  ottts  tOt put  .Tt. put .-o  qoup put usToo -pTo   qo.oi -pu
JMIopT2=          LoptOtO   Pt u-tO1Otuuttu  70 to  putuTu  -pa  OP hist-   gm
'toatpoO  sputtoArpt-] Ottd Pa T--T5  --Too  to              A..tT pTou-
'SpOTsssnto utui-toP Toot put 'Opuot *tost P                           us -TsTaP SIaPto  u1-tot  -oPs --pu  -Tup   -st hoo       p it; .--u
-touoO ptOOtst         .ts~ -Tt--p -put Pt -TOti-  totO  UOTT5nt .tp ......                psoto
pa     tuto   po- a,ud    tyot  -BTTop5           -ho.ttdoo    tgTp p                     'topuo AosTT-So; Put 43IpTiut osps pa at puu .t Aq Ot5r.OtO. Toot
paTutout  poptot Turn  Put 'aqit IT.                  -dot.n    tttid po;. -Rpapuqto   ottLs  ttptpodo  ouotu  - P t                                   ~ ~
a  tOss, - ito pa 'ota   -Tos.s - otto out ft=t. pu naptooty
-atodot  tOTOOPPU   .0; pIutp  pu                                                       '-OsP 6MO  p- 'LOUT 'P90T *-TOP     t  hat-
uppupTpu  pu out hA  I. A-ut     W ottp .. -o  Tuoou   ..T-  up- -otq  Pa                     toO  pt 4ZjTpqOitttt  .-;J. OuA-ituq   OuuooppPopt
toot   tub     ou   u ft;-uup.spui,.  Ott, t. po to -ot ts         .. ppu Ttu               !uPoT-TOtO  mst  tooq.pmsu      tosp   oit   ooput
-toot,put '.qto 'tsoO  -  pptopu taunt;prututbot     Ott  u-to--s
,uPuq p. toopu  Aq Pup-popP  T "osouuo
tttpaotpp- 000   -tu-toa   P0 o      . poT"    - P"  MToosu   Mu  _Totpopu                                                                                          tt
'toot  top. SATW  VP-tpuoo  to  utsssOtpu pu-tMt O    'toot-S                     O1Oi pa 'Ou61 '09To t POdOt ItO 3To-Tttio   Ta, ptuootT.   (43popit
hoA3To_  pa Tpoopu pot  m3Tospdtp  pOt.I   a. T-T s-tussdou To.-  pa                    -ot5  t~~ dPut  uTta  '-ophq pa. tO  T-tOtt 'OP                 o 'ou P- p
*..siuTttoniftudpTtu   fupu  uPuTou  ttsodupu opn toodtd Toots                       T-) Aslot  ToTooat  Pt ttTt.ut    T---" - 05550  UtO AZttsSO  J
-   -pop   t   '-TupoToTp T-sspa PO thus puPoMT 0 -PsT-oA P- uuotp
o  q ttq) -Ttoutdq  o Sq POPPOOO ATtutaod t-  onat Tttpu  Put                        'Opot !(I-  61LL4T) --tO   Rutt PT-tt to Ppa  -T--ttt  -to  Sq puo.Ttus
sTotq tputut  'o-puR 'ur-MY.Otp  T--"   'pupto7u   ot tot tot  To-p                   -T"t'tpdOuu T"tin  to  ttut-ts  0540  no  __                     ) (i nY'   zu so
-tut SpTudptsoO IOpbood top.pqostp2  '-Tuptoqd ot Pu-I Ot Sq
Pt.jt.t ATt......    05005pquott tot                ......up  ' Iuo . ut3Rtpqpuj       -uP 4101 P-TuTtO  opp toi  tuio           ttio   Pu- ott.. toouo'O
I    Pip-    ut-iusat p   T..u-$ .1t.dS pa sTyqd up tpqonoo                          AT--V--"   It AT-pToohut put  an  TVoiTO.touto JO totoo r         iHMP
opto -otOtoti po top. toptudut oupt Sq pups.;; (550to pa 'spu                                    -tot_ puopO  pa a,. puup Iup.huo-  an totpit  lO     - WWTO
.5005) a0Tstptdt  - toit  pa 'aqot 'pT-t  - pu  TossoSu  mud ottotuto                                                                          ('pu'b  putpus;  WjY'-
'tOt, tatpt  Pa Aotutu  puo *ue   n2 t tt otoOPpu  a
aqo hiso utto  pa  Rtopo    -  ot;toa ooptto  puttitto  -T3TpP dud tot -ttoo  put --oP 00000 taopo  u  o   - (uupospp  toooosu-ts
-I-o.tt p  tOuq u-pu; OP ,ttOt tvm  pa Oupopy osnif u-to   *pppp  touqo OtooP .ttoOnm  Tic -T"Ot  tV374t  ot; sOuto) hita-  zmf4ot pu  p
0,.  ht..   , I1-    pu Raqt   -up  ahooo  op q topt qspo do.us  AS3.tu .   (pp Pa AStot  too(qu  pu  p0 duto  Aisa; tat pu                an) o  uduottotp   pup
'asottut   apu oato;pp so..;uOto  utsott.utPa 'tpao   .%.Ptup   'Opus t-9   po utop-                      ftiso   uPtuptu  'atoq
-  .0to  opo  RRg   . usp pus MI12ps-TTt .p uutua   asup p Sq put utitoto  Pa utupMoppp puStpoopt. p0 tIrt  put p. t--oq OTRottu  Snut-pt
I XHNNV                                                                    -z



- 26 -
Annex I
*o>I:  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                                                                                         Page 4 of 5
-ar,-a:  UJS$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                          Annual growth rates (%) at constant prices
current prices)                               Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                              1980/a              1976       1977       1978       1979       1980/a      1981        1985       1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product               59,177              13.9       10.1       11.3        7.1       -3.4         6.2        7.6        8.0
Agriculture                         9,754              10.7        2.1       -4.0        6.7      -22.0        24.0        2.5        2.5
Industry                           24,396              20.1       15.8       20.8        8.4       -0.4         4.0       10.0       10.0
Services                           25,027              10.8        9.7       11.0        6.0        2.4         1.4        7.0        7.0
Consumption                          45,215               8.8        7.1       11.0        7.4       -0.9         2.3        4.8        6.4
Gross investment                     17,889               8.0       24.0       35.9       17.5      -24.3        10.9        8.5        7.6
Exports of GNFS                      21,145              43.0       25.7       17.5       -3.6        9.6        11.6       11.0       10.6
Imports of GNFS                      25,846              26.9       23.8       29.1        8.6       -6.8         7.7        7.4        8.8
Gross national savings               12,268              42.3       17.3       14.9        2.4      -19.5         -          -          -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 = 100)                               116.3      135.8      164.6      197.4      250.3         -          -          -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                                  484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      607.6         -          -          -
Export price index (1975 = 100)                         112.8      120.2      137.2      161.2      168.7       179.9      240.9      321.1
Import price index (1975 = 100)                         103.0      103.9      108.4      137.3      175.2       170.2      233.5      316.6
Terms of trade index (1975 = 100)                       109.5      115.7      126.6      117.4       96.3       105.7      103.2      101.4
Share of GDP at market prices (%)                        Average annual increase (x)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990          1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product             100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0             8.6        9.8        8.2         7.3        7.7
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9    12.4             4.3        4.9       -1.2        5.3        2.5
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2            17.4       15.3       13.5        9.1       10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3             8.1        7.7        7.6        6.2        7.0
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7    58.1             6.7        7.8        7.1        4.8        6.1
Gross investment                  11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8            23.6       11.2       14.6        9.2        8.8
Exports of GNFS                    3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6            29.3       25.4       16.1       10.9       10.5
Imports of GNFS                   12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    42.6    43.9            20.2       15.8       17.0        7.2        8.4
Gross national savings /b          8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7        -        -          17.2       14.6        -          -          -
As Z of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980         Labor Force in 1980           Millions    (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                               Agriculture                   4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5       17.8       17.9       19.9           Industry                      3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                       14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6           Services                      5.1       35.5
Current surplus                             4.2        4.7        2.5        4.3           Unemployed                    0.7        5.2
Capital expenditure                         3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                           ...        1.0        1.3        1.0                Total Labor Force       14.5      100.0
1960-70          1970-75           1975-80          1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                  8.7               9.0               7.9              7.5               8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (%)                       5.9               6.9               5.2              5.9               6.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (1)                  14.2               9.6              12.3/c            7.7               ...
ICOR                                                        1.9               2.7               5.4              4.7               4.4
Marginal savings rate                                       0.3               0.3               0.3              0.5               0.4
Import elasticity                                           2.2               1.6               2.0              1.0               1.1
/a Preliminary.
/b Including net transfers.
/c 1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
October 1981



- 27 -                                              Annex I
Page 5 of 5
Population     :  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)
GDP per capita:  US$1,516 (1980)
KOREA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million US$ at current prices)
Indicator                                                      Actual                                      Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980/a    1981    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,523  22,497    27,114  55,074 121,077
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.          882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,212    20,846  43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services         2,180   7,992  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,115  28,638    32,848  59,810 119,694
of which: merchandise f.o.b.        1,804   6,671   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,972    24,508  45,557  95,014
Net transfers                           178      225      345     222      467      439      454        495     668      893
Current account balance                -623  -1,858    -307          8  -1,060  -4,153  -5,687    -5,415  -3,968  +2,276
(Y of GNP)                            (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.9)    (-8.2)  (-3.3)  (+3.1)
Direct investment                        66       53       75       72      61       17       -7         30     800   1,749
MLT loans (net)                         242   1,252   1,238   1,458   2,746   2,944   1,694           3,280   3,821   6,019
Official                              147      486     663      594      663      853      864     1,108      893      908
Private                                95      765     575      864   2,083   2,090       R31      2,173   2,927   5,111
Other capital                           372      92q      308    -167  -1,039   2,090   4,862        2,479   1,682  -7,436
Change in reserves                      -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898    -863           -843  -1,348  -2,611
International reserves                  610      797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,979         4,818   9,352  19,370
Reserves as months imports              3.4      1.2      2.4     2.7      1.8      1.5      1.7        1.7     1.8      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                         -        -        -       -        -        -        -
Concessional loans                    123      123      238     163      184      193      138
DAC                                 122      l08     226      132      167      773     121
OPEC                                  -        -       -       21       13       20       17
IDA                                   1       14      10        9        3        -       -
Other                                 -        1        2       1        -        -        -
Non-c.ncessional loans                317   1,511   1,518   2,040   3,729   4,448   3,306
Official export credits              18      151     132      262      219      341     614
IBRD                                  7     189      286      190      321     426      248
Other multilateral                    5       87      83       85       89       91      90
Private                             287   1,083   1,017   1,503   3,101   3,591   2,353
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                         1,797   5,54n   6,817   8,593  11,937  14,553  16,585
Official                            613   2,657   3,3S9   4,121   5,016   5,667   6,531
Private                           1,185   2,883   3,458   4,472   6,921   8,886  10,054
Tindishursed                          902   1,629   3,459   4,793   6,294   5,337  11,293
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                268      667     910   1,201   1,827   2,634   3,192
Interest                            70     283      392      475      659     936   1,442
Payments as % exports                19.4    11.3      9.6      9.2    10.7    13.5    14.2
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           ...   2,409   3,045   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047
Interest payments                     .         ..      ...     152      236      377     907
Interest as Y exports                 ...      ...      ...     1.2      1.4      1.9     4.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (X)
Official                              4.5      7.9      7.1     7.9      7.4      7.6        -
Private                               7.1      9.3      8.3     8.4      9.7    11.5         -
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                             28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    16.8            -
Private                              10.9      5.7     8.7      8.8      9.3      9.3        -
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  9 years                           35.6
Maturities due within l0 years                           61.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                            6.3
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
December 1981



- 28 -                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12 pages
KOREA
THIE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                                              Am'ount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                (less cancellations)
Number         Year         Borrower             Purpose                        Bank      TW    IDA   Undishursed
Twenty-nine loans and eight credits fully disbursed                           1,221.92  40.0  106.81
1096          1975    Republic of Korea       Education III                      22.5                        0.11
1203          1976    Republic of Korea       Highways III                       90.0                        2.02
1319          1976    ADC                     Irrigation                         29.0                       15.83
1364          1977    ADC                     Irrigation                         95.0                       45.89
1401          1977    Republic of Korea       Ports II                           67.0                       32.90
1474          1977    Republic of Korea       Vocational Training                23.0                        5.04
1503          1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation             36.0                       29.35
1507          1978    SMIB II                 Dev. Finance Co.                   55.0                        0.07
1530          1978    Republic of Korea       Rural Infrastructue II             95.0                       37.29
1542          1978    Republic of Korea       Railway VI                        120.0                        1.40
1574          1978    KDB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                  110.0                        1.44
1635          1978    KLTCB                   Dev. Finance Co.                  100.0                        4.93
1640          1978    Republic-of Korea    IHighways IV                         143.0                       94.84
1666          1979    Republic of Korea       Chungju Multipurpose              125.0                       78.39
1676          1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology             29.0                       14.89
1749          1979    SMII III                Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                        7.61
1758          1979    Republic of Korea       Second Gwangju Regional            65.0                       59.:.
1774          1979    Republic of Korea       Population I                       30.0                       30.0,C
1788          1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                               115.0                      114.48
1800          1980    Repulblic of Korea      Education V                       100.0                       98.59
1829          1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                   30.0                       23.29
1836          1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                        94.0                       61.56
1851          1980    AFDC                    Agriculture II                     50.0                       41.87
1932          1981    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                   90.0                       76.84
1933          1981    KDB IV                  Div. Finance Co.                  100.0                       83.82
1974          1981    Republic of Korea       Third Agriculture Credit           50.0                       50.00
1980          1981    Republic of Korea       Nat. Urban Land & Housing          90.0                       90.00
2004          1981    SMIB IV                 Dev. Finance Co.                   60.0                       60.00
Total                                                           3,295.02  40.0  106.81   1,162.3I0
of which has been repaid                                        236.42   -       2.79
Total now outstanding                                           3,058.60  40.0  104.02
Amount sold                       8.83
of which has been repaid        8.17                              0.66   -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                3,057.94  40.0  104.02
Total undisbursed                                               1,162.30   -       -       1,162.30



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                                          Amount ($ million)
Year      Obligor                 Types of Business            Loan  Equity Total
1968   KDFC                       Development Financing            -     0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.              Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                        Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                       Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                        Development Financing           -     0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -     0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1973   KDFC                        Development Financing           -     1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -     1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                        Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                            -     0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -     1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1980   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                            -     0.8    0.8
1980   KDFC                        Development Financing           -     2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
Total gross commitment                                  106.4   27.3  133.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    65.1    3.7   68.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                        41.3   23.6   64.9
TOTAL undisbursed                                         4.2      .5   -4.7
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project comprises irrigation and land development on 10,350 ha
together with river channel improvement and village roads. The project area
has been reduced from 12,665 ha at appraisal as a result of deleting about
2,300 ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation in
construction costs, have become uneconomic. The project has been divided
into eight subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.
One of these subprojects has been completed, and three more will be completed
by mid-1984; loan disbursements will be limited to these four subprojects.
The remaining four will be financed entirely by the Government and will be
completed by 1986.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 19,050
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation canals, reclamation of
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 1,200 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation on 4,600 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of uplands.
The main contract for the estuary dam construction, awarded in December 1977,
is virtually complete. Other parts of the project have fallen behind due to
a shortage of local budget. The Bank and the Government recently agreed that
loan disbursements would be limited to the eight subprojects under implemen-
tation and scheduled for completion by mid-1984 and that the Government would
provide all funds to carry out and complete the remaining subprojects by the
end of 1985.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and draiange improvements for
11,000 ha, including 5,200 ha of land consolidation and 1,900 ha of land use
conversion from upland to paddy. The project has been divided into seven
subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract. Insufficient
budgetary allocations have delayed the project from its start in 1978, but
the Government has now approved a funding program which will allow completion
of five subprojects by 1984 and Bank disbursements will be limited to these
subprojects.  The remaining two subprojects will be financed entirely by the
Government and will be completed by the end of 1986.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 46 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The river training and rural telephones components were completed
on schedule in 1979 and the water supply component was completed in 1980.
Design work on the minor irrigation component is complete. The total area
of the irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,192 ha. Contracts
nave been awarded for all 36 subprojects but construction progress is slow
due to shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
SeRtember 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project would support investments in Korea's agroprocessing
subsector. Enterprises engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservations of fruits, vegetables, meat and
fisheries products, oil and extraction, processing of grain based foods, raw
silk spinning, and production of fruit juice based beverages, dairy products,
and animal feeds would be the main subborrowers. The project will benefit
the farmers through widening their market opportunities, provide increased
supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed food throughout the
year to consumers, and create about 5,000 additional jobs. The project
would also contribute to the institutional strengthening of the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC). Sublending is progressing well.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase of (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12 pages
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, on-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-
scale agro-processing and backyard livestock. The project was declared
effective in August 1981 and implementation is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979;_Closing
Date:  June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, and generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually for
Korea's power system.  The principal features of the project are a 90 m high
concrete dam and a 450 MW power plant on the South Han River, a reregulating
dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam, relocation of roads and a rail-
way, and implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families
affected by the project. The contract for the main dam and power plant was
awarded in December 1979 and construction is proceeding on schedule. The
major accomplishments to date are completion of the excavation of the slide
zone on the right bank and diversion of the river through the left ba-k
tunnels. Detailed planning is underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by SMIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000.  Funds have been entirely committed and final disbursement
will be made shortly.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Progress is good.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12 pages
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to
$10.0 million of the proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea
Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to
KDFC, by way of subloans. Progress is good and only about 6% of funds are
still to be disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises two components: (a) the development of Korea
Institute of Electronic Technology (KIET) which, through its service, devel-
opment and production activities, would stimulate and support the Korean
electronics industry's drive into new areas; and (b) the establishment of a
program to promote and finance RD&E carried out by KIET for the electronics
industry. Project implementation was about 18 months behind schedule due to
delays in procurement and shortage of local funds. However, the semiconduc-
tor facility, which is the main physical component of the project, has
recently been completed and started up in November 1981. KIET's work program
has been prepared with input from industry. The training and expert invita-
tion program has been implemented satisfactorily. Recently some shortage of
counterpart funds has affected the project and proposed institutional
changes have given rise to concern; these matters are under discussion with
the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. Progress is
good.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12 pages
Nan    i829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities. Sublending is progressing well.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two years. In
order to encourage increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial
borrowings by KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature,
which would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The
project incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which
would be implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform
of the financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB over the next two years. In
order to encourage a reduction in KDB's reliance on long-term official
borrowings, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which
would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which would be
implemented by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1981; Effective Date:
September 1, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by SMIB over the next two years.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by
SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically produced
capital goods (estimated at 60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12 pages
support the Government's policy of increasing the productivity of Korea's
small- and medium-scale industrial sector which plays a vital role in
providing employment opportunities and in assisting the country's export
effort. It also initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension
services for the SMI sector.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,
particularly in rural areas. It is estimated that about 10 million people
would be provided primary health care services under the project. Progress
is being made on a number of fronts. Training to convert unipurpose into
multipurpose workers is going on, the development of curricula for midwifery
training is advancing, workshops have been conducted and coordinators
appointed. Designs for the civil works are being prepared. Although some
delays in training have occurred, this has been due to budget constraints
rather than to managerial problems. The budget allocations made by the
Government for 1980 and 1981 correspond to only about 10% of the amounts
required. This implies a delay of at least one year in project execution.
7he Government has indicated that it plans to compensate for the shortfall in
1982. Project management is coping with this situation well and is trying to
make do with the funds available.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
*            and Germany.  After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule.  All
civil works contracts have been awarded. Six VTIs are now in operation.
About 80% of equipment has been awarded and about 60% delivered. All experts
are in post and the fellowship program has been completed. Management
performance has also improved.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank-s first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12 pages
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national programs and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is about the same as planned.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation on the Second Gwangju Regional Project is underway
satisfactorily. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects.
Civil works contracts for two subprojects (Mogpo Water Supply and Gwangju
Industrial Estate Access Road) were awarded in December 1979 and
construction works are on schedule. Contract awards for two subprojects
were made in October 1980 and another seven in December.  Detailed designs
for the remaining subprojects have also been completed but bid award has
been postponed to 1981 primarily due to budgetary problems. Progress o-Li
implementation of the aquaculture development program has been slow due  0o
staffing changes in the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
(NFFC). Preparation of Terms of Reference for various studies under th;
Technical Assistance Program are underway. On the whole, project
implementation is satisfactory, though rapid escalation in construction
costs in Korea is expected to cause a cost overrun of about 37%.
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objectives of the project are to provide housing for lxw-
income families and to further develop the capabilities of the major piblic
institutions serving the housing sector, namely KLDC and KNHC.  These
objectives are to be pursued in the context of an ongoing dialogue on
housing policy issues between the Bank and the Korean Government which will
be intensified through the technical assistance and housing sector study to
be financed from this loan. The project includes development of about
380 ha of urban residential land in ten medium-sized cities including
off-site infrastructure, construction of about 8,500 housing units for
low-income households, community and commercial facilities and technical
assistance covering staff training, professional services, project
preparation, studies and monitoring and evaluation.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12 pages
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979.. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants were completed in 1980 and a contract for
detailed engineering has been negotiated. Disbursements are nearing
completion. The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of:  (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter wharf No.
5 were let in 1979, following delay in appointing the consultants for final
engineering. Estimated costs have increased to $161 million ($98 foreign
exchange) compared with the appraisal estimate of $112 ($70 foreign
exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commercial accounting from January 1,
1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR. The loan will also finance transport sector



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12 pages
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. Studies
of the feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 have been carried
out and the transport sector studies are under way.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date: March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. A contract for the
study was signed and work started in September 1979. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and the remaining roads in September 1979.
Costs have escalated sharply due to inflation, and due to budgetary
constraint, construction work is proceeding about one year behind the
original schedule.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project focuses on the goals set jointly with the Government
on the transport sector, namely to increase the capacity of the transport
system in the most economically efficient way and to develop and strengthen
the institutions dealing with the transport sector. The main component of
the project aims at:  (a) initiating the institutional changes necessary to
gradually transform the Korean National Railroad (KNR) into a public
corporation; (b) providing KNR with the capacity required to meet forecast
traffic; and (c) reducing operating and maintenance costs. The loan will
finance rails, track maintenance equipment, breakdown cranes, passenger
cars, freight cars, workshop equipment, technical assistance and training.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12 pages
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date:  March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in the development
program of the Korea Electric Company (KECO) to meet the load growth up to
1986. The project would provide for the installation of two 500 KW
coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; coal handling and
storage facilities, fuel oil tanks, ash system and storage area, a fuel
unloading dock for ships up to 100,000 DWT displacement; a pumping station
and a 17 km steel pipe to transport fresh water to the station; and a 160 km
double circuit, 345 KV transmission line between the power station and
Seoul, and related terminal substations and management consulting services.
In September 1979, contracts for the main equipment which is not being
financed by the Bank were signed and call for bids for 12 equipment packages
will be made in mid-April. Power rates have been increased periodically and
KECO has been able to meet its 9% rate of return objective.



- 40 -                     ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project         2 years
(b) Agency which prepared the project: Government/Federation of
Korean Industries
(c) Date of first Bank mission to
consider the project            : May 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission   : June 28, 1981
(e)  Negotiations-completed             : February 11, 1982
(f)  Date of Board Presentation         : March 25, 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness    : May 31, 1982
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government to exchange views from time to time with the Bank
on its industrial RD&E policies (para. 34);
(b)  The Government to provide KTDC, during 1982-84, with additional
equity of W 5 billion and to make available additional loan funds
totalling W 14 billion either as direct loans or government
guaranteed bond issues on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank (para. 47);
(c) The Government to provide KTDC with supplemental financing (to
cover a portion of its losses on condition loan operations
during the initial years) in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 48);



- 41 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) KTDC to submit details of training and expert invitation
program to the Bank by September 1, 1982 (para. 42);
(e) KTDC to review with the Bank by the end of each year beginning
with 1982, the operational targets to be met by KTDC during the
following year and on the basis of such reviews adopt operational
targets mutually acceptable to KTDC and the Bank (para. 44); and
(f)  KTDC to raise additional equity of at least W 2.5 billion from
private sources during 1982-84 (para 47);
r



lb



;                                                                                                               s lvs>§  s jt?)~. -~  129   IBRB12351IR
VI
m wa
~4KOR'EA
'~REP O-   ~
KOR KEA
~~~V~~~~WW~~~~~~'t~~~~~(  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   '-  / ~~~~~~~~~38  -
S.                     GY       NGGIlw           s ~ hunheon       WEON
.._. _  Provi ancgnbundrie
-uijeongbu
II25                       12f6-                                                                                           mchog
nv ,u5,e  'rby tf.
ba,,da'MS Shout, OSIt5
d-y
37.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
Moor.pn      <'Cheonan     \              /~~~~honju  _~Anon
~~~~anghOn   c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~""-Phn
-360
Beobsoong~~~~~~~5~~/i         7        GYEO~~~~~n G  '-o
Gwanqlu  ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~       8U~~SAN
35*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
KOREA,
')2`     1                                         -      Primary roads
34.
----.--Railways under construction
+f  Airports
4.Ports
Rivers
Special cities
--Provincial boundaries
Jeju                                                     -  .Iteotoo boundaries
JEJU                       ~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~0 20   40  60    80    ISO I9 10   140   160
/                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
0         20        dO        6O         eQ        too
MILES
t25-                         126                            12 7                         128,                          129'



