OFUMENTS      LOAN UMER 2112 ED
Loan Agreement
(Technology Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KOREA TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CDRPORATION
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN NUNBER 2112 KD
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after  called   the  Bank)  and   KOREA  TECHNOLOGY  DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION (hereinafter called the Borrower), a statutory body
established and operating under the laws of -he Republic of Korea
(hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "Sub-loan" means a loan, including a Conditional Loan
or a Conventional Loan, made or proposed to be made by the
Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b)     "Act"  means   the  Korea   Technology  Development
Corporation Act of the Guarantor dated December 31, 1980 (Law
No. 3312), as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(c)    "Conditional Loan" means a loan made      under the
Borrower's conditional lending authority specified in Article 3
(2) of the Act.


﻿-2-
(d)    "Conventional Loan" means a loan made under the
Borrower's conventional lending authority specified in Article 3
(1) of the Act.
(e)    "Investment" means an     Investme'*, other   than  a
Sub-loan, made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the
proceeds of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an
Investment Project.
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an Investment.
(g)    "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan or Investment.
(h) "W" and "Won" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(i)   "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(j)   "Decree" means the Enforcement Decree of the Korea
Technology Development Corporation Act, promulgated on April 22,
1981, by Presidential Decree No. 10292, as amended to the date of
this Agreement.
(k)   "By-laws" means the Articles of Incorporation of the
Korea Technology Development Corporation dated April 28, 1981, as
amended to the date of this Agreement.
(1)   "Policy Statement" means the Statement of Investment
and Operational Policies approved by the Board of Directors of
the Borrower on May 25, 1981, as amended to the date of this
Agreement.
(m)  "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty
million dollars ($50,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower:
(i) on account of withdrawals made by an Investment
Enterprise under a Sub-loan or Investment to
finance (A) 100% of the reasonable foreign cur-
rency cost of directly imported goods and services
and of staff training in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested, or
(B) 60% of the reasonable cost of domestically
manufactured or procured items in respect of which
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested;
provided, however, that (1) no withdrawal shall be
made in respect of a Sub-loan or Investment unless
the Sub-loan or Investment shall have been
approved by the Bank, or the Sub-loan shall be a
free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and
(2) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
Sub-loan or Investment shall exceed the sum of
$1,500,000 equivalent; and
(ii)  to meet the reasonable foreign currency cost of
the   consultant's   services,  goods   and   staff
training under Part B of the Project; provided,
however, that the amounts so withdrawn shall not
exceed   in  the   aggregate  the   equivalent   of
$650,000, except as the Bank may otherwise agree.
(b)   Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this
Section, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $300,000
equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for


﻿such Investment Project, the foregoing amount being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section, the first five Sub-loans to be made as Conventional
Loans, and the first ten Sub-loans to be made as Conditional
Loans shall not be deemed to be free-limit Sub-loans and no with-
drawals on account of each such Sub-loan shall be made unless
such Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank.
(d)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of: (i) expendi-
tures made before the date of this Agreement, except expenditures
made after January 1, 1982, which do not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $1,500,000, and which have been made for a
Sub-loan or Investment approved by the Bank; or (ii) expenditures
by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject to
the Bank's approval or in respect of an Investment if such
expenditures shall have been made more than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
Sub-loan or Investment the application and information required
by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in respect of a free-
limit Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit Sub-
loan the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) or an Investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions
of the Sub-loan or Investment; and (iii) such other information
as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)  Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.


﻿-5-
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before December 31, 1984.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to seven hundred
and thirty-eight thousand nine hundred and sixteen dollars
($738,916). The fee shall be payable in such currency or curren-
cies as the Bank shall specify. In the event that the Bank shall
not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective Date,
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself the amount required for the full pay-
ment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified for the
purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
made as a Conventional Loan, unless the Bank and the Borrower
shall otherwise agree shall (i) not extend beyond 10 years
(including a maximum grace period of 3 years) calculated from the
date of approval by the Bank of such Sub-loan, or in the case of
a free-limit Sub-loan, of authorization by the Bank to make
witharawls from the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii)
shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more


﻿- 6 -
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(c)  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall charge interest on amounts withdrawn and outstanding on
Sub-loans made as Conventional Loans at an annual rate of not
less than two and one-fourth per cent (2-1/4%) more than the
interest rate specified in Section 2.07 of this Loan Agreement.
(d)  The terms of each Conditional Loan shall provide for
royalty payments to the Borrower of an amount at least equivalent
to the amount which would have been payable as principal,
interest and other charges for a Conventional Loan in the same
amount and for the same maturity.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing the development of such technological
capability of industry in the Republic of Korea as will con-
tribute to the economic and social development of the country.
The Project consists of:
Part A:    the financing of specific projects through loans
to and investments in private enterprises in the Republic of
Korea, in furtherance of the corporate purp.0es of the Bor-
rower as provided in the Act, the Decree, the By-laws and
the Policy Statement; and
Part B:   the strengthening of the operational capability of
the Borrower, including the procurement of educational
materials, the carrying out of studies and surveys and the
exchange of experts relevant to the Borrower's activities,
and the training of the Borrower's staff.
(b)  The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Act, the Decree, the By-laws and the
Policy Statement.


﻿-7-
(c)  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part B
of the Project, the Borrower shall, until December 31, 1984,
employ consultants and experts whose selection, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and pro-
cedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan or Investment shall be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written con-
tract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any Sub-loan and to
the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
Investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, -financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, under procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank, account being taken also of other relevant factors such
as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts there-
for, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the com-
petence of the parties rendering them; and (2) such goods and
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with
representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or
repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the Bank or
the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of


﻿-8-
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans and Investments and, where appropriate,
the benefits to be derived from the foregoing.
(b)  Within six months f.llowing the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations in agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or
its agencies or others for relending, investment or management.
The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause each of its
subsidiaries to observe and perform the obligations of the
Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall
or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were
binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.06. Not later than September 1, 1982, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank for its review a program for staff
training, including on-the-job training to be rendered by experts


﻿-9-
to be engaged under Part B of the Project referred to in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement. The Borrower shall take into account
the comments of the Bank on the program and shall thereafter
implement the program in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.07. The Borrower undertakes to ensure that the
maximum amount outstanding at any time of all loans to and equity
investments in any one single entity shall not exceed such limits
as shall be satisfactory to the Bank. For the purposes of this
Section, a "single entity" means a single person as defined in
Article 7 of the Decree.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) review, by the end of
each of its fiscal years beginning with its 1982 fiscal year and
in consultation with the Bank, the operational targets with
respect to the amounts of Conditional Loans, Conventional Loans
and equity investments to be approved by the Borrower during the
following fiscal year as set forth in the Policy Statement; and
(b) on the basis of such reviews, introduce such modifications to
said targets as shall be mutually acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expend% ure.
(b)   The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Accoant
on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in


﻿- 10 -
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, separate opinion by
said auditors: (A) on the separate accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of Section 4.01 hereof; and (B) in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of Section
4.01 hereof, as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made avail-
able to it and withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) to furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning said accounts and financial state-
ments, records and expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b)  The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt, such
lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that
effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien
shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any subsi-
diary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at no
cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and other
charges on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank
with the Borrower's existing or prospective shareholders (other


﻿- 11 -
than the Guarantor or any of its agencies or instrumentalities),
whereby an additional amount of not less than Won 2.5 billion
will be paid in to the capital of the Borrower on or before
December 31, 1984.
Section 4.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be exceeded, promptly take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt, if after the incurring of such
debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
four times-the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which it
is originally incurred;
(b)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date
and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down and
outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement, and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c)   whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in terms of Won debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of
servicing such debt;
(d)    "consolidated  debt  of  the   Borrower  and  all  its
subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt owed by the Borrower to
any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any


﻿- 12 -
other subsidiary; and (ii) the debt guaranteed by the Borrower
pursuant to the Act or the Decree; and
(e)  "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up
capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or
of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take such steps satis-
factory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies (including Won) used in its
lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.09. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their   representatives  with   regard  to   the  administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Borrower and its subsidiaries.
Section   4.10.  The   Borrower  shall  enable   the  Bank's
representatives to inspect the records referred to in Section
4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual


﻿- 13 -
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Act, the Decree,
or the By-laws which would materially and adversely affect the
operations or the financial condition of the Borrower;
(c)  a change shall have been made in the Policy Statement
without the Bank's consent;
(d) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(e)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been
created or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such
creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the
conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
condition or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and
personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a)  the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 hereof shall
occur; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
hereof shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date           I J     9 &2   , is hereby
specified for the purposes     of  ection 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 14 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
The Korea Technology Development
Corporation
FKI Building 9th
1-124, Yoido-Dong, Yongdungpo-Ku
Seoul, Korea
Cable address:                    Telex:
KTDC                            FEKOIS 25544
Yongdungpo-Ku
Seoul
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United Sta- s of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
KOREAN TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By
Authrized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1987
through   August 15, 1995                  2,780,000
On February 15, 1996                            2,740,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 16 -
Preminum on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                2.50%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                               4.95%
More than six years but not
more than ten years
before maturity                               8.30%
More than ten years but not
more than twelve years
before maturity                               9.95%
More than twelve years before                      11.60%
maturity


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
(2) The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the
words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of su.h Section shall
have been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been
denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the
Bank shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant
to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the
Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of
the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.      Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the dank thereunto
this  1       day of    4, 198 Z
FOR SECRETARY


