Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17275GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LEARNING and INNOVATION LOAN (LIL)
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
GEORGIA
FOR A
CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT
January 29, 1998
Human Development Sector
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of end October 1997)
Currency Unit = Lari
Lari 1   US $0.80
US$1.00 = 1.30 Lari
FISCAL YEAR
Jan. 1-Dec. 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYM
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CH       =      Cultural Heritage
CHEC            Cultural Heritage Executive Committee
CHI             Cultural Heritage Initiative
ECA             Europe and Central Asia
GEF      =      Global Environment Facility
GoG             Government of Georgia
IDF      =      Institutional Development Fund
IDA             International Development Association
ICOMOS =        International Council of Monumnents and Sites
LIL      =      Learning and Innovation Loan
MoC      =      Ministry of Culture
MoF      =      Ministry of Finance
NGO             Non-governmental Organization
PIU             Project Implementation Unit
UNESCO =        United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
WMF    =        World Monuments Fund
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director: Judy O'Connor
Sector Acting Director: J. Christopher Lovelace
Program Team Leader: Thomas Blinkhorn



i
Georgia
Cultural Heritage Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context
I. Sector-related CAS goals supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Disbursement conditions
3. Dated Covenant
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
Annexes
Annex 1.      Project Design Summary
Annex 2.      Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.      Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.      Financial Summary
Annex 5.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table 5A.  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table 5B.   Procurement Schedule
Table 5C.   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table 5D.  Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Annex 6.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 7.      Documents in Project File
Annex 8.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.      Country at a Glance
Annex 10.    Historical Context of Cultural Heritage in Georgia
Annex 11.    Environmental Data Sheet
Map          No. IBRD 29231R



Georgia
Cultural Heritage Project
Project Appraisal Document
ECA Region
Georgia Country Unit
Date: January 29, 1998                               Program Team Leader: Thomas Blinkhorn
Country Director: Judy O'Connor                      Sector Acting Director: J. Christopher Lovelace
Project ID: GE-PE-55573  Sector: Multi-sectoral      Program Objective Category: EA, PA, EN, PV
Lending Instrument: LIL                              Program of Targeted Intervention:  [] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan    [X] Credit    [  Guarantee    [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRmr):US$4.49 million / SDR 3.4 million
Proposed terms:                       [X]  Multicurrency     [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10 years    [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed        [   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35 years
Commitment fee: 0.5% on undisbursed credit balance, beginning 60 days after signing less any waiver.
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                            Local             Foreign            Total
Government                           0.36               0.12             0.48
IDA                               2.96               1.53             4.49
Total                             3.32               1.65             4.97
Borrower: Government of Georgia (GoG)
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Cultural Heritage Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and Board of Trustees
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):    1998      1999      2000     2001
Annual   0.58        1.32      1.32     1.27
Cumulative    0.58      1.90      3.22     4.49
Project implementation period: 3 yrs. Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/98 Expected closing date: 06/30/2001
OSD PAD Form: July 30. 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project development objective is to improve the management and promotion of Georgia's
rich cultural heritage by (a) testing approaches that could revive the once dynamic tourism industry and
(b) engendering social cohesion and national identity during the difficult economic transition.
Performance Indicators:
I. Increase in number of tourists, foreign and local, to pilot restoration sites and other sites
benefiting from emergency repairs.
2. Incorporation by Government and communities of lessons from pilot project institution-
building and physical investments into future new site restorations and cultural activities.
3. Improvement of capacities and skills of cultural heritage institutions, including at the
community level, and stimulation of public-private partnerships in cultural heritage tourism.
4. Increase in numbers of cultural heritage related activities, such as national music
competitions, arts festivals, and experimental dance troupes during project life.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
CAS document number: 17000-GE   Date of latest CAS discussion: October 21, 1997
The CAS supports the Government's development agenda in four broad areas: economic growth
and diversification; strengthening of public finance; environmental protection, and poverty reduction.
The proposed LIL supports the latter two objectives in the following ways:
1. Protecting the Environment. The project has already inspired a sequence of actions in the
historic area of Old Town Tbilisi to address a serious underground water/wastewater problem (i.e. well
monitoring investigation followed by detailed feasibility study, both financed by trust funds). Long term
resolution of this problem can only be handled through other assistance activities such as the proposed
Tbilisi Water and Wastewater Improvement project. In addition, the development of a Old Town, Tbilisi
Integrated Conservation Management Plan will combine historic preservation guidelines with
environmental planning principles. Environmental analyses will be carried out at the pilot sites, and
specific site management and conservation plans will be developed for the two most environmentally
sensitive sites (Uplistsikhe and Shatili).
2. Reducing Poverty. The CAS envisaged that this objective would be achieved indirectly,
mainly through achieving sustained growth by sound macroeconornic policies, fostering development of
the private sector, and through short term interventions targeted to vulnerable groups. Social analysis has
revealed that most people living in or near the four pilot cultural heritage (CH) sites selected for
assistance under this project are poor. By upgrading cultural sites and testing new opportunities for
tourism development, the project will provide employment to some of these people. In addition,
physical infrastructure and environmental improvements should enhance their standard of living.
The proposed LIL indirectly supports the other two CAS objectives by (a) piloting public-
private partnerships for revival of tourism; if successful, this could serve the CAS goal of fostering
new sources of growth; and (b) testing cost recovery mechanisms in selected cultural heritage areas
that could, over time, supplement government finance and thus strengthen public finance.



Page 3
Consistent with the CAS' overarching aims to foster a stronger private sector role in the
Georgian economy while encouraging Government to pursue a supportive enabling environment, this
project is intended as a single intervention in support of those goals. No follow-on assistance operation
is planned by the Bank.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government places high priority on sustained growth by encouraging the emerging private
sector in all key economic areas. Among other things, the Government is beginning to implement plans
to strengthen the legal system, reorient the structure of government (national and local), and rehabilitate
basic infrastructure. Parallel investments to (a) protect and save unique cultural heritage sites from
further deterioration and (b) revive or establish basic tourist infrastructure and services, offer high
potential for future revenue generation in Georgia. Small but visible investments in historically
distinctive cultural landmarks can also attract private investors.
In discussions with the Bank's country management team in Tbilisi in October 1997, the
Government of Georgia (GoG) requested assistance from the Bank to provide a stronger cultural
heritage dimension to its economic and social development program. Historically, Georgia's economy
was highly dependent on tourism due to its unique ecological diversity, ancient cultural sites, rich
traditions in art and music, and thriving crafts and handicraft industry. Before independence, the city of
Tbilisi and the Black Sea coast attracted large numbers of visitors annually from Eastern Europe and the
former Soviet Union. Cultural heritage provided a source of strong national identity and vibrant tourism.
Since the breakup of the Soviet Union, tourism has collapsed and fiscal constraints have prevented
essential maintenance and functioning of cultural sites and programs. Recognizing the significant
national and global value of its cultural heritage, and its potential not only to enhance social cohesion but
also revive the tourism industry, the GoG requested help to: i) further develop a longer term national CH
program and ii) test physical and institutional investments through a Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL). The CH project will build upon the institutional foundation established under the IDF-supported
Cultural Heritage Initiative (CHI), underway since 1996. This initiative has helped develop stronger
public awareness of the importance of cultural heritage conservation, establish a new database on the
most important cultural sites, and formulate new national legislation covering cultural heritage
management and protection that will shortly be considered by the Parliament. The CH project design
benefited from the experience with the Bank-financed Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation project,
nearing completion, as well as the recently approved Social Investment Fund project. The latter project
could, in some of its financing activities, complement the CH project by supporting urgently needed
infrastructure rehabilitation. Finally, there are strong links between the CH project and environmental
interventions in Georgia supported by the Bank, GEF, and other donors.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will indirectly explore ways of diversifying sources of economic growth and
strengthening public finance. It will help generate local employment and alleviate poverty since the four
pilot sites targeted for assistance have large numbers of very poor people, according to recent social
surveys and income assessments. Through comprehensive conservation planning of cultural heritage
sites, the project will also attempt to address the improved protection and management of
environmentally fragile areas. At present there is both an economic and cultural urgency to the
restoration of critical sites and material artifacts that are in serious states of deterioration. The CH
project will test cultural and eco-tourism, and private sector involvement, in a potentially lucrative future
tourism market. By emphasizing community-level initiatives and public-private partnerships, the project
will test the scope and responsiveness of local community support to help manage and sustain such
investments. The project will also pilot the implementation of new legislation and regulations in support
of cultural heritage preservation. Finally, the project will help leverage assistance from other donors for
cultural heritage preservation. This is already happening to some extent, as the Council of Europe and



Page 4
the governments of Italy, Denmark, and the Netherlands are providing specialized technical assistance in
various cultural heritage areas (i.e. legal reform; Kintsvisi church fresco restoration; Old Town, Tbilisi
underground water investigations). There has been close collaboration throughout the CH project
preparation with UNESCO, which has designated several Georgian CH sites as World Monument sites.
The CH project design was tailored to complement work by other donors, most of which provide
funding for technical assistance but not investment purposes.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description aind Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
1. Investment Component
A. Emergency Rehabilitation Fund: This demand-driven Fund will respond to project proposals
submitted by outside organizations and community groups. The Fund will provide financing for urgent
repairs at priority CH sites, and for important cultural activities and artifacts at serious risk. Criteria for
selection and evaluation of microproject proposals have been developed and agreed upon during
appraisal. The Save the Georgian Culture Committee, established by the President's office, will evaluate
proposals. The CH PIU will provide technical assistance to the Committee and beneficiaries, and will
monitor and evaluate implementation of projects. In the initial stage of the Fund's operation, financing
would be limited to US$75,000 equivalent for each approved activity; funds would be on-lent in cash (as
grants) or in kind to organizations and community groups in accordance with memorandum of
understanding between beneficiaries and the Save the Georgian Culture Committee. Details on
application forms, the memorandum of understanding and related information will be contained in the
Project Implementation Manual. (See attachment to Annex 2 for description of Fund and selection
criteria).
B. Pilot Priority Cultural Heritage Sites: This subcomponent will finance four cultural heritage pilot sites
for historic renovation and related activities. These sites were chosen through consensus by the
Georgian PIU, CH committees on the basis of their priorities and respective cultural significance,
evidence of community support for restoration and management, as well as community willingness to
consider new public-private partnerships and possible cost recovery mechanisms. These sites will serve
as prototypes for additional public and private partnerships in helping revive the tourist industry and for
increasing the participation of community groups and municipalities in local cultural heritage protection
throughout the nation. Funding for each of the pilot sites would be on-lent as grants to local authorities
or community groups by the CH PIU in accordance with a signed Memorandum of Understanding that
would reflect (a) a simplified plan, budget and schedule for operation and preventive maintenance for
the proposed activity as endorsed by the community and (b) where appropriate, arrangements for
promoting public-private partnerships as well as options for testing new fee structures at renovated
tourist sites such as museums and parks. PIU staff and consultants would assist pilot site stakeholders
with preparation of such plans. Local communities would be expected to contribute in cash or in kind to
the project activity. Details on the pilot site plans and on-lending arrangements will be contained in the
Project Implementation Manual.
In Old Town, Tbilisi, activities will include the renovation of historic buildings, including
possibly an historic caravansary, facade and landscape improvements, and financing for historic home
repairs of gutters and drainpipes. Investigations are currently underway to monitor the underground
water problem in the Old Town in order to identify areas that are safe from water damage where
investments can be initiated. A feasibility study, to be financed from a bilateral trust fund, will then
identify least cost solutions which address the systemic underground water problem in the Old Town.



Page 5
Other priority sites for restoration include the historic mountain village of Signaghi in the
Kakheti wine-growing region of eastern Georgia; the ancient rock city of Uplistsikhe, a two hour drive
from Tbilisi (see map); and the indigenous village of Shatili in the northern Caucasus mountains.
Priority investments in Signaghi have been identified in consultation with the community, municipal
govemment, and regional Governor, and include renovation of historic public and private buildings, a
bed and breakfast hotel, and a regional tourism center and textile/handicraft center. In Uplistsikhe cave
city, once a major tourist attraction, the major investment will entail the development of a site
management plan and visitor's interpretation center. In Shatili, investments will include urgent structural
repairs of ancient towers and a program to develop low-impact alpine tourism.
II. Technical Assistance Component
A. PIU Support and Institution-building: The project will strengthen and support the CH PIU in project
management, finance and administration, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, engineering, and
other specializations. Several foreign specialists will be secunded to the PIU for interim periods to
advise PIU staff. The Ministry of Culture and other important cultural heritage institutions will also
have access to technical assistance and capacity-building through voluntary participation in the
Emergency Rehabilitation Fund, as well as training and study tours.
B. Training and Study Tours: Training will be provided by foreign specialists and Georgian counterparts
to the PIU, other heritage agencies and institutions, municipal government, and community groups
involved in the project. Study tours will include visits to smaller towns in western and eastern Europe
that offer successful examples of cultural heritage conservation and tourism. In addition, provision will
be made for a research initiative at one of the CH pilot sites, possibly Signaghi, which will involve
provision of training for Georgian specialists in economic evaluation methodologies.
C. Public Awareness Program: A program of public information, education, and communication
activities related to cultural heritage will be supported. These will involve the media and non-
governmental organizations. Activities may include seminars for journalists, a CH newsletter, arts and
music competitions, and oral histories on national culture, narrated by elderly Georgians and others.
D. Integrated Conservation Master Plan, Old Town: The plan aims to serve as a blueprint for all future
development in the cultural heritage zone of Old Town, Tbilisi. It will be a collaborative effort between
foreign specialists, Tbilisi city architects, the PIU, and other experts, and will include conservation and
cultural heritage preservation planning principles and guidelines, as well as economic and market
analyses.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Component: Monitoring and evaluation of all activities is crucial
due to the nature of the learning and innovation loan. A Management Information System (MIS) will be
developed by a specialist in the PIU as the major tool to monitor project impacts and performance.
Other elements of the M&E program will include technical and financial audits, beneficiary
assessments, Bank supervision, and independent reporting. Participatory monitoring will be undertaken
by community CH committees at the pilot sites.



Page 6
Component                Category       Cost Inc1.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   financing
Investment                        physical      3.57             72%      3.18       89%
(goods,
works,
services)
Technical Assistance              capacity       1.40            28%       1.31      94%
building;
project
management;
learningl
adaptation;
monitoring
and
evaluation
Total 4.97             100      4.49       90%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Key policy reforms supported by the project include: (i) irnplementation of new legislation for
cultural heritage preservation; (ii) implementation of a fund-raising strategy to encourage private sector
involvement; and iii) tests with partial cost recovery models (e.g. user fees at certain cultural heritage
sites, community contributions). The development of an adequate institutional framework, including
active national and local community CH Committees, and establishment of a solid foundation for a
strategic national cultural heritage program, would also be supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population:
As a key project objective, the CH investments will directlly benefit local communities at the
four CH pilot sites, as well as those where emergency repairs will take place through employment
opportunities arising from renovation work and revived tourism activities at historic cultural sites (e.g.
bed and breakfasts, tours, tourism centers). Without the project, thiese unique sites and artifacts could
either be lost forever or the cost of restoring them will increase significantly. The organizations that
directly receive grants from the Emergency Rehabilitation Fund will also benefit. The Georgian
population, and foreign visitors, may benefit through a more enabling environment for the revival of
tourism, and through new opportunities to learn and access Georgia's unique cultural heritage. Greater
private sector involvement will be tested, and private investors may also benefit. Different levels of
government, including the Ministry of Culture and local municipalities, will benefit through capacity-
building and direct investments. Additional benefits would include: (a) increased public awareness of the
importance of cultural heritage preservation and support for it as a key element in future economic
development of the nation; I(b) improved community organization and implementation capacity at the
CH sites; (c) attraction of a wider network of donors, private investors, and corporate philanthropy in
support of Georgia' s cultural heritage; (d) enhanced social cohesion through greater attention to the
uniqueness of Georgia's cultural traditions and achievements.



Page 7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period. The project would be implemented over a period of three years
(1998-2000).
Executing Agencies.
*   The existing Cultural Heritage Initiative Board of Trustees/Council of Advisors, established
by decree in 1996 with assistance from a Bank IDF grant, would have broad oversight
responsibility.
*   The Cultural Heritage Executive Committee (CHEC) would serve as the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) for project activities, and have overall project implementation,
management, coordination, and supervision responsibility. A project implementation
manual containing details about project implementation procedures and processes is being
finalized by the PIU. Completion of this document and its formal adoption, in a manner
satisfactory to IDA, is proposed as a condition of credit effectiveness. Proposals for use of
financing from the Emergency Rehabilitation Fund would be reviewed and evaluated by the
national Save the Georgian Culture Committee, established by Presidential decree in March
1992. The Committee, comprised of representatives of the Ministry of Culture, Academy of
Sciences, Parliament, the President's office, and other cultural institutions, will act on
behalf of the President of Georgia. Technical advice, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation would be provided by the PIU.
*   Community CH committees, with technical assistance and coordination provided by the
PIU, would implement small-scale project activities at pilot CH renovation sites.
Project Coordination. The existing Cultural Heritage Executive Committee (CHEC) will
continue as the renamed PIU with a mandate of project management and monitoring. It will serve as
focal point for all communications with the Bank and other involved parties. The PIU is currently
headed by an experienced Georgian art historian, with the support of a Technical Coordinator,
Accountant, and Secretary; local consultants (lawyers, social scientists, public relations experts) also are
employed periodically for selected tasks. Recruitment of additional foreign experts, in the fields of
project management, procurement, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation, will be
essential for building capacity in the small PIU for its expanded role in the project. Some financing is
provided under the project's technical assistance component for these purposes, and trust funds are also
being sought.
Project Oversight. The Cultural Heritage Initiative Board of Trustees/Council of Advisors,
with broad representation of concerned Government agencies and non-governmental representatives,
would facilitate coordination, provide policy guidance, and oversee implementation. The PIU would
regularly submit progress reports to the Board based on performance and impact monitoring indicators.
The Bank supervision team would also provide oversight and quality control.
Procurement and Disbursement. Detailed procurement arrangements and disbursement
understandings have been agreed with the PIU/Govemment and will be reflected in the project
implementation manual. Annex 5 contains a summary of the arrangements covering goods, civil works,
and technical assistance, as well as disbursements.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. The PIU would establish and
maintain project accounts in a format acceptable to IDA, and have them audited each fiscal year, in
accordance with Bank guidelines, by independent auditors also acceptable to IDA. It would maintain all
documentation related to project expenditures, and would keep financial records in accordance with
sound accounting practices.



Page 8
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. A project-specific Management Information
System (MIS) will be designed by a specialist to serve as the key project monitoring tool. The PIU
would be responsible for monitoring progress against specific performance and impact monitoring
indicators. Indicators will include detailed progress benchmarks consistent with those spelled out in
section A.1 above, and covering physical works, goods and services, institutional arrangements,
procurement and disbursement, financial management, community involvement, poverty impact, and
sustainability. The community CH Committees will furnish the PIU with quarterly beneficiary reports
for review, summarizing implementation progress and utilization of project funds. An independent
technical audit of works, a financial audit, and beneficiary assessments will be conducted after the first
year of activities and in subsequent years.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Assistance through an ongoing or proposed Bank investnment project. This option was
considered carefully and, in fact, it may be possible to consider limited assistance for local
infrastructure improvements that also might benefit a cultural heritage preservation site (i.e. southern
Georgia, which is the focus of the proposed Social Investment Fund (SIF) pilot project; a mountain
access road to one of the pilot CH sites, Shatili, could be improved with financing from the same SIF
project; the proposed Tbilisi Water and Wastewater project could provide assistance in helping to
resolve the underground water problem in historic Old Town, Tbilisi). However, the approach of
providing assistance through another operation was rejected because it was felt, particularly by
Government, that the other investment activities had very different objectives and, thus, the quest for an
overarching cultural heritage action program, with concomitant local management and delivery capacity,
would not be served. Moreover, it was felt that the transition from the past state-centered cultural
heritage protection cum tourism mode to one involving a strong private sector dimension would require
a program of testing and innovation that would be difficult to pursue under a more traditional Bank
investment operation.
Research/Development approach. This approach was rejected for two reasons: (a) it does not
lend itself to local capacity development and utilization; (b) it lacks the operational flexibility in design
and implementation that is essential for attempts to protect cultural heritage and revive tourism in a
challenging environment of economic transition.
The adaptable lending approach (LIL). The approach is proposed here because it offers: (a) a
flexible opportunity to test different approaches to cultural heritage preservation and tourism revival,
particularly approaches that try to emphasize demand-driven, community-based innovations; (b) the
opportunity for small-scale innovation and experimentation which is essential in a transition economy
that is moving from state-centered management to more collaborative private-public patterns; (c) better
client-responsiveness, in that it enables the Bank to meet an urgent Government request. It
simultaneously serves as an effective catalyst in helping to develop stronger support networks with other
interested partners and donors who may have specialized expertise in the cultural heritage or tourism
field (i.e. UNESCO, Soros Foundation, Getty Trust, Aga Khan Trust for Culture, International Hotels
Association), but who cannot contribute significant investment financing.



Page 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project          Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Institutional development           Cultural Heritage - IDF      HS               S
Community participation and capacity-  Social Investment Fund  Recently
building at local levels           (pilot)                    approved
Environmental protection and coastal   Municipal Infrastructure   S              S
zone management                     Rehabilitation Project
(MIRP) with GEF Black
Sea program
Other development agencies
UNESCO & ICOMOS                     World Heritage Sites
program
Council of Europe                   Technical Assistance to
CHI IDF
Conservazione beni culturali, Italy  Fresco analysis in
Italian Government                  Church of St. Nicholas,
Kintsvisi
Georgian Arts and Culture Center    Church and fresco
renovation, Church of
St. Nicholas
World Monuments Fund (WIvF)         Monuments Watch List,
Old Town Tbilisi
Government of Denmark               Cultural Heritage
I Strategy, Tbilisi
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learned from the Bank's experience in transition economies and Georgia in particular
with its strong ethnic diversity suggest the importance of (a) modest, community-based, demand-driven
investments that address priority public needs; (b) thorough social assessments to ascertain stakeholders'
interests and preferences; (c) flexible but comprehensive institutional arrangements; (d) programs that
support social cohesion as an essential ingredient for nation building and sustainable economic
development; and (e) well qualified NGOs to assist with public awareness-raising and community
mobilization. Specific lessons learned from the IDF supported Cultural Heritage Initiative include: the
importance of stronger inter-governmental collaboration for effectively planning a CH program, and the



Page 1o
desirability of updated legislation at national and local levels to encourage and enable cultural heritage
learning and implementation.
The Cultural Heritage Project has been designed to reflect these lessons and to adapt successful
methods from other projects, such as community-driven development in the Social Investment Fund and
the Cultural Heritage IDF. The project design reflects the above lessons in the following ways: (a)
Eligibilily criteria for accessing CH funds from the Emergency Rehabilitation Fund have been
formulated in a manner to reward community participation and carry out priority repairs; (b) Georgian
social scientists are being to conduct participatory social assessments in the four priority pilot sites;
(c) Emphasis will be given to institutional development of the community CH committees for
participation at the local level; (d) Support will be provided for NGOs and the media working in cultural
heritage to promote public awareness and information dissemination; (e) Technical assistance will be
provided to strengthen the PIU and other cultural institutions and to improve institutional coordination,
information-sharing, and monitoring and evaluation; and (f) The newly established legal policy
framework for cultural heritage preservation will be tested.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
President Schevardnadze and senior policy-makers have repeatedly emphasized the importance
of preserving Georgia's cultural heritage as an integral part of the economic development program and
an essential tool for nation-building. Since so many Georgian citizens strongly identify with the nation's
cultural heritage, its importance for national identity is felt to be particularly critical during the difficult,
and often destabilizing, period of economic and social transition. V'isible investment projects that
rehabilitate and restore the richness and diversity of Georgia's art, music, architecture, and history are
likely to provide communities with opportunities for stronger socierl cohesion, improved capacity and
skills, and employment.
Significant progress has already been made under the Cultural Heritage Initiative, supported by
a $430,000 IDF grant approved in 1996, in the establishment of the institutional framework needed as a
basis for managing cultural heritage programs. Shortly after Georgia achieved independence in 1989,
the President established a special national "Save the Georgian Culture Committee." This was meant to
signify the importance attached to the preservation of Georgian traditions and culture as a vital element
for social cohesion and independence. On December 27, 1996, the Decree legalizing the Cultural
Heritage Initiative Board and the CHEC was signed by the President. Georgia enlisted the support of the
Council of Europe to assist in drafting laws and regulations for cultural heritage preservation. The laws
will shortly be submitted to the Georgian Parliament for approval. Due to a recent well-received
presentation by the CHEC, the World Monuments Fund (WMF) has now placed Old Tbilisi on its
"Watch List" of priority historical sites for preservation and is prepared to assist with funding for
specialized technical assistance. Under the IDF, the Cultural Heritage Initiative Executive Committee
and Council of Advisors selected seven CH pilot sites in accordance with defined criteria. Members of
the CHEC have visited each site and identified local counterparts to act as promoters and CH
representatives. There has also been progress in efforts at fund-raising, a computerized database with
detailed identifications (e.g. passports) of historic structures at each site, a public information campaign,
and a program to catalyze community participation. The government has also established contacts with
UNESCO and ICOMOS for guidance in the Cultural Heritage Initiative.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
In recently emphasizing (a) the importance of investment in culture as an essential ingredient in
economic development and (b) its willingness to work with other agencies to help improve assistance
efforts in this area, the Bank is establishing itself as a stronger partner in cultural heritage preservation.



Page 1 1
Although other organizations -- i.e. UNESCO, World Monuments Fund, Council of Europe, Getty Trust,
among them -- have cultivated more technical expertise in this area, their assistance in developing
countries and transitional countries is limited almost exclusively to technical assistance. Very little
financing is provided for investments to protect or restore cultural heritage sites and ancillary
development. Such investments are urgently needed, particularly in transition economies where serious
CH deterioration has set in, and where delays in preservation will increase future restoration costs. The
Bank has an opportunity to fill this gap by using its wider development experience and influence to
catalyze more effective collaborative networks in support of cultural heritage preservation strategies and
programs. The LIL offers flexibility and rapid response capability to test different approaches to
cultural restoration and tourism revival. The opportunity will better inform future program investments.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
For the purposes of this project, cultural heritage includes both the material aspects of culture
(e.g. sites, buildings, landscapes, objects of particular historical, architectural, aesthetic or cultural
significance) as well as non-material aspects such as values, beliefs, social practices and symbolic forns
of expression (e.g. language, art, music, dance, oral traditions, literature and poetry).
In relation to the main project objectives, the project's activities are expected to generate the
following benefits: (a) concrete experience emerging from tests with public/private support models in
CH restoration and related tourism planning that will provide a strong foundation for future revival of
the once flourishing tourism industry in Georgia; (b) experimentation with different fee structures for
visits to historic churches, monuments, and ancient city areas that will establish more realistic
frameworks for future financial sustainability; (c) stronger community involvement and support for the
idea of cultural heritage preservation as an important "asset" for future economic development; (d)
improved institutional capacity to formulate and implement cultural heritage programs, as well tourism
development; (e) enhancement of Georgia's distinctive CH patrimony through interaction with
international agencies that support this area of activity; and (f) lessons from methodological research
concerning economic analysis at one of the pilot sites.
2. Financial:
Because of the nature of the LIL, including its size and emphasis on testing and innovation, the
monetary and non-monetary benefits have not been analyzed in the comprehensive way normally
associated with more traditional Bank investment projects. Since the LIL is effectively a pilot, the
project will test a variety of approaches for providing financial support to target beneficiaries and
experimenting with potentially profitable income-generating activities such as bed and breakfast
facilities in cultural heritage/tourism sites. Preliminary socio-economic survey data indicate that many
people living in or near these sites are very poor and have difficulty sustaining themselves through the
economic transition period. Hence, they will not be expected to repay in financial terms. Nonetheless,
efforts at partial cost recovery will be tested through entrance fees and community contributions in labor
and in-kind.
a Fiscal impact: The project's fiscal impact is potentially significant because its main
objective is to invest in the restoration of valuable cultural assets that have the potential to help revive
the collapsed tourism industry -- which used to be a major revenue-earner for Georgia's economy. With
respect to project-specific benefits, the counterpart contribution from the central govemment budget is
estimated at US$0.48 million or about 10 percent of the total project cost. The GoG's share of total costs
would not exceed US$0.16 million in any given year. Assurances with respect to financial contributions



Page 12
of the government, mainly through counterpart funds from the national budget but also through possible
revenues from user fees and local communities at CH sites, have been agreed during appraisal and will
be confirmed with Ministry of Finance during negotiations.
3. Technical:
LIL pilot site renovation work will involve technical feasibility studies in engineering, as well as
environmental and social analysis. Recommendations will be reviewed by the Bank, including cost
estimates, engineering data to estimate inputs, outputs, and allowances for physical and price
contingencies. A feasibility study of groundwater issues in Old Town, Tbilisi has been commissioned
with Dutch and Georgian engineers, through financing from the N'etherlands Trust Fund. This will be
peer reviewed in the Bank. The LIL will also test innovative technologies such as state-of-the-art fresco
preservation and rare manuscript restoration, among others.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agency: The primary executing agency for the project will be the existing Cultural
Heritage Initiative Executive Committee, renamed as the Project Implementation Unit (PIU). Details of
the executing agency and project management are described earlier in Project Description Summary,
Institutional and Implementation arrangements, pp. 6-7.
5. Social:
Social surveys have been undertaken in all four pilot sites by the CHI team of social scientists.
Broader social assessments are currently being designed, with assistance from the Bank, and will also be
carried out at each pilot site, beginning with Old Town, Tbilisi and Signaghi. The preliminary social
survey in the Zemo Kala (lower quarter) area of Old Town, Tbilisi, indicates that the majority of the
residential community is poor (an average household income of 30 Lari per month, with 30% of
families earning less than 20 Lari monthly). The survey also included extensive data collection and
interviewing of all 20 households (41 individuals) currently residing in the historic caravansary on Irakle
Street, which is proposed as an investment subject to findings from the underground water study. Due to
substandard living conditions (e.g. single room apartments with no plumbing, running water, or
kitchens), all households are eager to move to improved housing, as long as they can remain in the Old
Town. The findings from this preliminary work will be expanded into a more participatory social
assessment, and if voluntary relocation is necessary, a full Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan in
collaboration with the affected people and the Tbilisi municipality, will be developed per Bank
guidelines. This is a condition of disbursement for the historic caravansary. Special attention will be paid
to gender-specific and environmental issues.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category    []A   [X] B   []C
The proposed project has been classified as a B (see Annex 11 Environmental Data Sheet). The
project is expected to have an overall positive environmental impact through site management and
conservation planning, emergency repairs at priority CH sites, landscape improvements, installation of
potable water and sewage systems, and neighborhood funds to address water drainage problems of
historic dwellings in Old Town and Signaghi. To help address the underground water problem in Old
Town, Tbilisi, trust funds are financing the installation of a underground monitoring system to assess
areas of risk and safety, which will guide investments. In addition, trust funds will also support a
comprehensive feasibility study to identify cost-effective options to address the systemic rehabilitation
of Old Town's underground water system. In the two ecologically sensitive sites of Shatili mountain
village and Uplistsikhe cave city, site management plans will include environmental analyses that



Page 13
encompass biodiversity protection and mitigation plans for tourist impacts.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Primary stakeholders will continue to be involved in a participatory approach to identifying,
designing and implementing pilot investments. They include: local residents at pilot sites, including
residents of the Irakle Street caravansary in Old Town, Tbilisi, local government, potential beneficiary
organizations of the Emergency Rehabilitation Fund, tourists (local and foreign), local vendors, and
private investors. Social scientists in the PIU are currently working with local community CH
committees in the first two pilot sites, Old Town and Signaghi, to increase their involvement in activities
and ensure maximum community benefits.
b.     Other key stakeholders: Government of Georgia, Cultural Heritage Executive Committee (PIU)
and Board of Trustees, Ministry of Culture, intermediary NGOs, academic institutions, technical experts
and partners/donors (foreign and local).
Preparation   Implementation        Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups            COL            COL                   COL
Intermediary NGOs                          IS, CON        IS, CON              IS, CON
Academic Institutions                      IS, CON        IS, CON              IS, CON
Local government                           COL            COL                  COL
Other donors                               CON           CON                   IS, CON
Note: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of this project depends to a large extent on the realization of the following
fundamental underlying assumption: the once flourishing tourism business in Georgia, founded on the
country's unique historical setting in the Caucasus and its rich ethnic diversity and culture, can begin to
be revived and, over time, can become largely self-sustaining under new private-public partnerships
instead of the old state-centered approach. A related assumption is that a re-invigorated cultural heritage
program will help restore national pride and cohesion during a difficult economic transition and thus
nurture public support for reforms. The risks involved are formidable, as noted below, and relate to
national and local level inexperience with private sector support, project management, community
engagement/participation, and lack of sufficient financing at the national and local levels. The innovative
nature of this project, and its integrated monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, permit the kind of
testing and experimentation that are so essential in the search for approaches to mitigate these risks and
facilitate achievement of the long-term objective. For example, a closely monitored participatory
process, through social assessments, will help to engage local communities in priority setting, and help
ensure ownership and participation by community stakeholders. It is expected that this demand-driven,
participation dimension, combined with the encouragement of local and private entrepreneurs (the latter
particularly in the eastern, wine growing region, which also contains important culturally distinctive
sites) will provide, in time, a more sustainable financial support model than the in the past. Options for
financial sustainability will also be explored -- fees for visitors to renovated historic structures and
museums; visitors' exit tax; entrance charges for music and arts festivals; and incentives for
philanthropy. The new law on the support of cultural heritage, which is expected to be passed shortly by
the Parliament, will be tested to determine its effectiveness in helping to mobilize private (foreign and



Page 14
local ) financial support for regional tourism development activities. All of these activities, which
impinge on sustainability, would be evaluated closely by the PIU's monitoring and evaluation team to
determine their cost effectiveness and social viability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating     Risk Minimization Measure
1. Government creates appropriate incentives      M
for private and public investment in CH areas.
2. Political stability is maintained.             M
3. Some decision-making powers are devolved       M
to municipal and community levels for cultural
heritage management.
4. Government remains committed to                N
CH/tourism development and environmental
protection.
5. Sustained financing for operation and          S          CH PIU will encourage
maintenance of restored sites.                               community contribution and
operation and maintenance
plans.
6. Related, new investments in tourist            H          Active awareness and fund-
infrastructure.                                              raising program as part of CH
project.
6. Active support and involvement of              M          Social assessments at 4 pilot
stakeholders in community committees and                     sites underway. Strong focus on
heritage tourism development process.                        capacity building of community-
level CH committees and
development of partnerships
with government, private sector,
NGOs.
7. Counterpart funding secured in MoF's           N          Initial counterpart contribution
budget for all project fiscal years.                         as condition of effectiveness.
Thereafter, PIU will confirm
with MoF annual financial
requirement.
8. Adequate coordination of technical aspects     M         Coordination experienced
of preservation with international experts.                 through the IDF will help
mitigate risks. Bank will take
more active coordination role
with foreign technical
assistance.
9. Ability of municipality to identify and        M          Participatory social assessment.
subsidize improved housing in Old Town for                   Pre-identification of potential
caravansary dwellers to relocate, and                        housing alternatives before
collaboration between parties.                               development of full resettlement
and rehabilitation plan with
community participation.



Page 15
Overall Risk Rating                                M          Learning and adaptation, M&E,
and strong Government
commitment to project
objectives will minimize risks.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Social
1. The development of an Integrated Conservation Master Plan for Old Town may entail
protected historic area zoning, which could restrict other commercial development plans. However,
there is little private sector finance currently available. A social assessment with stakeholder
participation will be integral to the process of developing such a Conservation Master Plan, and should
help identify competing interests.
2. Historic renovation of Old Town Tbilisi will entail community and municipal government
participation in the design and implementation of projects. The process of participation and consensus-
building will require time and patience, and could delay physical works. If relocation is required of 20
households living in the unimproved historic caravansary (Irakle Street), the municipality will need to
first identify affordable, alternative housing and, in collaboration with the PIU and affected families,
develop a full resettlement and rehabilitation plan consistent with Bank and GoG policies.
3. Adequate protection against vandalism at historic renovated sites will be required.
Ecological
1. A serious underground water problem in Old Town, Tbilisi has been confirmed by Dutch
technical specialists during Appraisal. Trust funds are financing both installation of an underground
monitoring system and a feasibility study to identify least cost options for rehabilitating the system.
Large, structural investments will only be made in Old Town if the monitoring study identifies areas of
safety from underground water damage. Otherwise, the groundwater problem will need to be solved,
possibly through the Bank-financed Tbilisi Water and Wastewater project (currently under preparation),
before major investments can proceed.
Governance
1. Inter-governmental coordination and clear delineation of roles and responsibilities will be
essential for effective implementation.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition:
a. Counterpart funding for the first year of the project has been deposited in a bank account for
US$100,000 by target effectiveness date -- April 1, 1998.
b. Completion and adoption of the Project Implementation Manual in a manner
satisfactory to the Association. Target effectiveness date: April 1, 1998.



Page 16
2. Disbursement Conditions:
Financing for the renovation of the Irakle Street historic caravansary in Old Town Tbilisi
($500,000 has been allocated for this purpose) will be subject to the following disbursement conditions:
(a) Confirmation that underground water is not an impediment to restoration (water monitoring tests are
about to be initiated and will be completed in three months); (b) Completion of a fully satisfactory
resettlement and rehabilitation plan, consistent with Bank guidelines, and formulated in consultation
with the 20 affected families (about 40 people). If these conditions are not able to be met, the money
allocated for this purpose may be reallocated at Government request for other project related activities.
3. Dated Covenant:
Four foreign technical specialists (i.e., project management advisor, procurement advisor,
financial expert, and Monitoring and Evaluation specialist) will be recruited by the PIU, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, on or before May 1, 1998.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[N/A ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[N/A] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Manual is being finalized, and as a condition of credit effectiveness,
will be completed and formally adopted by the PIU, in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Program Team Leader: Thomas Blinkhom
Sector Acting Director: J. Christopher Lovelace
Country Director: Judy O'Connor
January 29, 1998



page 17
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Georgia: Cultural Heritage Initiative
Narrative Summary            Key Performance               Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                  Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Economic growth          1. I Increase in the number    1.1.1 Government          1. Government creates
increased and               of related business starts     statistics/reports;      appropriate incentives for
diversified, public         in tourism by end of           project supervision      private and public
finance strengthened,       project.                       reports                  investment in CH areas.
and poverty reduced.     1.2 Increase in investments   1.2.1 Government          2. Political stability is
by local and foreign           statistics/reports;     maintained.
private sector                 project supervision    3. There will be new
representatives in            reports                  investments in related
cultural related tourism                               tourist infrastructure.
activities (e.g. B&Bs
and tours).
1.3 Increase in number of    1.3.1 Government
hotel rooms/beds               statistics/reports;
(including folk hotels)        project supervision
plus increase in              reports
occupancy rates by year
2002.
Project Development                                                                 (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
1. Sustainable             1.1 Increase in number of    1.1.1 CH PIU reports,       1. Government remains
management and              new and continuing             President's Cultural    committed to CH/tourism
promotion of Georgia's      site restorations, both       Committee reports,       development and
cultural heritage.          public and private            and Community CH         CH/environmental
funded, in operation by       Committee reports.      protection.
1999 and 2001.
1.2 Increase in number of    1.2.1 Ministry of Tourism   2. Sites will be sufficiently
local and foreign             Statistics.             funded to ensure operation
tourists during 1999-         Monitoring reports.     and maintenance.
2002 period.
1.3 Increase in number of    1.3.1 Min. of Culture      3. There will be new
cultural heritage related     Reports, CH PIU,        investment in related
activities (e.g. music        Community CH            tourist infrastructure.
competition, arts             Committee reports.
festivals, public
awareness campaign)
by 2001.
1.4 Community-based CH       1.4.1 CH PIU, local
groups and programs           government,
continue operating            beneficiary
effectively through           assessment.
year 2001.



page 18
Narrative Summary           Key Performance              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
1.5 New institutional       1.5.1 NGO reports, CH
alliances formed and         PIU reports.
functioning. (e.g.
Gov't.-NGO
partnerships,
coordinating groups,
advocacy groups,
focusing on certain
target areas)
Outputs:                                                                          (Outputs to Objective)
1. Investment
A. Pilot Site Investments -                                                       1. Communities support
Selected activities in four                                                          programs.
cultural heritage pilot sites
are completed.                                                                    2. Counterpart funding will
be secured in GoG budget
1. Old Town Tbilisi        1.1.1 Old Town Tbilisi     Project monitoring reports.   for all project fiscal years.
restoration plan
1.1 Phase I of Old Town         completed and Phase I  Site inspections.          3. If necessary, current
rehabilitation plan          work started in                                     dwellers of historic
completed. Includes:         conformity with       Participatory Social          caravansary participate in
small historic home          historic and cultural    Assessment.                voluntary Resettlement
repairs, targeted facade     values by mid -1998.                                and Rehabilitation plan.
improvement,           1.1.2 Number of buildings
landscaping/park            fitted with improved                              4. Local communities create
improvement.                 gutters and drain                                  functional CH Committees
pipes.                                              and implement priorities.
1.1.3 Old Town area
maintenance
improved.
1.2. Phase II of Old Town    1.2.1 Detailed engineering    Project reports.
rehabilitation plan          and construction plans
completed. (e.g.             for Phase 11
Identified historic         restorations completed
buildings renovated)         by 1999.
1.2.2 Strong community      Social Assessments.
participation during
development and       Project monitoring reports.
implementation of
project investment
1.2.3 Affected families
participating in Phase
I and 11 of Old Town
program.



page 19
Narrative Summary            Key Performance              Monitoring and            Critical Assumptions
Indicators                 Evaluation
1.3 Resettlement and       1.3.1 Residents fully       Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Plan          participate in design    Rehabilitation Plan.
designed and                 of plan.
implemented.                                       Beneficiary assessment.
2. Signaghi
2.1 Restoration of selected    2.1.1 Rehabilitation of  Project reports.
historic structures and      selected culturally
promotion of cultural        historic structures    Site inspections.
and eco-tourism plan.        completed by 2000.
(e.g. Wedding Palace,   Beneficiary assessments.
Archeology Museum,
private and community
structures)
2.1.2 Drains, roofs, and
gutters repaired/
replaced and
improved by historic
home inhabitants -
completed by
December 1999.
3. Uplistsikhe
3.1. Uplistsikhe site      3.1.1 Community-based site   Project reports.
management plan and          management plan
modem interpretation         submitted and         Site inspections.
center completed.            approved by 1999.
3.1.2 Interpretation center    Social assessments.
constructed by end of
project.
4. Shatili
4.1 Shatili structural     4.1.1 Linkage with SIF       Tourism statistics.
investments in historic      project funding by
towers and                    1998.                 Project reports.
development of alpine   4.1.2 Shatili community-
tourism program              based site
completed.                   management plan
completed by 1999.
4.1.3 Development of
fortifications of
historic towers by
2000.
4.1.4 Rehabilitation and
retrofitting for folk
hotels by end of
project.



page 20
Narrative Summary           Key Performance            Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evalunation
5.1 Community-based site   5.1.1 CH community groups  Project repores.
management programs         and cooperators
in 2 pilot sites designed   operating programs at
and operational.            each pilot site by
2000.
5.1.2 Mobilization of
private sector
financing for tourism
development by 2000.
B. Emergency
Rehabilitation Fund
1.0 Three rounds of       1.0.1 First selection of   Save Georgia's Culture
emergency project            project proposals     committee
applications and             completed by June     evaluation/selection
selections completed.        1998.                 reports.
1.0.2 Annual project
selections completed    Quarterly reports by
per schedule.        beneficiary organizations
1.0.3 Timely               and CH committees.
implementation by
beneficiaries of     Independent audits.
approximately 3-5
projects per year.
1 .1 Archive collection and    1.1.1 Better accessibility,  Periodic review of
conservation improved.       organization and      environmental conditions
storage conditions.  and collections.
1.2 Urgent rehabilitation  1.2.1 Risks of deterioration    Periodic inspection of
activities completed for     averted; improved     activities.
proposed projects            condition, appearance,
evaluated and selected       function, and
by the Committee to          accessibility of
Save Georgia's Culture.      selected emergency
projects.
1.2.2 Improved
conservation of
cultural sites/ objects.
II. Technical Assistance
1. 1 Groundwater          1.1.1 Number and           Regular monitoring of
monitoring system           distribution of wells.   wells and periodic risk
installed in Old Town    1.1.2 Results indicating  analysis.
Tbilisi (trust fund         islands of safety (dry
financed)                   areas) by May 1998.
1.2 Groundwater feasibility  1.2.1 Least cost alternatives   Independent peer review of
study completed for   for rehabilitation of ground    groundwater feasibility
Old Town Tbilisi. (trust water system identified by    study.
fund financed)        June 1998.                              .



page 21
Narrative Summary           Key Performance             Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
2.1 Cultural Heritage PIU    2.1.1 Management and     Project training logs.
and local municipalities    English language
strengthened.               training attained by
CHI PIU executive by
end of year 1.
2.1.2 Management training   Participant evaluations.
for PIU Technical
Director.            Project reports.
2.1.3 Foreign specialists
train andbuild
technical capacity in
PIU, 1998-2000.
2.1.4 Training for Georgian
specialists on
economic evaluation
methods for one pilot
site.
2.1.5 Training and study
tours attained by local
officials and CH PIU
by mid-1999.
2.1.6 Increase in number of  Beneficiary assessments.
community-
government
partnerships formed.
2.1.7 Community CH         Social assessments.
committees in four
pilot sites trained.
2.1.8 CH committee
meetings held
quarterly with 50%
attendance.
3.1 Public awareness      3.1.1 Public awareness      Project reports.
campaign operational        strategy developed by
and effective.              1998.                 Collection of media
3.1.2 Workshops and        outputs.
seminars completed,
media and other       Public feedback
activities performed    evaluations.
on timely schedule.
4.1 Integrated            4.1.1 Integrated plan       Process documentation at
Conservation Master         achieved with full    public meetings.
Plan completed.             public consultation.    Consultations with primary
and secondary stakeholders
and experts.



page 22
Narrative Summary           Key Performance             Monitoriing and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
5.1 Cost recovery test    5.1.1 Fee collection method   Project reports.
mechanism established       designed and tested at
and operational at pilot    pilot sites by end    Site visitor and tourism
sites.                      project..             statistics.
5.1.2 Revenues increase at
pilot sites.
6.1 Full monitoring and   6.1.1 M&E capacity          Bank reviews.
evaluation program          transferred to PIU by
implemented.                2000.                 Project reports.
6.1.2 Project MIS system
fully developed and    Annual beneficiary
data/reports utilized    assessments.
by project managers    Consultant audits.
and bank team.
6.1.3 Annual technical and   Country team reviews.
financial audits
completed.           590 supervision reports.
6.1.4 Bank supervision 2-3
times annually.      Aide memoires.
Project Components/Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each                              (Components to Outputs)
components:               component)
1. Investment             US$3.57 million             I. Progess reports.       1. Active involvement of key
stakeholders in priority site
1.1 Old Town Tbilisi                                 2. Disbursement reports.    selection, investment strategy,
rehabilitation                                                              design and implementation.
Phase I (e.g. targeted
facade improvements;
park landscaping; small
neighborhood
improvements).
1.2 Old Town Tbilisi
rehabilitation Phase 2
(e.g. Sharteli St. #15
renovation; roof repair
on Djvaris Mama
Church; Pirosmani
Museum)
1.3 Signaghi Restoration
(e.g. Tourist Info.
Center and handicraft
studio established;
restoration of historic
buildings and
identified residences;
small neighborhood
improvements)



page 23
Narrative Summary          Key Performance            Monitoring and          Critical Assumptions
Indicators               Evaluation
1.4 Uplistsikhe Tourism
site management plan
& interpretation center.
1.5 Shatili repair and
renovation of historic
towers and community-
based tourism
development.
1.6 Emergency
Rehabilitation Fund
2. Technical Assistance   US$1.40 million
2.1 Groundwater
monitoring and
feasibility study.
2.2 CH PIU strengthened
for project
management,
supervision and M&E.
2.3 Trainers and study tour
leaders hired and their
programs designed and
implemented.
2.4 Integrated Conservation
Master Plan.
2.5 Cost recovery
mechanism established
at pilot sites.
2.5 Public Awareness
program developed and
implemented.
2.6 Monitoring and
evaluation program
Total                    US$4.9 7 million



page 24
Annex 2
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$3.57 million
Investment. This project component will support the Georgian Government's ongoing Cultural
Heritage Initiative (CHI) and would provide investment funding for rehabilitation/restoration at
four cultural heritage pilot sites. The first investment subcomponent will be an Emergency
Rehabilitation Fund which, based on specific eligibility criteria, can be accessed by organizations
and communities for emergency repairs at cultural sites and/or for urgent rehabilitation of cultural
artifacts. The second investment subcomponent covering four cultural heritage pilot sites will
support high priority historic structures, facade and landscape improvements, public museum
renovations, historic home small repairs, tourist information and interpretation centers, bed and
breakfast and/or folk hotels, and other community-based improvement activities (civil works,
goods, and services). The investment component will encourage active community participation
through Community CH committees at the proposed pilot sites.
(a) Emergency Rehabilitation Fund (subcomponent) US$1.03 million. This
subcomponent will provide financing for (i) urgent repairs needed to prevent further damage to
priority CH sites; and (ii) urgent rehabilitation of cultural artifacts or support for cultural
activities that are in serious jeopardy. The Fund will be competitive, driven by the priorities and
interests of applicants, and designed to encourage communities and institutions to apply for
grants of up to $75,000. Criteria for selection and evaluation of worthy microproject proposals
have been developed. The President's Save the Georgian Culture Committee, in collaboration
with the CH PIU, will serve as the Evaluation committee for this Fund (see attachment for
description of Fund and selection criteria). The PIU will be responsible for providing technical
assistance, and for supervising, monitoring, and evaluating microproject implementation.
Some preliminary sites and activities in need of urgent attention have already been
identified. Such sites and activities could potentially qualify for assistance under this Fund. As
an example, these include: (i) The Kintsvisi frescos at St. Nicholas Church; (ii) important
museums or archives in disrepair; (iii) the David Garedji monastery, a unique eco-tourism site
with a water harvesting system and cave drawings; and (iv) preservation of historic religious
manuscripts.
(i) The St. Nicholas Church in Kintsvisi is one of the prel[iminary sites identified as
suitable for emergency preservation. This famous monastery dates back to the period of
Queen Tamar (12th century) and is rich in frescos of the same period. The most well-
known fresco is the Kintsvisi blue angel, which has suffered damage from water and
algae growth. Preliminary studies have been conducted in Kintsvisi by specialists funded
under the Italian Trust Fund. Financing would be provided for emergency restoration,
roof and drainage repair to the structure, and cleaning and rehabilitation of the damaged
frescos, as determined by art preservation experts.



page 25
(ii) The David Garedji monastery was built by monks into a hillside during the 10th
century in a vast semi-arid region east of Tbilisi. The monks also fashioned a unique
water harvesting system which supported orchards and fields. The project could provide
financing for repairs to the monastery for the purpose of restoring the site, preserving
frescos, and preparing a conservation area plan for low-impact ecological and cultural
tourism.
iii) Georgia's Institute of Manuscripts houses rare and unique religious manuscripts,
some of which date back to the I 0th century and earlier. The project would include
parchment restoration and binding repairs of such historic manuscripts and assistance
for controlled environmental settings and public display.
(b) Pilot CH Sites (subcomponent) US$2.54 million. The project would finance four
pilot sites for preservation/restoration to serve as prototypes or learning tools for future cultural
heritage investments and private-public partnerships designed to help revive the once flourishing
tourist industry. These sites were selected by the Georgian Cultural Heritage Initiative after a year
of investigations and consultations with local communities. Old Town, Tbilisi, and the village of
Signaghi in Georgia's eastern wine-growing region will be the first two sites for investments.
These will be followed by the ancient cave city of Uplistsikhe and the mountain village of Shatili
in the northern Caucasus. More detailed descriptions of these sites follow:
(i) Old Town, Tbilisi - At this pilot site, multiple activities are planned, including:
structural repairs, renovation, and retro-fitting of historic dwellings and buildings,
including an historic caravansary, renovation of museums and collections, landscape and
park improvements, facade improvements, and historic home small repairs to drains and
gutters. Due to a serious underground water problem in the Old Town, investments will
need to be phased and will depend on both i) identification of "islands of safety" where
the underground flooding is less serious and/or ii) systemic rehabilitation of the
underground water system in the Old Town. A groundwater monitoring system is being
established at present, and a feasibility study which identifies cost effective solutions will
be undertaken in the near future with funding from the Netherlands Trust Fund. If the
underground water study indicates that the proposed renovation of the Irakli Street
historic caravansary can proceed forward during Phase II, a full Resettlement and
Rehabilitation Plan will be required in advance, in compliance with Bank guidelines (this
will be a condition of disbursement for the Irakle Street site). This caravansary is one of
Old Town's most valuable historic and cultural assets, but is currently in a state of
serious disrepair for the twenty families it currently houses.
(ii) Signaghi, eastern Georgia - Signaghi is a provincial fortress town in the eastern
Caucasus mountains. This scenic village of 3000 residents is situated about 115 km east
of Tbilisi and is connected to the capital and eastern Georgia with good asphalt roads.
The project will finance priority investments, as determined by the community, the
municipal government, and the PIU. The support program will combine renovation of
historic buildings with tourism development in the Kakhetian wine country. In addition
to restorations of several historic public buildings and the archeology/ethnology museum,
the project will finance restoration of several identified privately owned dwellings, retro-
fitting of a bed and breakfast hotel, small repairs of historic houses; and a regional
tourist information center with a handicraft studio. Efforts will be made to help organize



page 26
textile and other handicraft artisans into a cooperative to help revive this once-robust
industry.
(iii) Uplistsikhe - This ancient cave city dating from the Hellenistic Period is located
l2km from Gori, the birthplace of Stalin, and is an easy day trip (about 2 hours) from
Tbilisi. Uplistsikhe is on the left bank of the Mtkvari river, carved into rock with an
architectural style influenced by the Persians and Romans. An asphalt road and a bridge
over the river were built in the Soviet era, specifically for access to Uplistsikhe because it
was a popular tourist attraction. However, since independence, tourism has declined
significantly. Uplistsikhe also functions as a museum preserve under the main Board for
Monuments Protection. This site has been identified by the Government as an historic
Georgian monument. The project would support the development of a site management
plan and a modem visitor's information and interpretation center. The center would
include a geological, archeological, historic, cultural, and environmental interpretation
display of the site, and would offer trained guides and walking itineraries. A book store
with informational materials and brochures, and a small restaurant would serve visitors
and raise revenues.
(iv) Shatili - This small, historic village is located in the northern Caucasus mountains,
near the Chechan border. The site is inaccessible in winter, except by helicopter, and is
difficult to access in spring and summer due to poor road conditions. Shatili is regarded
as a premier alpine and ecological tourism site. The village is characterized by unique
fortified towers which are constructed of local slate and which once served as
dwellings. Many of the towers are deteriorating and at risk of collapse. The Shatili
community is indigenous, and practices traditional farming and herding. The economy is
based largely on barter exchange. The project would invest in urgent structural repairs of
historic towers, gutters and roofs, renovation of towers for conversion into a folk hotels,
and the installation of a potable water and sewage system to serve the community and
visitors.
Project Component 2 - US$1.40 million
Technical Assistance: Financing would be provided to strengthen capacity at both national and
local levels to improve CH management, and to support a monitoring and evaluation program for
the LIL. Technical assistance activities will include:
(a) PIU Support and Institution-Building. Strengthening and support to PIU for project
management, financial management, procurement, and disbursement will be a top priority.
Several international specialists, such as a procurement advisor and project management advisor,
will be recruited for periodic secundment to the PIU. In addition, the Ministry of Culture and
other heritage institutions, such as the Institute of Manuscripts or Museum of Fine Arts, will also
have access to technical assistance through participation in the Ernergency Rehabilitation Fund.
(b) Training and Study Tours. Training will be provided by foreign specialists
(international and regional), and by Georgian counterparts knowledgeable in Bank procedures
and project management. The PIU, community groups, municipal governments, the Ministry of
Culture, and other heritage institutions will benefit from training as well. Study tours for key PIU
and Ministry of Culture staff will include visits to towns in eastern or western Europe that serve
as prototypes for cultural heritage protection and tourism. Research training will also be provided



page 27
to Georgian economic specialists in economic evaluation methodologies for a specific CH pilot
site, possibly Signaghi.
(c) Public Awareness Program. This program would build upon the ongoing public
awareness work of the CHI and will help finance a variety of public information/dissemination
activities, as well as special national events in support of cultural heritage. The program will
develop a public awareness strategy for cultural heritage, and will fund tangible and visible
outputs. Activities would be managed by the CH PIU, in collaboration with local non-
governmental organizations and the media, and may include, among other activities: CH seminars
for journalists (print and broadcast); a quarterly or monthly newsletter on CH activities; regular
press conferences on the work of the CH initiative; development of a public information program
on cultural heritage for the Georgia education system; CH poster competition for Georgian
schools; national film and/or video competition on key CH themes; traditional music recitals for
school children with special incentives for children from poor families; recorded histories (taped
and produced for future public dissemination) involving elderly Georgians narrating their
recollections of the impact of Georgian culture on their lives. All of these activities would be
monitored and evaluated carefully to assess audience impact, cost and effectiveness with a view
to improving future strategies and programs.
(d) Integrated Conservation Master Plan, Old Town. The Master Plan will address all
aspects of heritage and conservation planning, and will include economic, social, marketing, and
environmental analyses. A foreign specialist will work closely with the PIU, Tbilisi city
architects, and other local experts to gather existing information, gather new data, and develop a
comprehensive plan which can be used as a blueprint for the future of the historic Old Town.
Public consultation and approval will be an integral part of the process.
(e) Monitoring and Evaluation Program (M&E). Monitoring and evaluation of all
project activities would be supported under this program subcomponent. A specialist will develop
a project-specific Management Information System (MIS) which will be the major tool for
monitoring impacts and performance. Impact indicators and other performance measures have
been developed and will be outlined in the Project Implementation Manual. They have been
designed to allow sufficient time for testing, learning and adjustment in order to successfully
achieve project goals. Other elements of the M&E program will include: annual technical audits,
financial audits, periodic beneficiary assessments, and Bank supervision, including an
implementation performance review (IPR) every 18 months. The project would finance
establishment of a new monitoring and evaluation capacity in the CH PIU. The Community CH
Committees, as beneficiaries, would be required to provide quarterly project reports to the PIU to
facilitate this process. Additionally, a specialized consultant would be commissioned to
independently monitor the progress of the project and report findings to the Bank and PIU every
year.



page 28
Attachment to Annex 2
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Emergency Rehabilitation Fulnd
Objective: The Fund would be used to carry out priority emergency cultural heritage
conservation and preservation works.
Proposed Amount: US$1 million over 3 years. The Fund would be disbursed in annual
tranches, with the first year not to exceed US$200,000; and the second and third years averaging
US$400,000 each.
Design: A demand-driven, competitive mechanism which will respond to proposals from
organizations (public and private) and award grants to the most worthy projects.
Institutional Framework:
1. The Fund will be established by the President's office with a special account. The
Cultural Heritage PIU will collaborate closely with the Fund, and will be responsible
for technical assistance, supervision, and monitoring of the Fund.
2. Evaluation and selection of eligible project proposals will be undertaken by the Save
the Georgian Culture Committee, established by the F'resident in 1990. This
evaluation committee will review and select project proposals against agreed criteria
as elaborated below.
Mechanism: The Fund would be accessible on the basis of requests by Georgian institutions,
NGOs, and community groups. Application forms would be made widely available to all
interested institutions and groups nationwide, with equal access to all regions. The application
form would require detailed information on the proposed activity, including:
I. name of site or cultural heritage object
2. location
3. significance of the site or object
4. current condition of site or object
5. objectives of proposed project
6. description of proposed project
7. estimated cost of the activity and costs over time
8. specific works to be funded
9. management responsibility for implementation (including designation of local site supervisor)
10. technical justification for proposed works
11. detailed work plan
12. project budget
13. evidence of community support and contribution to project



page 29
Timeframe: The submission deadline for the first year's competition for proposals will be set at
three months after the Cultural Heritage Project becomes effective/operational.
Proposed Selection Criteria:
1. Urgency. The activity must be an emergency or of urgent nature such that without the
investment, loss of the cultural asset would be probable and imminent.
2. Cultural and historical importance. The activity must be of high and widely-recognized
cultural/historic value.
3. Cost Limit. The cost of the activity will have no minimum limit and a maximum limit of
US$75,000. A review of the criteria for size and limitations of proposed activities will take place
after the first year.
4. Institutional Applications: Each institution will be limited to no more than 2 proposal
submissions per year.
5. Cost Effectiveness of proposed intervention. Each project activity should be justified as a
cost-effective investment in support of the protection of Georgia's cultural heritage.
6. Social Objectives: Each project activity should maximize social benefits to a wider
community (e.g. benefits to a maximum number of people, direct benefits to a poor and/or
vulnerable community).
7. Participation and Sustainability: Each project activity should consult with beneficiaries and
invite their involvement in at least two ways: (i) community or organizational contribution
(labor, in kind, funds) to project cost; and (ii) justification that beneficiaries place highest
priority on the proposed project activity and have a sustainability plan for Operation and
Maintenance (O & M). (Note: funds cannot be used for operational maintenance.)
8. Feasibility. Each project must be justified as technically sound and should be fully
implementable within 1-2 years (within life of project).
9. Visibility. Each activity should maximize public visibility.
10. Funding. No project activity can be funded in part (unless if for completion) and subject to
additional unsecured funding.



page 30
Annex 3
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                          Local            Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Investment                                                  2.12             0.64         2.76
Technical Assistance                                        0.42             0.77          1.19
TQtal                                                       2.54             1.41         3.95
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                   0.46              0.13         0.59
Price Contingencies                                      0.31              0.12         0.43
Total Project Cost                                          3.31             1.66         4.97



page 31
Annex 4
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Financial Summary
(in US$ million, base year 1998)
Implementation Period
l 1998   1999   2000   2001
Project Costs
Investment Costs      0.65    1.31   1.32   1.26
Recurrent Costs       0.03    0.13   0.13   0.14
Total                 0.68    1.44   1.45   1.40
Financing Sources
(% of total project costs)
IDA                    12%    26%    27%    25%
Govemnment            2%      2%      3%     3%
Total                  14%    28%    30%    28%
Main assumptions:
- The project becomes effective by April 1998.



page 32                                  Table 5A
Annex 5
Republic of Georgia
Cultural Heritage Project
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000))
Procurement Method
International  National
Competitive Competitive National Consulting   Total Inc.
Bidding    Bidding   Shopping  Services  Contingencies
A. Civil Works            539.7      613.3      2,109.3      -        3,262.3
(485.8)    (552.0)   (1,870.7)              (2,908.5)
B. Goods                   -          68.8       48.7       -          117.6
(62.0)    (43.8)                (105.8)
C. Technical Assistance     -          -          -       1,593.2     1,593.2
(1,478.7)    (1,478.7)
Total                   539.7       682.1     2,158.0   1,593.2      4,972.9
(485.8)    (614.0)   (1,914.5)  (1,478.7)    (4,492.9)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
Table 5A



page 33                                                 Table 5B p.1 of 2
Annex 5
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Procurement Schedule
Total      Procurement    Issuance of   Submission  Signing of  Completion
Packages                Cost ($'OOO)    Method        Invitation to Bid    of Bids     Contract   of Package
A. CIVIL WORKS
1. Tbilisi Old Town Phase I
Gutters & Drains                              86.30      N.S.            Apr-98          May-98        May-98       May-99
Facades (Irakli/Shardeni Sts.)               213.40     N.C.B.           Apr-98          Jun-98        Jun-98       Dec-99
Landscape Improvements                       138.00      N. S.           Apr-98          May-98       May-98        May-99
Sub Total:      437.70
2. Emergency Rehab. Work (Fund)
Package #1 (Year 1)                          50.20      N.S.            Jul-98          Aug-98        Sep-98       Dec-98
Package #2 (Year 1)                          50.20      N.S.            Jul-98          Aug-98        Sep-98       Feb-99
Package #3 (Year 1)                          50.20      N.S.            Jul-98          Aug-98        Sep-98       Feb-99
Package #4 (Year 2)                          63.40      N.S.            Jan-99          Feb-99        Mar-99       Jul-99
Package #5 (Year 2)                          63.40      N.S.            Jan-99          Feb-99        Mar-99       Jul-99
Package #6 (Year 2)                          63.40      N.S.            Jan-99          Feb-99        Mar-99       Aug-99
Package #7 (Year 2)                          63.40      N.S.            Jan-99          Feb-99        Mar-99       Aug-99
Package #8 (Year 2)                          63.40      N.S.            Jan-99          Feb-99        Mar-99       Aug-99
Package# 9 (Year 3)                          63.40      N.S.            Jan-00          Feb-00        Mar-00       Jul-00
Package #10 (Year 3)                         63.40      N.S.            Jan-00          Feb-00        Mar-00       Jul-00
Package #11 (Year 3)                         63.40      N.S.            Jan-00          Feb-00        Mar-00       Aug-00
Package #12 (Year 3)                         63.40      N.S.            Jan-00          Feb-00        Mar-00       Aug-00
Package #13 (Year 3)                         63.40      N.S.            Jan-00          Feb-00        Mar-00       Aug-00
Sub Total:      784.60
3.  Tbilisi Old Town Phase 11
Shateli Street                               111.30       N.S.           Jan-99          Feb-99        Mar-99       Mar-00
Pirosmani Museum                             160.90      N.C.B.          Jan-99          Feb-99        Mar-99       Mar-00
Poet's Museum                                 46.20       N.S.           Jan-00          Feb-00        Mar-00       Dec-00
Djvaris Mama Church                            4.50       N.S.           Jan-99          Feb-99        Mar-99       Jun-99
Irakli St. Caravansary                       539.70      I.C.B.          Jan-00          Mar-00        May-00       Jun-01
Sub Total:      862.60
4.  Signaghi
Wedding Palace & Museum                       98.90       N.S.           Apr-98          May-98        Jun-98       Jun-99
Barashteveli & Dodiani St.                   137.10       N.S.           Apr-98          May-98        Jun-98       Jun-99
Museum of Archeology & Ethnography            14.90       N.S.           May-98          Jun-98        Jul-98       Dec-98
Saradjashvili St.                            109.90       N.S.           Apr-98          May-98        Jun-98       Jun-99
Tourist Info. Center                         124.30      N.C.B.          Jun-98          Aug-98        Oct-98       Oct-99
Small Home Improvements (Fund)                82.70       N.S.           Apr-98          May-98        Jun-98       Dec-99
Sub Total:      567.80
5.  Shatili
Five Towers (fortification)                  113.90      N. S.           Jun-99          Jul-99        Aug-99       Aug-00
Gutters, Roads, Water & Sewage               131.10      N. S.           Jun-99          Jul-99        Aug-99       Aug-00
Folk Hotel Renovation                         89.00      N.S.            Mar-99          Apr. 99      May-99        Aug-00
Sub Total:      334.00
6.  Uplistsikhe
One Visitor Center                           275.60     N. C. B.         Jun-99          Aug-99        Oct-99       Jan-01
Total Cost:    3,262.30
Note: N.S. - National Shopping (US$1.95M);
N.C.B. - National Competitive Bidding (US$0.77M)
I.C.B. - International Competitive Bidding (US$0.54M)
CWAnnex5



page 34                                                      Table5B p2 of 2
Annex 5
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Procurement Schedule
iUSs'o0)
Total    Procurement  Issuance of   Submission    Signing of    Completion
Package              Cost ($000)   Method   Invitation to Bid   of Bids     Contract    of Package
B. GOODS
1.  Uplistsikhe
Visitor Center, Maps, Books, Signs etc.  68.80    N.C.B.       Jun-99        Aug-99        Oct-99       Oct-00
2.  Project Implementation Unit
Computer Equipment & Scanner            48.70     N.S.         Apr-98        May-98        Jun-98       Sep-98
C. CONSULTANT SERVICES (TA)
1.  Project Implementation Unit
Staff PIU                              228.30      LC
Consultants (Legal, social)            100.00      IC
328.20
2.  Local T.A. (over 3 Yrs)
M.I.S. Specialist                       33.33      CQ
Procurement Specialist                  33.33      CQ
Engineering Specialist                  33.33      CQ
100.00
3.  Foreign Consultants                    326.40    QCBS
4.  Training & Study Tours
Session 1                               31.20      Co             -
Session 2                               31.20      CO             -
Session 3                               31.20      CO             -
93.60
5. Public Awareness
Foreign Consultants                     25.00      CQ
Local Consultants                       25.00      IC
50.00
6.  Conservation Mgmt. Plan                 50.00      Co
7. Monitoring & Evaluation                 403.20      Co
8.  Emergency Rehabilitation Fund          241.70      CQ-
Total:   1,710.70
Note: C.Q. - Selection Based on Consultanfs Qualifications (US$1.14M);
Q.CB.S. - Quality and Cost Based Selection (US$0.33M);
N.S. - National Shopping (US$.05M);
N.C.B. - National Competitive Bidding (US$0.07M);
I.C. - Selection based on Individual Consultants (US$0.12M).
L.C. - Selection based on Least Cost (US$0.23M)
Fund for consultant services, small works, and small goods. Procurement
methods include C.Q., N.C.B., small works, and N.S., in accordance with thresholds.
GAnnex 5



page 35                                     Table 5C
Annex 5
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contracts Subject to
Expenditure           Contract Value          Procurement       Prior Review/Estimated
Categories             (Threshold)             Method           Total Value Subject
to Prior Review
1. WORKS                          <$150,000                N.S.          First Two Contracts
>$150,000               N.C.B.        First Two Contracts
>$300,000               I. C.B        First Contract
2. GOODS                           <$50,000                N.S.          First Contract
>$50,000               N.C.B.         First Contract
3. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            <$50,000        Individual Consultants All TORs; All contracts
<$100,000                CQ           for firms exceeding
>$200,000               QCBS          $100,000, and $50,000
__________________________  ______________________       LC          for  individual  consultahts
Table5C



page 36                                   Table 5D
Annex 5
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure            Amount                  Financing
Categories          (US$ Million)             Percentage
1. Civil Works                   2.56         80% of expenditure
2. Goods                         0.10         100% of foreign expenditure,
100% of local expenditure (ex
factory); 80% local expenditure
3. Consulting Services           1.40         100%/o of total expenditures
4. Unallocated                   0.44
Total:        4.49 *
*/ Numbers may not add up due to rounding
Table5D



page 37
Annex 6
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
$25,000 + $5,000'        $45,000
B. Project Schedule                                Planned               Actual
(At final PAD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       3.5 months             3 months
First Bank mission (identification)              10/01/1997            10/01/1997
Appraisal mission departure                      12/08/1997            12/08/1997
Negotiations                                     01/12/1998            01/27/1998
Project Approval by Vice President               01/30/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    04/01/1998
Prepared by: Cultural Heritage EC/PIU and Bank team
Preparation assistance: LIL team; Team Technologies, Middleburg, VA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Thomas Blinkhom                             Task Team Leader
Angela Demas                             Operations Assistant
Irakli Managadze                         Institutional Specialist
Betsy McGean                               Social Scientist
June 'faboroff                       Cultural Heritage Consultant
Richard James                            Financial Specialist
Ron Venezia                            Procurement Specialist
Friedrich Peloschek, Aly Abu-Akeel                      Counsel
Nicholay Chistyakov                        Disbursement Officer
Tamara Kanterman, Maria Rigaszova                    Team Assistants
$5000 from Social Compact resources.



page 38
Annex 7
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Manual
Draft
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Implementation Summary Report for the Cultural Fleritage Initiative IDF grant,
December 31, 1996.
2. Implementation Summary Report for the Cultural Heritage Initiative IDF grant, June
30, 1996.
C. Other
1. Report of Italian Consultants on Blue Angel frescos in St. Nicholas Church, Kintsvisi.
2. Report of Danish Consultant on planning parameters for restoration of historic quarter
of Tbilisi.
3. Report of Georgian Social Scientists on initial Community Participation assessment in
selected Cultural Heritage sites.
4. Detailed report on historical significance of Uplistsikhe. Kakha Khimshiashvili
(author).
5. Draft law on "Cultural Heritage Protection."
6. Speech of President Schevardnadze to Council of E;urope summit meeting in October,
1997 on importance of cultural heritage preservation to Georgia's future development.
*Including electronic files.



page 39
Annex 8
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                   and actual
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                                           disbursements a/
Project ID     Credit      Year                Borrower                        Purpose
No.                                                                                IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig   Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 2
Active Loans
GE-PE-39929   IDA30200       1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              SOCIAL INVEST. FUND               0.00      20.00             0.00         19.79         0.00       0.00
GE-PE-44797   IDA29830       1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              SAC II                            0.00      60.00             0.00         19.98       19.11       0.00
GE-PE-50910   IDA29760       1998   GEORGIA                           MUNICIPAL DEV.                     0.00      20.90             0.00         20.46        2.11        0.00
GE-PE-51034   IDA29840      1998   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA               SATAC II                          0.00        5.00            0.00          4.01         1.56      0.00
GE-PE-35784   IDA29580      1997   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA               POWER REHAB.                      0.00      52.30             0.00         41.00        8.92       0.00
GE-PE-44830   IDA29440      1997   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              OIL INSTITUTION BLDG               0.00        1.40            0.00          1.17          .09      0.00
GE-PE-8415    IDA29410      1997   GOVT. OF GEORGIA                   AGRICULTURE DEVELOP.               0.00      15.00             0.00         13.14          .04      0.00
GE-PE-39892   IDA28090      1996   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA               TRANSPORT                         0.00      12.00             0.00          4.86        2.61       0.00
GE-PE-44388   IDA28480      1996   REPUBLIC OF GEORGIA                 STRUCT. ADJUST. TA                0.00        4.80            0.00          2.51        2.72       0.00
GE-PE-8414    IDA28520      1996   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              HEALTH                             0.00      14.00             0.00         11.26        2.74       0.00
GE-PE-8413    IDA26410       1995   GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA              INSTITUTION BUILDING              0.00      10.10             0.00            .08        -.54       0.00
GE-PE-8417    IDA26580       1995   MINISTRY OF FINANCE                MUNICIPAL INFRA. REH              0.00       18.00            0.00          2.30         3.92       0.00
Total                                                                                                    0.00     233.50             0.00        140.56       43.28       0.00
Active Loans         Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  89.57              137.04              226.61
of which has been repaid:                   0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 233.50              135.00              368.50
Amount sold                      :                 0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                0.00                 0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              140.56                 0.00              140.56
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Rating of 1-4: see OD 13.05. Annex D2. Preparation of Implementation Summary (Form 590). Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a
letter based system will be used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory) : see proposed Improvements in
Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



page 40
Annex 9: Georgia at a Glance
Europe &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-
Georgia      Asia  income        Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (millions)                         5.4       479    1,125                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1996 (UI$)                              850      2,180    1,750
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                                4.6      1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (Y.)                                       -0.2        0.3      1.4      GNP              A                 Gross
Labor force (%)                                        -0.1       0.5      1.8      per    - --prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                             capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (,Y of population)             30
Urban population (% of total population)                58         65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        73         68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                18        26        41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     1                                    Georgia
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)   82         97      104
Male                                                  82        97       105      -      -- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                81        97       101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
196T    1985       1995     1996                                          _
GDP (billions US$)                                                2.9      4.6      Economic ratios*
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   .     34.3        4.0      5.0
Exports of goods and services/GDP               .                16.2     11.8              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      .     31.1       -7.2     -1.5
Gross national savings/GDP                      ..      ..    -10.1       -2.6
Current account balance/GDP                     ..      ..    -14.1       -7.6
Interest payments/GDP                           ..      ..        2.9      1.4      Savings     -----             Investment
Total debt/GDP                                  ..       ..      42.0     29.8
Total debt service/exports a/                  ..        ..       7.4      7.5
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..        .       23.7
Present value of debtlexports                   .        ..    217.7                            Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995      1996  1997-05
(average annual growth)                                                                       Georgia
GDP                                  5.3   -19.0       2.4       10.5      6.9               Lower-middle-income grup
GNP per capita                       4.5    -17.2      2.0       12.7      6.8
Exports of goods and services          ..      ..   -11.3        20.2      9.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1986      1995     1996
(% of GDP) bl                                                                       Growth rates of output and investment (%)
Agriculture                                    ..    25.5        35.3     33.5      150 -
Industry                                              39.6       26.7     25.1     10Q-
Manufacturing                                 ..    30.2       20.1      18.9
Services                                       ..    34.9        38.0     41.3      so-
Private consumption                             .     55.8      100.0     92.8
General government consumption                 ..    13.0         7.2      8.8      -so-
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..       27.4     18.4                 -     GDI     - D--GDP
1975-85  1986-96      1995     1996
(average annual growth)                                                             Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                    ..        .        5.5      3.0      30 -
Industry                                       ..       ..        1.0      2.0      20
Manufacturing                                 ..        .       1.0       2.0     2
Services                                       ..        .       54.0     16.3         -
Private consumption                            ..       ..      -10.4      2.6             91   92   93   94 -           se
General government consumption                 ..        .       52.7     52.7    -10 -
Gross domestic investment                      ..        .      123.0     43.4    -20 -
Imports of goods and services                   .        .      -15.5      9.1                    Exports    Imporis
Gross national product                        5.3    -17.1        2.4      6.9
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
a / Debt service due after rescheduling.
b/ GDP at factor cost.



page 41                                                     Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                                  1975      1985        1995      1996       Inflation%)
(% change)                                                                                 20,000 -
Consumer prices                                     ..        ..      162.7      39.3      15,000 
Implicit GDP deflator                              0.7      -4.5      162.7      40.2      10,000 -
Govemment finance                                                                           0.000 -
(0% of GDP)                                                                                           91   92   93   94    95   96
Current revenue (excl grants)                        ..       ..        5.1       8.1
Current budget balance (exci grants)                ..        ..       -6.1      -4.3                 -GDP  def.  -O--CPI
Overall surplus/deficit (excl grants)               ,.        ..       -7.2      -5.5
TRADE
(millionsUS$)                                              1985        1995      1996       Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                  ..       ..        347       400      7o000
Black Metal                                       ..        ..         38        75       6,000 -
Tea                                                ..       ..         11        26       5000
Manufactures                                       ..       ..        265       233      4,000    l 
Total imports (cif)                                 ..        ..        686       733       3,000 -I[ l
Food                                               ..       ..        163       186       2.000 l- l
Fuel and energy                                    .         ..       185       184       1,000 -~I
Capital goods                                                         121       127       1,000 -.-    __ilIL0ilL- fflt.
90   91   92   93   94   95   96
Export price index (1987=100)                       ..
Import price index (1987=100)                       ..        ..         ..         .Exports   01 Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                           ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975      1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                              Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                       ..        ..       469        541       0
Imports of goods and services                       ..         -        791       841      -5 --90   91   92   93   94   95   96
Resource balance                                    ..        ..       -322      -300      10                                    --
Net income                                          ..        ..        -86       -50     -15 -                              -
Net current transfers                               ..        ..          0         0      -20 -
-25 -
Current account balance,                                                                   -30 -
before official capital transfers                 ..        ..       -408      -350       35- 
Financing items (net)                               ..        ..        448       269      40 -
Changes in net reserves                              ..       ..        -40        81       45 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                  ..       ..        158       158
Conversion rate (locaUUS$)                           ..       ..      857.5   1,263.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975      1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                             Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                ..        ..      1,212     1,365
IBRD                                              ..        ..          0         0
IDA                                               ..       ..         84       165                                1B5
Total debt service a/                               ..                   35        42
IBRD                                              .                              0                                        C
IDA                                               ..                   0          1                                     196.5
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                          D
Official grants                                  ..        ..        189       141                                      15
Official creditors                                ..       ..        173       186
Private creditors                                ..        ..          0         0                  E
Foreign direct investment                          .        .,         6        20                 988.5
Portfolio equity                                  ,,       ,,          0          1
World Bank program
Commitments                                       ..       ..         75        91       A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                     ..       ..         83        81       B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Prncipal repayments                               ..       ..          0         0       C- IMF                         G - Short-term
Net flows                                                             83        81
Interest payments                                 ..       ..          0          1
Net transfers                                                         83        80
a / Debt service due after rescheduling.
Development Economics                                                                                                           8/20/97
Note: Estimates for economies of the former Soviet Union are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty.



page 42
Annex 10
Georgia Cultural Heritage Project
The Historical Context
by
Dr. Mariam Didebulidze
Georgia is geographically situated at the juncture of East and West. The history of its
culture has always been tightly linked with countries of Near East and Eastern Europe. It has also
played a role as political and cultural center in the Caucasus.
Georgia is a country of ancient culture, dating back to the earliest stages of human
history. Archeological excavations reveal abundant works of rich and original art. The first signs
of human life, found on the territory of Georgia (Dmanisi), are 1.8 million years old. Since then,
all stages of development of human history have been witnessed in Georgia. Archeological
evidence reveals a very sophisticated level of culture. Several Ibero-Caucasian tribes that
inhabited this land (e.g. Karts, Svans, Mengrels, Lazians, Abkhazians, Meskhetians, etc.), began
to unite and establish small states as early as 2-3 million B.C. They had common ethnic origins,
and soon began to form one nation, the language of which became the language of the Karts.
Due to its geographical location, Georgia has always been a point of interest for the great
states surrounding it - Assiria, Urartu, Persia, Rome, Byzantine., Turkey, Russia. Hence the
history of Georgia, whether separated into smaller kingdoms or united into one state, has been
one of unceasing struggle for independence against different inv,aders. Some of these invasions
have been disastrous, causing the ruin and destruction of entire cities, villages, monasteries, and
of the economy of the country. But nevertheless, Georgia manaLged to preserve its nationality,
state, and culture, and it still exists as a national state. For many centuries, since converting to
Christianity in 337 AD, Georgia served as a Christian stronghold in the midst of surrounding
Muslim countries.
Very early on the strong sense of national and cultural unity was developed among
Georgian people. By the third century B.C., the king Parnavaz united the kingdom of East and
the West Georgia with the idea of "one country, one language, one faith." King Parnavaz is
presumed to have created the Georgian alphabet. In the seventh century, when the country was
divided into several kingdoms, the famous monastic leader St. Grigol of Khanzta declared the
idea of spiritual, religious, and cultural unity. This notion of spiritual and cultural unity
independent from political circumstances was always very strong among Georgian people. This
caused the exceptionally venerable attitude of Georgians toward their culture, especially in the
last two centuries when the country became a colony of Russia and the Georgian state ceased to
exist. The sense of national self-identity was tightly linked with the old culture. As one of the
famous Georgian art historians remarked, "for the last two centuries we had no political
history; our history was the history of our culture." While interest and respect toward the national
culture is a natural phenomenon for all countries and their people, the historical misfortunes in
Georgia fortified this attitude.



page 43
Its noteworthy that alongside dreadful wars, invasions, destruction, religious
persecutions, and at times real genocide (as with Persians in 17-1 8th c. in Kakheti),
the Georgians continued to build monasteries, churches, and fortresses, continued to create
frescoes and icons and polyphonic music, and continued to write poetry. The creative strength of
the nation has been remarkable throughout history. The Georgian culture, created during more
than 40 centuries, is a significant contribution to world culture and deserves veneration.
Specific traits of Georgian culture are its inclusiveness, wiLh constant and very active
interaction with other cultures (e.g. Greek, Roman, Persian, Byzantine, Arabian, Russian, Ndrth
Caucasian, Armenian, European). The eagerness to develop cultural relations, and to adopt new
forms, styles and methods, always imbuing them with its own traditions and creating something
new and authentic, is the reason for strong creative activity and high artistic levels in works of
art. This enthusiasm for inter-cultural relations has been revealed throughout Georgian history in
its tolerant attitude towards the other nations more generally. For centuries the people of
different nations came to live to Georgia and were never persecuted. There were never national
nor racial confrontations among different ethnic groups or immigrants, including the Jewish
people. Hence, despite its unfortunate political life, Georgia always played a role of cultural
center and mediator in the Caucasus - for the North Caucasus, Armenia, and for Azerbaijan.
Georgia was the center where the best of poets, painters, and scientists, from the region could
come live in peace, study, and work. The pan-Caucasian strategic importance of Georgia must be
maintained and strengthened so that Georgia can serve as a trusted mediator for many Caucasian
problems.
However, the importance and significance of Georgian culture is not limited to
the Caucasus. The development of Eastern Georgian and even more so of Near Eastern
culture in general is hardly possible without the participation of Georgia, as witnessed both in
political and cultural history.
The fine arts, architecture, and painting are the important contributions of
Georgian cultural heritage, especially from the Christian period. Unfortunately, the current
condition of many of these works of art is disastrous, as preservation and conservation works
have been highly constrained over the last decade due to the unstable political situation and the
fiscal problems facing the country. There are many talented specialists in Georgia who, if funds
were available, could continue the urgent work of preservation.
The significance of ancient Georgian art hardly can be overestimated. The preservation,
scientific research, and publication of these monuments will contribute to enriching the treasury
of world art. Appropriate assistance in this field will provide not only improvements in the
conditions of first-rate works of art, but also job opportunities for hundreds of specialists and
community members around monuments who currently are unemployed or underemployed.
The sense of self-identity of Georgian people is deeply linked with their old culture,
which for them is not merely a pleasant reminiscence of the distant past, but it is considered to be
a live tradition, inspiring a new culture. The links between the past and the present are strong for
Georgians, and art is an indivisible part of contemporary consciousness. In some way, the
problems of moral and spiritual instability, uncertainty, and discontent in the consciou3ness of'
Georgian people during the economic transition can be assuaged by carrying out ambitious
programs of saving and preserving its precious national cultural heritage.



page 44
ANNEX II
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SIIEET FOR PROJECTS
in the IBRD'IDA Lending Program
Country:                       Georgia                  Project IL) No:        GE-PE-5573
Project Name:                  Cultural Heritage       Total Project Cost:     $4.97 million
Appraisal Date:                 12/8/97-12/12/97
Board Date:                    N/A                     Task ITeam Icader      Thomas 13inkhorn
Managing Division               ECSHD                   Sector                 Human Development
Est. date for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A
EA Category (A/B/C):           B                       Date Assigned:          1/5/98
Dale Shea Prepared/Updated 1/8/98
(Please do not leave anv items blank. use "N.'A or "To be developed" when appropriate)
Major Project Conponents: (presents description of project components )
I) Investment Component: Investments in historic structures, site management plans. landscapes, bed and breakfasts
and'or folk hotel system at 4 pilot cultural heritage sites (Old To'un, Tbilisi; Signaghi; Uplitsikhe; Shatili). Emergency
Rehabilitation Fund ($1 million) to respond to proposals for emergency repairs at cultural heritage sites and for at-risk
cultural artifacts.
2) Technical Assistance Component:
-Development of Integrated Conservation Master Plan for Old Town, Tbilisi
-Support to CH Project Implementation Unit for management, financial review, procurement, social assessment,
communt participation
-Training and Study Tours
-Public Awareness program
-Monitoring and Evaluation program, including Management Information System (MIS)
Major Environmenal Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
1. Underground water system leakages causing serious flooding and structural damage in Old Town, Tbilisi
IAer Environmental Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
1. Ancient archeology in Old Town, Tbilisi
2. Biodiversity protection and tourist impacts at Uplitsikhe and Shatili sites
ProposedAdions. (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
1. Underground water monitoring study will indicate "islands of safety" for historic renovations in Old Town (financed
separately under Trust Fund)
2. Underground water feasibility study will identify alternatives for systemic rehabilitation of underground water system
in Old Town (financed separately under Trust Fund)
3. Proposal to link Cultural Heritage project with Tbilisi Water and Sewage project to help finance underground water
system rehabilitation in Old Town
4. Depending on fmdings from groundwater study, proposed rehabilitation of Irakle Street historic caravansary will
require envirownental analysis and full Resettlement and Community Developrnent Plan for 41 dwellers (20 households).
Trust Funds will support installation of an underground water monitoring system and a groundwater feasibility study to
address leakages causing serious underground water problems in Old Town, Tbilisi.



page 45
5. Development of Integrated Conservation Mfaster Plan for Old To% n u ill include ens ironmental anal. sis and
conservation planning guidelines.
6. Consulting archeologist to study impacts of proposed individual investments in Old Town
7. Site management plans which address biodiversity protection and mitigation of tourism impacts will be prepared for
two environmentally sensitive cultural heritage pilot sites, Shatili mountain village and Uplitsikhe cave city.
JuslzicatiowRadonalefor Eavironmental Category: (reasons for env. category selected & explanation of any changes from initial
classification)
B category agreed by all parties. Most investments will improve overall environmental quality through landscape
improvements, installation of potable water and sewage systems, site management planning, Old Town Conservation
master plan, neighborhood funds for gutter and drain improvements. Trust Funds will fund investigations of the
underground water problem in Old Town.
SAatus of Category A Enviroennta Alssessment: (presents EA start-up date. EA first draft. and current status)
N/'A
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has
given pennission to release EA, etc)
1. Underground water monitoring study for Old Town, Jan.-March, 1998 (financed by Trust Fund)
2. Underground water feasibility study for Old Town to be undertaken March-May, 1998 (financed by Trust Fund)
3. Biodiveitity Action Plan completed
4. New GEF Biodiversity Project (under preparation): may link to CH project in future
5. Georgia Protected Areas Group (NGO), and Caucasus Tours, consulted Dec. 1997 on Signaghi tourism, Shatili
mountain site plannmg.
Signed                     e bCS |                                                       r Leader
Leader/                               ECSZ          eader
.    F_*   p  L _ Go A -Z                                                               January I1I, 1998 



IBRD 29231 R
40                                           41                                            42                                          43'                                          44'                                           455                                          46
GEORGIA
CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT
PILOT CULTURAL HERITAGE SITES          r   -   B IU UP URBAN AREA
*041) TOWN TBILISI                       0     SELECTED CITIES
> R U  S S  I A  N        F E D  E R A  T I O   N                                                                        SIGNAH                     S                   AUTONOMO US REPUBLIC CENTERS
',PLISTIKHE    NATIONAL CAPITAL
G li *   1 g                 5  i        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GLACIER AREAS
MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
NERNAONAL BOUNDARIES
434                                                                                                                                                                                                          ELEUATIONS IN METERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEAIOSI MTR
E-             -                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2000 ,o     o  T K   VMdi  : vf    00
A  0000  A2EUBA AN  01 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 04444~~~~~~~~~~~~400~~~~~~~~10
Z ~~~~~~00~~~~~~-~~~~~444 olo,yo,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,o  (                                                                                          J~~~~~~~~~~0
-7  t  , t   2   or /s mns do ncl lmph a                                                                                                                                                         \ * . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1:, 
.. _0 4044000           ~                                                                                                                                                                                                  AZE h    ' kRBA IJAN
: -    - SYRIAN ARAE REP    IRAQ   -    ISLA6/llC REP OF IRAN                     AZ 43                                                                                                                                                                                           U 44' 45"  t  460          JANUARYkIDAO
-12-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     42~~~~RP  F RA  4-'
UKRAINE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UUUYIN



