                                         Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 29316-GE

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (IDA-30400)

                                              ON A

                                            CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.4 MILLION
                              (US$4.49 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                               TO

                                           GEORGIA

                                            FOR A

                              CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT




                                          June 15, 2004




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 3, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Lari (GEL)
                                  Lari (GEL) 1 = US$ 0.52
                                      US$ 1.00 = Lari (GEL) 1.92

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
DCA Development Credit Agreement
IDF Institutional Development Fund
LIL Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO Non-Governmental Organization
PAD Project Appraisal Document
PIU Project Implementation Unit

                                Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                              Country Director     Donna M. Dowsett-Coirolo
                               Sector Manager      Alexandre Marc
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Janis D. Bernstein

                                          GEORGIA
                            CULTURAL HERITAGE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                    Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  12
6. Sustainability                                                                      13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     18
9. Partner Comments                                                                    19
10. Additional Information                                                             20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  30
Annex 8. Evaluation Report: Fund for Preservation of Cultural Heritage of Georgia      31
Annex 9. Partner Comments: Ministry of Finance of Georgia                              50

Project ID: P055573                                                  Project Name: CULTURAL HERITAGE
Team Leader: Janis D. Bernstein                                      TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: CULTURAL HERITAGE                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-30400
   Country/Department: GEORGIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (71%); Central government administration
                            (29%)
                  Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P); Other financial and private
                            sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/20/1997                                     Effective: 05/18/1998                05/18/1998
     Appraisal: 11/20/1997                                         MTR: 11/15/1999                  02/28/2000
      Approval: 02/13/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Georgia/Fund for Preservation of Cultural Heritage of Georgia
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre Marc                                 James Christopher Lovelace
Team Leader at ICR:             Janis D. Bernstein                             Thomas Blinkhorn
ICR Primary Author:             Wendy Schreiber Ayres




2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project's objective was to improve the management and promotion of Georgia's rich cultural heritage
by: (a) testing approaches that could revive the once dynamic tourism industry, and (b) engendering social
cohesion and national identity during the difficult economic transition. The project would achieve this
objective by financing work to restore four sites of significant historic importance (including work to
prevent further deterioration of private homes); activities proposed by community groups and others to
restore or preserve historical and cultural assets (including music, dance, and handicrafts) in danger of
being irrevocably lost; and technical assistance to strengthen capacity of the project implementation unit to
manage the project, build awareness of the public of cultural heritage, and strengthen the capacity of people
to develop and implement site management plans.

The overall project objective was, and remains, appropriate. It reflected the importance of Georgia's
cultural heritage to both citizens of the nation and to people of the world. Georgia is home to some 12,000
culturally significant monuments, and religious buildings, forts and walled cities, some dating to the last
centuries B.C. Tbilisi, its capital city, protected from the development pressures that have changed the
character of most cities in the rest of Central and Eastern Europe, still contains large neighborhoods
dominated by traditional houses and shops. Georgia also has a rich and unique history of music and
literature that is a strong focus of national pride and identity. At the time the project was conceived and
prepared, the country had been independent from the Soviet Union for just six years. Interest in the history
and culture of Georgia was rising rapidly as citizens sought to recapture a national identity based on its
diverse ethnic and cultural traditions.

The project's objective was also in line with the government's strategy of reviving tourism, a potentially
important source of growth for Georgia. According to government statistics, tourism and travel accounted
for about 10 percent of GDP in 2002. Tourism, along with the other economic activities, had collapsed
                                             1


with the breakup of the Soviet Union, and revitalizing the industry by restoring and protecting cultural sites
and by reviving traditional music, dance, handicrafts, and other artistic activities was, and still is, viewed as
important to stimulating the economy as a whole. Finally, the project was designed to help promote social
cohesion in a country divided by conflict among various ethnic and political groups that threatened to tear
the nation apart.

The project's objectives also supported the objectives the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS). These
were to promote economic growth and diversification, to strengthen public finance, to protect the
environment, and to reduce poverty. The project promoted economic growth by rehabilitating historic sites
and revitalizing cultural traditions of interest to both Georgians and foreign visitors. It helped to strengthen
public finance by insisting on transparency and accountability in procurement and financial management of
project-related expenditures. It helped to improve environmental conditions in Tbilisi by encouraging the
municipality to address the severe underground water problem, and in the other pilot sites, by supporting
the development of environmental management plans. It also helped to reduce poverty by stimulating
development in the areas where it operated. Finally, the project fit well within a broader program of Bank
support to Georgia, which included a municipal infrastructure project and a social investment fund project,
both of which aimed at revitalizing Georgia's cities and towns.
_____________________________________
1
 Statistics on tourism are very weak in Georgia and appear to capture not only tourists spending time in Georgia, but also
lorries passing through Georgia transporting goods among neighboring countries.




                                                             - 2 -

The project was the first stand-alone cultural heritage project to be supported by the Bank. Because of its
innovative nature, a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was used to pilot a variety of approaches to
revive and protect cultural heritage. The project was the first in the Europe and Central Asia Region to
benefit from this Bank instrument, which was introduced in fiscal 1998.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of the project were not formally revised during implementation. The Development Credit
Agreement (DCA), however, was amended three times. The DCA was amended on July 22, 1998 to add
operating costs to categories eligible for financing. The DCA was amended on May 5, 2000 to revise
procurement procedures, as recommended in the midterm review. The DCA was amended on November
29, 2001 to reallocate proceeds of the Credit.

3.3 Original Components:

The project comprised two broad components:

(1)      Investment (US$3.57 million). This included two subcomponents:

l Emergency Rehabilitation Program (US$1.03 million). This subcomponent focused on preventing the
    permanent loss of both immoveable and moveable cultural heritage by financing activities such as
    stabilizing buildings in danger of collapse, microfilming and archiving old manuscripts, and recording
    traditional songs and dances. The program was to provide as grants a maximum of US$75,000 to
                                       2


    community groups, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), institutes, and others whose proposals
    were selected by the 52-member Georgian Cultural Revival Board through a rigorously transparent
    selection process. The staff of the Fund for the Preservation of Culture Heritage of Georgia (hereafter
    referred to as the Fund), which was established under the IDF and became the project implementation
    unit (PIU), would provide technical assistance to the committee and to beneficiaries, screen proposals
    for presentation to the committee to ensure that they complied with the criteria, and monitor and
    evaluate their implementation.

l Pilot Priority Cultural Heritage Sites (US$2.54 million). This subcomponent focused on
     comprehensively restoring the historic buildings, and monuments, and the surrounding areas of four
     important cultural heritage sites. The sites¯Old Town, Tbilisi; the famous northern mountain town of
     defensive towers, Shatili; the walled town of Signaghi; and the ancient rock city of Uplistsikhe¯were
     chosen after wide consultation with stakeholders on the basis of their cultural significance; evidence of
     community commitment to help protect, manage, and maintain the site; and evidence of community
     willingness to consider piloting new approaches for financing site management and maintenance,
     including through the forming public-private partnerships and implementing measures to recover
     costs. Funds were to be provided as grants to local authorities or community groups in accordance
     with a signed memorandum of understanding that would reflect a simplified plan, budget, and
     schedule for operation and maintenance. The Fund would assist communities prepare the plans. This
     subcomponent also included funds to rehabilitate private properties in Tbilisi and Signaghi officially
     designated as historic, called the Neighborhood Fund.
 ____________________________________
 2
 The subcomponent was originally titled the Emergency Rehabilitation Fund. The name was later changed to avoid confusion
 with the Fund for the Preservation of Cultural Heritage of Georgia, the PIU for the project.




                                                             - 3 -

(2)      Technical Assistance (US$1.4 million). This component included five subcomponents:

l PIU Support and Institution Building. This supported and strengthened the PIU by providing
    technical assistance in areas such as project management, finance and administration, procurement,
    monitoring and evaluation, and engineering. It also helped build capacity of the Ministry of Culture
    and other cultural heritage-related institutions by financing the participation of their staff in study tours
    and training sessions.

l Training and Study Tours. This involved training of staff of the PIU, the Ministry of Culture and
    other cultural heritage institutes, municipal authorities, and community groups in project management,
    community mobilization, methodologies of economic evaluation, and others according to demand. This
    subcomponent also included study tours to destinations in Western Europe to learn about their
    experiences in successfully preserving and promoting cultural heritage.

l Public Awareness Program. This involved preparation of articles for magazines and newspapers,
    programs for radio and television, and brochures and information booklets designed to increase public
    awareness of the importance of cultural heritage and the activities of the Fund. It also included funds
    to present photo exhibits, cultural fairs, seminars, the design and operation of a website, and the like.

l Integrated Conservation Master Plan, Old Town. This involved preparation of a plan intended to
    guide future development in Old Town, Tbilisi. The master plan would incorporate principles of
    planning in areas with important historical urban architecture and would involve economic and market
    analyses.

l Monitoring and Evaluation. This supported the development of a management information system to
    be used to monitor implementation of the project and its impact. This subcomponent would also
    support technical and financial audits, beneficiary assessments, and reports of independent evaluators.
    Finally, it would support participatory monitoring by cultural heritage committees at the pilot sites.

The project was expected to be executed over three years. Overall responsibility for project implementation
rested with the Fund, which was constituted as an autonomous agency for this purpose through decree.
The Fund had gained experience with Bank procedures and project management by implementing the
US$430,000 Cultural Heritage Initiative approved in 1996, financed by an Institutional Development Fund
(IDF) grant, that had established the institutional foundation for the project. The Cultural Heritage
Initiative Board of Trustees¯established by decree in 1996 with the support of the IDF grant and
comprising representatives of government agencies and NGOs¯was to facilitate coordination, provide
policy guidance, and oversee implementation. The Georgian Culture Revival Board would have a major
role in evaluating and selecting proposals for funding under the ERP. Groups whose proposals were
approved were responsible for implementing the proposed activities. The Fund would provide technical
assistance and oversight. Community cultural heritage committees, with the technical assistance of the
Fund were to implement small-scale activities at the pilot sites. The Fund was responsible for all
procurement.

3.4 Revised Components:

Project components were not formally revised during project implementation. However, funds were
reallocated to allow six competitions to be held for funding under the popular Emergency Repair Program
(ERP), rather than the three originally envisaged. The total cost of this subcomponent rose to US$1.46
million from the originally envisaged US$1.03 million.


                                                      - 4 -

The project closing date was extended twice. The first extension to December 31, 2002 was granted to
allow work in Tbilisi and Uplistsikhe to be completed. Works in Tbilisi could not start until repairs of the
underground water systems conducted by the Municipality of Tbilisi and the Municipal Development Fund
were complete. Moreover, an earthquake in November 2000 damaged the caves at Uplistsikhe, which
required emergency reinforcement and delayed the start of the works. The second extension to December
31, 2003 was given to permit work in Tbilisi to be completed. Work had been delayed by bad weather last
winter, an earthquake in April 2002, and unexpected difficulties in making arrangements for the temporary
relocation of residents of the Erekle St. caravansary.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Quality at entry is rated marginally satisfactory. The project's development objectives were reasonably
clear and appropriate, although too broad to allow measurement of the project's achievements. They were
consistent with the government's development strategy and the Bank's CAS. The project aimed to rescue
cultural heritage in danger of permanent loss--critical both for stimulating economic development and for
preserving and re-creating a national identity. The Bank's Quality Assessment Group did not assess the
project's quality at entry.

The project design benefited substantially from discussions with other organizations active in preservation
of cultural heritage in Georgia, including the Council of Europe, Getty Trust, World Monuments Fund,
UNESCO, and the Soros Foundation. It also reflected lessons learned from the implementation of the IDF
grant and from the experiences of other countries with preservation of cultural heritage. These included
incorporating a demand-driven fund for emergency rehabilitation of cultural heritage among the project's
components, undertaking social assessments at the pilot sites, establishing community cultural heritage
committees to help design and implement activities at the pilot sites, and supporting activities to raise
public awareness of issues related to cultural heritage.

The design also accounted for Georgia's limited experience with and capacity for implementing
Bank-supported projects by using a autonomous PIU (that is, the Fund) to implement the project, staffed
with many of the same people that had executed the IDF grant. While the use of independent PIUs is often
criticized for creating structures parallel to those of the government, most Bank-supported projects in
Georgia are implemented by such PIUs to compensate for exceptionally weak government capacity. The
project also included substantial resources to develop human resources and to strengthen institutional
capacity over time.

The design was consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies. The project, classified environmental impact
assessment category B, included funds for environmental analyses to be conducted at the pilot sites.
Building on work that the Bank undertook in preparation of the project, the design also took account of the
severe underground water problems in Old Town, Tbilisi by ensuring that rehabilitation of infrastructure
and buildings took place only after the problem was resolved. The project included funds for the
development of a resettlement and rehabilitation plan should the need for resettlement arise.

The project appraisal document (PAD) realistically appraised the risks the project would face. In
particular, it recognized that the risk of failing to mobilize resources for the operations and maintenance
was substantial. The PAD did, however, mistakenly consider as negligible the risk that counterpart funds
might not be forthcoming, and as modest the risk that no agreement with occupants of the Erekle Street
caravansary on temporary resettlement could be reached. Credit effectiveness conditions¯depositing
counterpart funding for the first year of the project (US$100,000) in a bank account, and completing and



                                                        - 5 -

adopting the project operation manual acceptable to IDA--were appropriate given the government's poor
track record in providing agreed counterpart funds for donor-financed projects and the need to have clear
implementation arrangements prior to project launch. Credit disbursement conditions that applied to
financing of the renovation of the Erekle Street caravansary¯confirming that underground water problems
were not an impediment to restoration, and completing a resettlement and rehabilitation plan acceptable to
IDA¯were essential to ensure that project resources were not wasted and that the project complied with the
Bank's safeguard policies. A dated covenant that the PIU recruit four technical specialists (project
management advisor, procurement advisor, financial expert, and monitoring and evaluation specialist) was
also appropriate.

The design of the project was, however, weak in several ways. First, the plans for community participation
were underdeveloped. Thus although the PAD states that resources for renovating pilot sites would be
provided as grants to local authorities or community groups to implement subprojects, this was not
implemented.

Second, the project design failed to pay adequate attention to issues of raising funds for operating and
maintaining the project investments. While it was envisaged that the project would support experiments
with cost recovery techniques, the project designers appear to have been unaware that such experiments at
public sites require a special decree before they can be carried out, an obstacle that ultimately blocked such
experimentation. Even where entrance fees can be charged, such as at museums, the low number of
visitors at most sites and the laws that require revenues raised through such fees to be submitted to the
central treasury mean that other methods of raising funds for operations and maintenance must be found.

Third, the project design lacked an economic analysis that might have revealed where resources could best
be targeted. For example, Shatili was selected as one of the pilot sites, despite being snowbound nine
months of the year--not an area where tourism is likely to rise significantly in the near future (although
Shatili is located near the Chechen border, it was considered a safe ecotourist destination at the time the
project was designed). Although Shatili holds a special place in the hearts of Georgians because of its
unique defensive towers, economic analysis may have shown whether the existence values alone could
justify the use of public funds for renovations in a inaccessible village that is home to just 25 families, or
whether the resources could be better spent elsewhere. Disagreements among the Bank team that arose
during implementation with regard to Sighnaghi's prospects for increased tourism also may have been
avoided.

Fourth, the PAD did not present hypotheses that stated what questions were being explored through the
project. This is a serious omission, given that the purpose of a LIL is to understand the effectiveness of the
various approaches being tried. Although the project was prepared before clear guidance on the purpose
and content of LILs had been prepared and the new template for LILs (which emphasizes their learning
aspects) became available, more attention could have been paid to clearly articulating what the project
designers expected to learn from the project and how the learning would take place.
Fifth, despite including a subcomponent in the project on monitoring and evaluation (M&E) and the
contracting of an international consultant to help design an M&E system, the plan for M&E was poorly
articulated. Key performance indicators specified to measure impact were either too vague to be useful
(incorporation of lessons learned through the project by government and communities in future efforts to
preserve and promote cultural heritage), or would be difficult if not impossible to attribute to the project
without the use of sophisticated econometric techniques (increase in number of tourists visiting the sites
benefiting from the project, and increase in number of cultural heritage-related activities, such as the
national music competitions, during the project life). The PAD lacked benchmarks or details of the tools
that would be used to measure project impacts. The PAD also failed to acknowledge that statistical


                                                      - 6 -

capacity in Georgia is extremely weak, and to propose measures that would allow necessary information to
be collected in the face of the weaknesses.

Finally, establishing a three-year time frame for implementing the project was too ambitious, especially
considering its experimental nature. All experiments require time to carry out, evaluate, redesign, retest,
and reevaluate. Successfully concluding several experiments simultaneously, as in this project, in just three
years is not likely.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Achievement of the objectives of the project is rated satisfactory. While the project's objectives were
broad, which makes measuring achievements difficult, the project has contributed to permanently
improving the management and promotion of Georgia's cultural heritage by demonstrating the value of a
variety of approaches to protecting and rehabilitating cultural heritage, forging ties with private benefactors
and international groups, and taking the lead in formulating key legislation designed to protect historic
properties and to encourage private investment in preservation. Importantly, the project stimulated
economic development in areas where it operated. Especially noteworthy is the project's impact on the
revitalization of Old Town, Tbilisi. By restoring facades, resetting the cobblestone pavement, installing
street lights, and landscaping public parks in Old Town, Tbilisi, the project has encouraged private
investors to renovate on their own several of the city's most important old buildings. Many of the workers
executing these private developments received their training working on project-financed activities.
Rehabilitation of the area has also led to the opening of hotels, cafés, restaurants, shops, and galleries in the
area and to an influx of residents and offices. This has led to a significant increase in property values in
the historic district. The project generated widespread public awareness throughout the nation of the
importance of cultural heritage and of actions that community and other groups can take to protect and
rehabilitate it. By employing many workers with special skills, it helped to revitalize knowledge of crafts
and workmanship that will be used in future preservation efforts. Finally, the project assisted in
strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Culture, institutes, NGOs, community groups, and others
interested in protecting cultural heritage by providing technical assistance and training in preparing
proposals and implementing projects. Finally, it helped to build the capacity of cultural heritage
committees to prepare and implement participatory community action plans.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Investment (US$3.7 million)

         ERP (US$1.03 million revised to US$1.46)

Outputs of the ERP are highly satisfactory. The program helped to protect from further deterioration or
permanent loss over 100 cultural and historic treasures through 58 projects, including churches,
monuments, frescoes, mural paintings, archeological sites, forts, manuscripts, folk music, photos, films,
and dances. The ERP supported projects in all regions of the country through a competitive process that is
regarded by the cultural heritage community of Georgia as transparent, fair, and effective. Both the
eligibility criteria and the process through which proposals are selected have contributed to the success of
the program. Among the eligibility criteria are that projects can cost a maximum of US$75,000 and that
no single group can submit more than one proposal per competition. This ensured that resources were



                                                     - 7 -

available to fund a large number of projects sponsored by diverse groups. The popularity of the program
led to an expansion from three competitions to six competitions.

Perhaps surprisingly, all 58 proposed projects were completed, most on schedule and within budget. This
is due in large part to the technical assistance and supervision of implementation offered by the Fund to the
project sponsors. Noteworthy is that several projects in the regions under dispute were implemented jointly
by members of different ethnic groups. For example, subprojects in Javakheti and in South Ossetia (Ikorta,
Azmana, Tighva) were implemented and are being maintained by people of various ethnic groups and
religions. Observers believe that this has helped to strengthen social cohesion and a sense of national
identity in such areas.

         Pilot Priority Cultural Heritage Sites (US$2.54 million, revised to US$2.08 million)

Outputs of the pilot priority cultural heritage sites subcomponent are satisfactory. The component
rehabilitated urban spaces, parks, historic homes, and museums in Tbilisi and Sighnaghi; prepared for
visitors the ancient cave city of Uplistsikhe; and rehabilitated 29 unique medieval towers, the water supply
system, a meeting hall, and a historic brewery in Shatili. Quality of construction, while largely
satisfactory, has sometimes been disappointing due to early problems with the quality of technical drawings
and specifications, and inadequate supervision of work. These problems were partly, but not fully
resolved. While strong on archeological and historical conservation and research techniques, the Fund was
unable to establish an effective supervision unit to cover conventional construction, resulting in poorly
conceived and implemented finish work.

The project helped to resolve underground water problems in Old Town, Tbilisi first by mobilizing trust
funds to assess and find solutions to the problem, and second by leveraging municipal funds and
coordinating closely with the Bank-supported Municipal Development Fund to ensure that repairs to the
underground water system were given priority in its schedule of activities. The project responded rapidly to
reinforce the caves of Uplistsikhe that were threatened with collapse following an earthquake in November
2001. The project was not however able to renovate the Erekle Street caravansary, the oldest caravansary
in Tbilisi. Although the Fund and the municipal authorities spent several months attempting to negotiate an
agreement with the residents of the building on a temporary resettlement plan, agreement was not reached
by the time of an earthquake in April 2002. By then, the building had suffered structural damage from the
earthquake and project funds to fully repair the structure were insufficient, even if agreement had been
reached. Instead of undergoing a complete renovation, the caravansary has had its main section reinforced
and the roof rehabilitated. The municipality provided temporary external supports for the rear part of the
building and continues to seek funds to complete its renovation.

The Neighborhood Fund repaired or replaced the gutters and drain pipes, and repaired balconies and
facades of 36 historic homes in Tbilisi and 37 historic buildings in Signaghi. While the Neighborhood
Fund was successful, it was the most troublesome element of the pilot sites subcomponent. The
Neighborhood Fund financed up to US$1,500 of exterior improvements (US$4,500 to for a multiple-family
dwelling) to private properties in Tbilisi and Signaghi that were included in a registry of historic homes.
The purpose of the program was to save historic homes from further deterioration by making inexpensive
but critical repairs to the exterior of buildings (most have not been maintained since they were transferred
to private ownership soon after Georgia became independent from the Soviet Union, and had already been
seriously neglected under the Soviet regime), and to encourage private investment in restoration by
demonstrating its ability to increase home values. The Neighborhood Fund proved to be difficult to
manage. Many homeowners, whose properties had until independence been nominally maintained by the
state, felt that the project should finance renovations to interiors in addition to exteriors, and demanded the


                                                       - 8 -

full US$1,500 even when this was not needed to fund work on the exterior. People whose houses were not
on the official list of historic houses questioned the fairness of the program. Tensions between the Bank
and the Fund arose over the issue of cost recovery, with the Fund proposing that better-off homeowners be
offered loans rather than grants to ensure the sustainability of the program and the Bank team explaining
that providing loans would significantly increase the complexity of the program. In sum, the Neighborhood
Fund required substantial resources for administration and consultation that might have been better spent
on renovating public streets, urban spaces, and historic buildings. Nonetheless, the program arrested the
deterioration of historic buildings, thus contributing to the preservation of a part of the architectural legacy
of Tbilisi and Signaghi.

New legislation and regulations in support of the preservation of cultural heritage was drafted under the
leadership of the Fund and subsequently enacted by parliament. These include the Law on Preservation of
Cultural Heritage (June 1999), the Law on Export and Import of Cultural Properties (June 2001), the Law
on Museums (June 2001), and amendments to the Law on Preservation of Cultural Heritage (May 2002).
With the encouragement and technical assistance of the Fund, Georgia also acceded to several international
conventions, including the Granada Convention on Architectural Heritage Protection and La Valetta
Convention on Archaeological Heritage Protection (both in February 2000). Laws on archaeology, on
territorial-spatial planning and urbanization, and on sponsorship and charity in the sphere of culture¯which
are still awaiting enactment by parliament¯have also been drafted with the help of the Fund.

Site management plans for the four pilot sites were developed under the project with the active participation
of local cultural heritage committees and other community groups. The management plans include
measures to mobilize funds for operations and maintenance and plans for the sustainable development of
the sites. The plans have been approved by the State Monument Protection Department. However, funding
for implementing the site management plans other than that provided under the project has for the most part
not materialized. Some of the elements of the plan for Shatili are being implemented with funds raised by
the community, including rehabilitating the local hydropower station and assisting local residents create
attractive spaces in their homes for tourists.

Component 2: Technical Assistance (US$1.4 million, revised to US$1.37)

          Fund Support and Institution Building

Outputs of this subcomponent are satisfactory. After initial delays, the Fund contracted the services of
three international experts to support project management (ten months), financial management (nine
months), and monitoring and evaluation (six months). Detailed job description for each position in the
Fund were prepared. Organization of the Fund was brought in line with its responsibilities. Training
through seminars and hands-on experience was provided to staff in modern management practices, financial
management, use of management information systems, accounting, procurement, disbursement, and
monitoring and evaluation.

A management information system and a monitoring and evaluation system were developed. Weekly staff
meetings were introduced to ensure that all staff members knew what others were doing and to foster a
sense of teamwork. These measures quickly led to improving execution of the project. The Fund benefited
from additional support during the project. Under a separate grant-financed exercise, Fund staff
participated in training in community action planning. They subsequently led a participatory community
planning exercise in Sighnaghi. The action plan is of high quality and aspects of it are already being
implemented. The action plan also has led to a Swiss investment in improving Sighnaghi's water supply
system.


                                                       - 9 -

Some problems took time to resolve. Despite considerable assistance from the Bank, financial reporting
remained somewhat opaque until close to the end of the project, although in 2000 the Fund started using
accounting software recommended by the Bank. Although the Fund did not follow up the Bank's
recommendation to contract technical assistance in this area, it consistently clarified any questions
regarding financial statements and explained any discrepancies as they arose. Moreover, the audits did not
reveal problems in financial management. Another issue related to the monitoring and evaluation system.
Although it was developed with the assistance of the international expert, the system was deemed
inappropriate for use by the Fund. Time was required before a workable system was put into place. Once
the system was established, the Fund significantly improved its monthly, quarterly, and annual reporting to
the Bank.

Some aspects of technical assistance were not well used. Social assessments conducted by the Fund were
too weak to be useful and needed to be redone by outside consulting firms. Whether even these were used
to guide project investments is not clear. Market studies were not carried out. Training on the
methodologies of economic evaluation was not provided. Approaches for recovering costs were developed,
but never implemented because the Fund lacked authority to introduce charges at public sites.

         Training and Study Tours

Outputs of this subcomponent are satisfactory. Key staff of the Fund, the Ministry of Culture, and NGOs
participated in a study tour to England taken in early 2002. The visit involved meetings with the National
Trust, the Architectural Heritage Fund, the English Heritage Fund, the Bath Preservation Trust, the
Victoria and Albert and other museums, several visitors centers, and other sites. Participants learned about
the use of revolving funds, legal instruments, and financial incentives to encourage private owners to
restore their historical properties. They also met with experts on site management planning and value-led
conservation, operation of trusts, use of cost recovery mechanisms and concessions to finance operations
and maintenance, and use of promotional and educational materials to raise public awareness of the
importance of cultural heritage. Participants rate the tour as highly useful and staff of the Fund are
actively exploring ways to replicate some of the approaches in Georgia.

Cultural heritage committees were established at all four pilot sites. All remained actively involved in
planning and implementing activities at their sites. All continue to pursue new sources of funding to
implement the site management plans, although with varying degrees of success.

         Public Awareness Program

Outputs of this subcomponent are satisfactory. The subcomponent produced numerous articles for
magazines and newspapers, programs for radio and television, and brochures and information booklets for
distribution to the public. It also financed photo exhibits, cultural fairs, and seminars. It produced and
maintains a website that receives thousands of hits a month. It also frequently succeeded in obtaining
coverage of its activities from both state and independent media outlets. For example, the independent
television broadcasting company, Mze, covered the restoration of a church in Ikorta (on the World
Monument Watch list) that was financed under the ERP. Although survey data do not exist, anecdotal
evidence suggests that the activities of this subcomponent have substantially increased public awareness of
and interest in preserving Georgia's substantial and varied cultural heritage.




                                                    - 10 -

         Integrated Conservation Master Plan, Old Town

Outputs of this subcomponent are satisfactory. The conservation master plan was developed in close
collaboration with experts of the Council of Europe. It is considered a guiding document by the Tbilisi
Architectural Service, the Cultural Heritage Subcommittee of the Parliament of Georgia, and many cultural
heritage experts. The Tbilisi Architectural Service is now preparing a paper drawing on its
recommendations to guide the city in its future planning.

         Monitoring and Evaluation

Outputs of this subcomponent are satisfactory. As noted above, the indicators initially chosen to monitor
impact were either not quantifiable or not useful. The Fund eventually agreed with the Bank to monitor a
revised set of twelve indicators performance indicators for which data were reasonably easy to obtain.
After a slow start and with guidance from the Bank on the content and format of the reports, the Fund
consistently produced timely and high-quality monthly, quarterly, and annual reports covering all aspects of
project implementation. These allowed problems to be quickly identified and solved and helped
considerably in implementing the project. Although participatory monitoring and evaluation at the pilot
sites was not carried out, the Fund maintained close contacts with cultural heritage committees and
solicited feedback which was communicated to the government and the Bank.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

The PAD did not include an estimate of the net present value or economic rate of return for the project.
Sound methodologies for estimating net present values of cultural heritage projects had not been developed
at the time the project was being prepared. While methodologies often used to evaluate environmental
projects could have been adapted to produce such estimates for this project, considerable time and expense
would have been required to produce credible results. Given the short preparation time of the project (three
months), undertaking such an exercise would have been difficult. Estimating the net present values of the
activities of the ERP was not possible, because these were not known in advance. Estimating net present
values of technical assistance is also difficult or impossible.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

The project appraisal document did not include an estimate of the financial rate of return. Few of the
specific activities were expected to generate revenues directly, although it was hoped that would do so
indirectly by stimulating tourism and economic growth in the areas benefiting from the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact is rated modest. The project succeeded in strengthening government
agencies, NGOs, institutes, and community groups involved in protecting and promoting cultural heritage.
These organizations benefited both from employing people who learned skills through employment at the
Fund, and through their involvement in implementing project-funded activities. A large number of former
Fund staff members are now employed at the Department of Monument Protection at the Ministry of
Culture, and according to its director, are helping to completely restructure and revitalize the department.
Others are now working at various institutes of history and art history in Georgia. Still others have gone
on to develop private businesses that produce and sell maps of important monuments and buildings of
Georgian architecture, tapes of traditional Georgian music, and the like. Others are providing consulting
services. Groups that benefited from the ERP acquired skills in writing proposals and managing projects



                                                      - 11 -

that they are using to seek additional funding to rehabilitate or preserve cultural heritage. Some have
already received funding from other donors on the basis of these skills.

Government bodies, NGOs, and institutes that are members of the Georgian Cultural Revival Board have
also been strengthened under the project. The Georgian Cultural Revival Board maintains a permanent
representative in the Department of Culture, Education and Sports of the State Chancellery (president's
office) who liaises regularly with the Cultural Heritage Subcommittee of the parliament. Community
groups such as cultural heritage committees, have been significantly strengthened under the project through
their involvement in planning and implementing project-supported activities. At the end of the project,
these groups remain active in driving forward a vision of development based on the preservation of cultural
heritage. For example, the cultural heritage committee of Tbilisi now plays a critical role in reporting
illegal construction to the authorities.

The project helped in creating the regulatory framework for the preservation of cultural heritage through its
leadership in drafting and promoting the enactment of laws aimed at protecting Georgia's cultural and
historical treasures. It has helped to create a partnership between the municipal government of Tbilisi, the
central government, and other donor-funded projects to finance different elements of the renovation of Old
Town, Tbilisi. This partnership is likely to last beyond the life of the project. Finally, it has played a
major role in encouraging private firms and foundations to either donate funds or enter into public-private
partnerships to protect cultural resources. This is helping to create a sustainable source of funding for
cultural heritage and to broaden support for its protection.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The influence of outside factors on project outcomes has been significant. Most important is the failure of
expected increases in tourism to Georgia to materialize during the nearly six years of the project.
Unresolved separatist movements in the country, tensions between Georgia and Russia over events in
Chechnya, and the terrorist attacks in New York on September 11, 2001 have all blunted interest of
foreigners in travel to Georgia. Continuing economic stagnation in Georgia leaves citizens with little
discretionary income with which to travel. Low tourism has limited the impact of project investments on
economic development of the areas where it operated. The failure to generate income through tourism is
evident in Signaghi, which is depending on tourism to reverse its decline. While more people are visiting
than before the project, and some are staying in the private homes adapted for visitors, many stay no longer
than a few hours and spend little money. Further assistance is needed to help residents of Signaghi attract
tourists and encourage them to spend more than a few hours exploring the sites.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The influence of factors within government's control on project outcomes has been substantial. The
unwillingness of government to provide its counterpart funds in a timely manner significantly delayed
works in several cases, making project planning and management very difficult. While the unplanned
contribution of the municipal government of Tbilisi to reinforce buildings on Erekle Street and to
rehabilitate infrastructure of Cotton Row and Iron Row is highly welcome, slow delivery of these funds has
delayed works and left contractors unpaid, disrupting implementation of the project. However, these delays
did not affect the overall quality of the works.




                                                      - 12 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The influence of factors subject to the control of the Fund on project outcomes has been highly significant
in a positive way. The competence, dedication, energy, and networking skills of the director? a respected
art historian and former professor at Tbilisi State University? and key Fund staff have been critical to the
success of the project. In addition to successfully implementing the project, on their own initiative the staff
of the Fund raised US$378,000 from donors other than the Bank. These included, among others, the New
Georgian Fund (funded with contributions from the TBC-Bank, Aldagi, Martin Bauer, United Georgian
Bank, Georgian Wine Services, and Georgian Trans Expedition), the Council of Europe, the Soros
Foundation, and the International Oil Corporation. As an indication of their dedication, the Fund staff have
been working without pay since the final project disbursement was made in September 2003.

Establishing a small, effective Fund was not easy. With guidance from the Bank, the Fund initially
comprised 20 full-time staff members, including a coordinator of the ERP, a public awareness officer, an
officer of management information systems, an architect, an engineer, a procurement officer, a sociologist,
and a social analysis assistant among others. Many of the functions the staff performed could have been
more effectively and efficiently carried out by firms or individual consultants contracted to undertake
specific tasks (for example, supervision of construction, financial management). In summer 2001, the
Bank informed the Fund that an extension of the closing date would not be possible without a reduction of
50 percent in its staff. Staff of the Fund were later cut to six as the project entered its final year, and nearly
all activities were complete.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The PAD estimated total project costs (including contingencies) to be US$4.97 million over three years.
The actual project costs over nearly six years totaled about US$4.91 million (US$3.54 million for the
investment component, which included 2.08 million for the pilot sites and 1.46 million for the ERP, and
US$1.37 million for the technical assistance component). Disbursements from the IDA credit total about
US$4.48 million, 100 percent of the credit.

Government counterpart funds to December 2003 are estimated to total US$431,150, or 9 percent of the
project costs. This is slightly less than the 10 percent estimated in the PAD.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

While sustainability of most project investments is likely, this is not true for all. With regard to the former,
a large majority of the funds provided under the ERP was used to rehabilitate churches and church
frescoes, murals, and other religious artifacts that had deteriorated during Georgia's years as part of the
Soviet Union. Most of these churches are now managed by church staff that protect and maintain the
buildings and church artifacts. The churches also have active congregations that provide funds and labor
for operations and maintenance. Another portion of the funds was used to improve the capacity of
state-operated museums to better store and maintain their treasures through procurement of specialized
equipment, installation of ventilation systems, and the like. Museum stakeholders, who on their own
initiative prepared and submitted the proposals to the Fund, are likely to make full use of the equipment and
the renovations. Many of the improvements at the pilot sites are also likely to be maintained. The
rehabilitations in Old Town, Tbilisi have stimulated significant private sector investment and the investors
are likely to either organize maintenance themselves or to demand that the city meet its obligations to do so.



                                                     - 13 -

Owners of defensive towers and other buildings in Shatili improved under the project can be expected to
maintain them, as they have since they were built in the tenth to twelfth centuries.

Less probable is proper maintenance of other improvements. The city-owned Wedding Palace in Signaghi
is rarely used, and already shows signs of deterioration. Encouragingly, a new grant-funded initiative
aimed at building on the achievements of the project will finance the operation of a visitor's center in the
Wedding Palace for the next two to three years, and will develop plans intended to assure its longer-term
sustainability. A visitor's center in Uplistsikhe lacks funds to open to the public. Road signs directing
visitors to important cultural sites have been vandalized and not replaced. The poor record so far with
sustaining these investments stems from the failure of the Fund to identify the sources of funding for
operations and maintenance in advance of undertaking the investments, and of the Bank to ensure that this
was done before approving the investment. Clearly road signs will need to be replaced over time. The
Fund should have made arrangements with the government entity responsible for maintaining road signs
before installing them. Likewise, the Fund should have reached agreement with the government on funding
needed to operate the visitors center before constructing it, should visitors fees prove insufficient. The
Fund is not solely responsible for the lack of maintenance at some sites. It did indeed obtain a commitment
from the mayor and community of Signaghi to maintain the sites. The commitment has been only partially
fulfilled.

Benefits of investments in capacity building and institutional strengthening are likely to be sustained. As
previously mentioned, skills people have acquired as a result of working for the Fund or on activities
financed under the ERP are already being used outside the project to strengthen the management and
promotion of cultural heritage.

The sustainability of the Fund, however, is in doubt, assuming that the Bank does not finance a follow-on
project. Despite its success in mobilizing finance from donors other than the Bank and from private
benefactors, the funds have not been sufficient to replace the Bank's financing. Sustainability of the Fund,
at least in the short term, thus appears to depend on government's commitment to continue funding
activities aimed at preserving and promoting Georgia's cultural heritage. Even if the Fund dissolves, the
skills of its staff will remain and will no doubt be employed in preserving cultural heritage through work
with other organizations.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Transition arrangements to regular operations had not been made at the time of the project's closing.
Although the former president of Georgia, other government officials, NGOs, and institutes have asked the
Bank to finance a follow-on cultural heritage and tourism project as a priority, decisions on whether to
move forward with the new project depend on the strategy of the new government. A follow-on project,
should one be approved, would be desirable to support the development of a realistic plan for ensuring the
sustainable flow of funds for the preservation and maintenance of cultural assets.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's overall performance in lending was satisfactory. The Bank's performance in identification was
satisfactory. Preserving and promoting of Georgia's rich cultural heritage was (and still is) important to
help revive Georgia's tourism industry, stimulate economic development in cities and towns, and create a
sense among citizens of a shared national identity. The project was designed in accordance with the lessons


                                                      - 14 -

learned from an IDF grant for the Cultural Heritage Initiative, which was nearly complete at the time the
project was identified.

The Bank's performance in preparation was marginally satisfactory. Preparation was rushed at just three
months and many elements of the design were not well developed. For example, the PAD states that funds
for investing in the pilot sites would be provided as grants to local authorities, yet little effort went into
exploring what would be required to make this work in practice. Ultimately the Bank and the government
concluded that the risks associated with inadequate procurement or financial management capacity by local
authorities and community groups were too high to implement this concept. No economic analysis was
prepared, a difficult challenge for a project supporting renovation of non-income generating assets. Still,
applying the techniques of economic analysis used for environmental projects may have guided investment
to sites with greater potential for tourism and larger numbers of residents that could benefit from
development than Shatili. As mentioned earlier, the monitoring indicators, which the government was
required to agree to as part of the Development Credit Agreement, were both too numerous and poorly
specified. More consultation on the monitoring indicators both within the Bank, and between the Bank and
the government may have led to agreement on a smaller set of more appropriate indicators. Clearer
specification of the technical assistance component also would have helped to prevent later disagreement
between the Bank and the Fund on what was needed and why.

The Bank's performance at appraisal was satisfactory. The Bank mobilized trust funds to assess the
groundwater problem in Old Tbilisi and appropriately linked investments in the area to its resolution. As a
condition of effectiveness, the Bank demanded that the government deposit in a bank account counterpart
funds for the first year of the project. This was appropriate, considering the government's poor track
record in providing counterpart funds. It also ensured through a condition of disbursement for the
reinforcement of the caravansary that a resettlement plan acceptable to IDA was adopted by the
government. Appraisal of implementation arrangements was satisfactory. Although autonomous PIUs are
often criticized because they are not truly part of the government structure, in Georgia they have proven far
more effective in implementing projects than government entities that are starved of funds and lack
highly-qualified staff. However, Bank guidance on the number and type of people that the Fund would
need was too specific, leading to more staff than the Fund could effectively deploy, and making it difficult
for the Fund to reduce staff when its needs shifted. The Bank should have suggested during appraisal that
the Fund keep its core staff small, and hire external consultants on a short-term basis to perform specific
tasks as needed. Estimates of project costs were reasonable. The use of a Learning and Innovation Loan
for the project was appropriate given the desire to experiment with a variety of approaches to preserve and
promote cultural heritage. More effort, however, should have been given to clearly articulating the
hypotheses that the project was exploring and to designing an M&E system capable of testing them. The
Bank also should have carried out a realistic assessment of sustainability and ensured that the project
included sufficient assistance to the Fund in preparing a sustainability plan

7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance in supervision was marginally satisfactory. The Bank fielded ten supervision missions
during the project's nearly six years of implementation. Missions took place every six months during
1998­2000, once a year during 2001 and 2002, and again every six months in 2003. Missions lasted about
two weeks each and typically comprised three or more members, including foreign and local consultants
investigating a wide range of technical and operational issues. During the early years, supervision missions
focused primarily on issues of project management, procurement, financial management, reporting, and
Fund staffing. The focus later shifted to design and quality of works. Very little policy dialogue on how to
make financing of cultural heritage preservation and maintenance more sustainable and how to promote



                                                      - 15 -

tourism took place throughout the period the project was being implemented. Only during the last two
years of project implementation did attention shift to issues of sustainability and community development.
The Bank team responded to the needs of the client by coordinating closely with the Bank-supported
Municipal Development Fund to ensure that work on the underground water system in Old Tbilisi was
completed quickly. It also mobilized a Norwegian Trust Fund for community-based participatory action
planning in Signaghi to help the community find ways to make use of its restored cultural heritage to
generate tourism.

Early project supervision however was hampered by several problems. Members of different missions on
one or two occasions provided the Fund with conflicting advice. For example, a mission in 1999
recommended that the allocation for investment in the Sighnaghi pilot site be reduced from US$567,800 to
about US$150,000 on the grounds that tourism potential in Sighnaghi may not be as large as other places.
While the argument had merit, challenging the design after the Development Credit Agreement was signed
was inappropriate, and undermined the credibility of the Bank in Georgia. In the face of objections by the
government to the proposed change, renovations in Signaghi proceeded with a reduction in funding to about
US$380,000. Different missions also provided conflicting messages on the design of the Neighborhood
Fund. Although agreement had been reached with the Bank during negotiations that the funds would be
provided as grants, one mission in 1999 argued that the Bank should not finance rehabilitation of private
property without substantial cost sharing by owners. The Fund subsequently developed a proposal to
establish a revolving fund that would provide loans for renovations to households that could afford to repay
them. The Bank then again reversed its position, arguing that involving a financial intermediary at this
stage would be too complex and was not part of the agreed project design. This too undermined the
credibility of the Bank. The lack of continuity of task team leaders was, however, the primary cause of
confusion. The project had three task team leaders during its life, each with different interests and ideas.

The project was rated satisfactory at all times during implementation. The project included a midterm
review, which resulted in improved implementation and faster disbursement, but no fundamental changes in
project design.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In lending, the Bank responded to the government's
request for assistance in better managing cultural heritage first by obtaining an IDF grant, then by
designing a project drawing on the lessons of the IDF grant and of experiences in other countries. It chose
the best available Bank instrument for the credit, the Learning and Innovation Loan, given the project's
small size and experimental nature. Preparation was not as thorough as it could have been, due to its short
timetable, which caused some problems later. Supervision created some confusion at times, due to
conflicting messages of different missions on various aspects of project design. Although the lack of
continuity of task team leaders further contributed to strain, each of the task team leaders paid close
attention to the details of project implementation such as, procurement and financial management, which
contributed to the quality of the project. During the later years of project implementation, more attention
was paid to issues of community development and of sustainability.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. The government worked closely with the
Bank team to forge a common vision of development based on the preservation of cultural heritage and to
devise a number of experiments that would help demonstrate effective approaches. It proved its



                                                     - 16 -

commitment to the project by successfully implementing the IDF grant, by establishing the Georgian
Cultural Revival Board and the Fund for Cultural Heritage (the Fund), and by enacting key pieces of
legislation to protect cultural heritage.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The borrower's performance in implementation was satisfactory. The government continued to support the
objectives of the project in many ways. A department in the President's Office, whose head was a member
of the Georgian Cultural Revival Board, was given the responsibility for coordinating the activities of the
Fund. The president himself chaired the Board. The government also highlighted the project during
President Wolfensohn's visit in 1999, taking him to several of the project sites.

Unfortunately, after a good start, the government failed to continue to provide counterpart funds in a timely
manner, a problem affecting nearly all donor-funded projects in Georgia. This disrupted implementation of
works at several stages and delayed payments to contractors. This likely raised costs of works, as
contractors nearly always increase the costs of contracts to compensate for the risks of delayed payment.
The government also failed to enact the draft Law on Sponsorship and Charity in the Sphere of Culture.
Private sector involvement in preserving cultural assets is therefore lower than it could be if the draft were
enacted into law.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. Implementation started slowly. The Fund
took time to recruit staff and become fully conversant with the Bank's procurement, financial management,
reporting, and other procedures. The Fund also spent some months focusing on fine tuning operational
agreements and procedures and proposing a series of amendments to the Development Credit Agreement.
The pace of implementation picked up once training was complete and the Fund reached agreement with the
Bank on any remaining issues.

In the early years of project implementation, one management issue concerned the hiring as staff several
people whose services could have been provided on an as-needed basis through short-term consultant
assignments. In some cases, the Fund employed people whose skills were not well matched to the tasks
they were hired to perform, particularly with regard to the supervisor of basic design and construction.
Some of these problems were resolved once the Fund substantially reduced its staff in response to the
Bank's direction. Fund staff remuneration and operating expenses comprised about 20 percent of the total
project cost, which is high but acceptable considering the complexity of the project.

Despite its slow start, the Fund proved to be highly effective in implementing the project. In large part, this
was due to the competence, energy, and commitment of its director and key technical staff, who dealt
effectively with changing Bank task teams and with considerable pressures from the government and others
with an interest in the field of cultural heritage. Staff anticipated early on that problems with counterpart
funding could arise and requested that the Development Credit Agreement be amended to allow the project
to finance 100 percent of the civil works of the ERP and the Neighborhood Fund. They also persistently
pursued the counterpart funds through letters and phone calls to the Ministry of Finance, the president of
Georgia, and others with influence. They coordinated effectively with the Bank-financed Municipal
Development Fund to ensure that the underground water problem was resolved before rehabilitation in Old
Tbilisi started. They also coordinated closely with the municipal government as a partner in the project.
They raised over US$378,000 from donors and benefactors other than the Bank to preserve and restore
cultural artifacts. They created and sustained a network of individuals and groups interested in cultural



                                                      - 17 -

heritage. They also actively promoted the involvement of cultural heritage committees in planning
development in their communities on the basis of its cultural assets.

While issues with sustainability remain, the Fund staff over time started to pay increasing attention to this
issue. They gave considerable weight in their initial review of the proposals to the ERP to plans for
operation and maintenance of the investments. They also insisted that the local authorities and cultural
heritage committees of the pilot sites prepare plans for sustainability as a condition of support. They
performed less well in situations where operations and maintenance required the involvement of central
government agencies rather than local authorities and communities. They never discussed with the relevant
transportation authorities a strategy for maintaining and replacing road signs indicating cultural and
historical sites. They did not secure funding from the government to operate the visitors center in
Uplistsikhe. Although they actively pursued solutions, they did not succeed in developing a sustainability
plan to secure the future of the Fund in the absence of a follow-on Bank project. While a sustainability
plan was not a planned output of the project, the Bank during implementation emphasized this issue.
However, no funds were available to cover technical assistance to support staff of the Fund in developing
such a plan.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the borrower was satisfactory. The government demonstrated its commitment
to the broad objectives of the project and its approach from identification to completion, although it did not
always provide its counterpart funds in a timely manner. The implementing agency also performed
satisfactorily. The Fund successfully implemented the project in close coordination with other entities with
responsibilities and interests in cultural heritage, such as the Department of Monument Protection within
the Ministry of Culture. It carried out the agreed studies and implemented the training program. It handled
procurement in accordance with Bank guidelines. Compliance with relevant Bank safeguard policies was
satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

While using autonomous PIUs to implement projects is controversial, doing so helps in achieving
positive outcomes in environments with poor governance and weak institutions. PIUs create structures
parallel to those of the government and distort local pay scales. They are however able to attract
highly-qualified staff and provide training, equipment, and operating funds, which are necessary to
effectively and efficiently implement projects.

Finding a way to make the Fund financially self-sustaining would increase the likelihood that project
outcomes would be sustained and deepened. In the absence of clear central government commitment to
replace Bank funds with its own, or the ability of the Fund to mobilize funds from international or Georgian
donors, the Fund is likely to dissolve, and the focus it brings to preserving cultural heritage lost. Several
other Funds in Georgia (the Social Investment Fund and the Municipal Development Fund) have
established mechanisms that allow them to be financially self-sustaining. These experiences may be able to
provide models for the Fund. Expectations for success should however be modest (see next paragraph).

Preserving cultural heritage is largely a public good, which requires a long-term commitment of the
government or its development partners for funding. Although scope exists for raising funds through
entrance fees and through contributions of private benefactors, in all countries much of the funding for the
preservation of cultural heritage comes from the government. The preservation of cultural heritage in
Georgia will likely need long-term support of the government and its development partners, especially as



                                                       - 18 -

the country lacks sites such as Angkor Wat in Cambodia that international tourists are willing to pay
significant amounts to visit.

Demand-driven approaches that allow communities throughout the nation to benefit from the project
help in building popular support for the preservation of cultural heritage, especially when the process of
selecting projects is transparent. The Emergency Rehabilitation Program proved to be a highly popular
approach for preserving cultural heritage, and helped to focus the nation's attention on both the richness of
Georgia's legacy and on the need to protect it. This has helped to create the image among many
government officials and citizens of Georgia that the Cultural Heritage Project was the most successful
Bank-supported project in the country.

A program offering grants for home improvements to some private homeowners but not to others is likely
to be divisive. Many homes in Georgia are in poor condition. People whose homes were in poor condition
but were not eligible for a grant under the Neighborhood Fund Program had difficulty understanding why
they did not also deserve support. Offering loans or matching grants instead of grants would have helped
improve the perception of the subproject as fair.

Comprehensively upgrading historic facades, streets, sidewalks, parks, water systems, and other
elements of the urban environment induces private sector investment, especially in cities and towns that
are already attracting investment. As in cities around the world, the investments in Old Town, Tbilisi
have attracted substantial private investment to upgrade historic buildings and to operate shops, cafes,
restaurants, hotels, and other businesses.

Monitoring and evaluation systems must be carefully designed to ensure that monitoring efforts produce
data that are useful in assessing project outcomes and impact. Although the project included substantial
resources for monitoring and evaluation, performance indicators were poorly specified, and plans for
monitoring them could not be implemented. Ultimately, the list of performance indicators was revised and
shortened, which made monitoring feasible. Choosing appropriate monitoring indicators and implementing
systems that truly allow project outcomes to be assessed during its life is a challenge that requires special
expertise.

Mobilizing communities in designing and implementing activities of the project proved effective in both
protecting cultural assets and in building social capital. At all pilot sites, cultural heritage committees
and other community groups provided meals and assistance to contractors working at the pilot sites. At
some sites, they acted as watchdogs, reporting acts of illegal construction and vandalism. In Sighnaghi,
they helped bring people together to formulate action plans for the development of community-based
cultural tourism. In Shatili, they mobilized private funding to continue work restoring towers and adapting
towers for guests. Some community groups raised funds on their own initiative to finance additional stages
of work. Significantly, in some communities, cultural heritage committees brought together members of
different ethnic groups to work together on a common project. Observers believe this has helped in
building social cohesion in such villages.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Ministry of Finance of Georgia has reviewed and discussed this Implementation Completion Report in
draft form and agreed with its main findings (see Annex 9). See also Annex 8 - Evaluation Report from the
Fund for Preservation of Cultural Heritage of Georgia dated November 12, 2003.



                                                    - 19 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not Applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not Applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                             - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of sites restored with project             N/A                                      60 sites have been fully or partially restored
assistance
Number of tourists/visitors to Uplistcikhe pilot Increase to 14,000 visitors in 2004 from  22,000 in 2003
site                                              10,500 in 1998
Number of tourists/visitors to Shatili pilot site N/A                                      Increase to 1,200 visitors in 2003 from 250 in
                                                                                           1999
Number of tourists/visitors to Signaghi pilot     N/A                                      Increase to 1,000 visitors in 2003 from 450 in
site                                                                                       1999
Number of cultural heritage related activities, Increase to 450 in 2004 from 160 in 1998   650
such as promotion, festivals, concerts
Number of cultural heritage projects financed Increase to 30 in 2004 from 18 in 1998       70
by the private sector
Number of NGOs working in the cultural            Increase to 35 in 2004 from 17 in 1998   120
heritage field
Number of community-based cultural                4                                        4
heritage committees operating effectively at
the end of the project
Number of media activities related to cultural Increase to 250 in 2004 from 0 in 1998      380
heritage


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
PILOT SITES
Old Town, Tbilisi restoration completed           N/A                                      Phases 1 and 2 are complete. The buildings
                                                                                           and streets restored include:
                                                                                           N. Baratashvili Museum, Jvaris Mama
                                                                                           Church, Tbilisi History Museum, Gobelin
                                                                                           (Tapestry) Museum, Chardin Street (18
                                                                                           buildings), Erekle II Street (13 buildings),
                                                                                           Sioni Street (8 buildings)
Number of buildings in Old Town fitted with       N/A                                      78, including 36 through the Neighborhood
gutters and drain pipes                                                                    Fund
Signaghi: Rehabilitation of Wedding Palace,       N/A                                      The restoration is complete. The buildings
archeology museum, and other structures                                                    and streets restored include:
complete                                                                                   St Nino's Church at Bodbe, Wedding Palace
                                                                                           at 6, Kostava Street. Sighnaghi
                                                                                           Archaeological-Ethnographic Museum,
                                                                                           Dodashvili square, St. Stephen's Church,
                                                                                           and Sarajishvili, Dadiani, Saradjishvili, and
                                                                                           Lolashvili streets
Number of buildings in Signaghi fitted with       N/A                                      37
gutters and drain pipes (through the ERP)
Uplistcikhe: site management plan and             N/A                                      The site management plan and interpretation
interpretation center completed                                                            center were completed. Many of the
                                                                                           recommendations of the site management
                                                                                           plan have been put into practice. The
                                                                                           interpretation center was not in operation at
                                                                                           the end of the project due to lack of funds.
Fees collected at Uplistcikhe pilot site          Increase to 6,500 GEL in 2004 from 4,500 7,500 GEL
                                                  GEL in 1998
Shatili: renovation of historic towers and        N/A                                      Renovations of 29 towers, a historic brewery,
retrofitting of folk hotels completed                                                      meeting hall and other buildings, were
                                                                                           completed. Eight folk hotels were created in
                                                                                           the towers.
Community-based site management                   N/A                                      Four community-based site management




                                                                    - 21 -

programs in two pilot sites operational                         plans, one for each of the pilot sites, were
                                                                prepared with extensive community input.
EMERGENCY REHABILITATION
PROGRAM (ERP)
Three competitions completed                   N/A              Six competitions completed, comprising 58
                                                                projects that saved over 100 cultural assets
Archive collection and conservation improved N/A                19 museums, archives, and related facilities
                                                                have improved their capacity to archive and
                                                                conserve historic documents, tapestries, and
                                                                other material. Examples of renovations
                                                                include: Reconstruction of the "Golden Fund"
                                                                (Treasure) of the State Museum of Fine Arts
                                                                of Georgia, rehabilitation of Poet's Museum,
                                                                the Gobelin (Tapestry) Museum, and the
                                                                State Archives of Film and Photo
                                                                Documentation, and the creation of the
                                                                Architectural Heritage Archives Database.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Groundwater feasibility study for Old Town     N/A              The study was completed and used to guide
completed                                                       investments in the water system for Old
                                                                Town (under finance from the Municipal
                                                                Development Fund) and in restoration of
                                                                buildings and infrastructure in Old Town.
Cultural Heritage PIU and local municipalities N/A              Training in project management (including
strengthened                                                    financial management, procurement,
                                                                community mobilization, and others)
                                                                permitted the Fund to implement the project
                                                                effectively and to assist other culture-related
                                                                institutions develop similar skills. Training in
                                                                economic evaluation did not take place.
Public awareness campaign raises               N/A              Many events were reported in the media and
awareness of the importance of cultural                         through events. No survey data exist to
heritage                                                        demonstrate the extent to which public
                                                                awareness was raised, but it is certain the
                                                                messages reached a large proportion of the
                                                                population. This is demonstrated through the
                                                                large numbers of groups applying for funds
                                                                through the ERP, which was advertised with
                                                                the help of the public awareness team.
Integrated Conservation Master Plan            N/A              The Master Plan was developed and is being
completed                                                       used as a guiding document by the City
                                                                Architectural Service and Cultural Heritage
                                                                Sub-Committee of the Parliament of Georgia.


1End of project




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Investment                                                   2.76            3.54            1.28
Technical Assistance                                         1.19            1.37            0.86

Total Baseline Cost                                          3.95            4.91
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.59
 Price Contingencies                                         0.43
                        Total Project Costs                  4.97            4.91
                  Total Financing Required                   4.97            4.91


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.54              0.61         2.11         0.00          3.26
                                  (0.49)           (0.55)      (1.87)         (0.00)       (2.91)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.07         0.05         0.00          0.12
                                  (0.00)           (0.06)      (0.04)         (0.00)       (0.10)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00         1.59          1.59
Technical Assistance              (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (1.48)       (1.48)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Project Preparation            0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
Facility (PPF)                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.54              0.68         2.16         1.59          4.97
                                  (0.49)           (0.61)      (1.91)         (1.48)       (4.49)




                                                - 23 -

 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Procurement Method1
                                                                                                    Opera-
    Expenditure          ICB                         International National          Consulting      tional       Total Cost
      Category                           NCB
                                                      Shopping        Shopping        services     expenses
   1. Works             0.00             0.36              0.00          2.67            0.00         0.00            3.03
                       (0.00)            (0.28)          (0.00)         (2.40)          (0.00)       (0.00)          (2.68)
   2. Goods             0.00             0.00              0.12          0.08            0.00         0.00            0.20
                       (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.10)         (0.07)          (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.17)
   3. Technical         0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00            1.21         0.00            1.21
   assistance
                       (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (1.21)       (0.00)          (1.21)
   4.                   0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00            0.00         0.47            0.47
   Miscellaneous
   (operational
   expenses)
                       (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.42)          (0.42)
   5. PPF               0.00             0.00              0.00          0.00            0.00         0.00            0.00
                       (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.00)
      Total                              0.35              0.12          2.76            1.21         0.47            4.91
                                         (0.29)          (0.10)         (2.46)          (1.21)       (0.42)          (4.48)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank         Govt.       CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Investment                                               0.00        3.19         0.35       0.00                           0.0
Technical Assistance                                     0.00        1.29         0.08       0.00                           0.0
TOTAL                                                    0.00        4.48         0.43       0.00                           0.0




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 1997              1    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              December 1997             5    PROGRAM TEAM
                                             LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1);
                                             OPERATIONAL ANALYST
                                             (1);
                                              CULTURAL RESOURCE
                                             SPECIALIST (1)


 Supervision
              May 1998                  4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ARCHITECT-PLANNER
                                             (1);
                                             SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1);
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST (RM) (1)

              November 1998             3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             ARCHITECT/PLANNER (1);
                                             ARCHITECT (1)
              May 1999                  4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             CONSULTANT/OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             PROJECT TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ARCHITECT/URBAN
                                             PLANNER (1)
              September 1999            1    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)           S               S
              December 1999             4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT/OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1)
              March 2000                7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                             URBAN MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1);
                                             SENIOR SANITARY
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT




                                              - 26 -

                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            CULTURAL RESOURCE
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
               September 2000          5    TASK TEAM                         S    S
                                            LEADER/SENIOR
                                            ARCHITECT (1);
                                            CONSULTANT/OPERATIONS
                                            ANALYST (1);
                                            PUB. SECTOR
                                            MANAGEMENT (1);
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            FINANCL MGT
                                            CONSULTANT (1)
               February 2001           1    TASK TEAM                         S    S
                                            LEADER/SENIOR
                                            ARCHITECT (1)
               March 2002              2    TEAM LEADER, SOC. DEV.            S    S
                                            (1); ARCHITECT (1)
               May 2003                1    CULTURAL HERITAGE, CDD            S    S
                                            (1)

 ICR
               November 2003          3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            ARCHITECT-PLANNER
                                            (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            16.3                           45.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   9.3                          38.0
  Supervision                           99.9                         440.6
  ICR                                     9.4                          71.2
  Total                                134.9                         595.2




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document (No. 17275-GE)
2. Development Credit Agreement (Cr. 3040-GE)
3. Operational Manual (April 25, 1998, revised and amended January 31, 2001)
3. Project Supervision Reports
4. Mission Aide Memoires




                                                 - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Evaluation Report: Fund for Preservation of Cultural Heritage of
Georgia

Background

The 1990s was the most difficult period for the cultural heritage of Georgia. Cataclysms, economic crisis,
and civil wars caused by the collapse of the Soviet Union largely affected ancient cultural heritage of the
country. The models and mechanisms, regulating the sphere to a certain extent in the past, became obsolete.
Being in the process of transition, the country failed to mobilize internal resources for this sphere. Georgia
applied some new approaches to cultural heritage management. It was even before the accession of Georgia
to the Council of Europe (CoE) that the decision to adopt western models and schemes for safeguarding
cultural heritage had been made.

Eduard Shevardnadze, the President of Georgia, while being on an official visit in Strasbourg, requested the
World Bank (WB) and the Council of Europe to render assistance to the State Programme for Cultural
Heritage Preservation. He noted that this initiative would serve as a model of successful cooperation
between the international institutions.

The World Bank and the Council of Europe supported this request following which a project "Cultural
Heritage Initiative" was incepted. The project was funded by the WB grant. This was the first CH project
funded by the WB.

The Project jointly undertaken by the Government of Georgia, the World Bank and the Council of Europe
lasting for 18 months was successfully completed. It was highly evaluated by the WB and the CoE experts.
The project prepared fruitful ground for the initiation of a larger project.

Acknowledging the value and potential of the country not only for stimulating national identity and social
cohesion, but for developing tourism as well, the Government of Georgia requested a long-term funding for
the State Program for Cultural Heritage Preservation in the form of the Learning and Innovation Loan
(LIL). A new CHP was institutionally based on the former CHI functioning under the IDF grant from
1996.

On February 18, 1998, the Development Credit Agreement was signed between the Government of Georgia
and the International Development Association (IDA) in Washington D.C, through which the World Bank
allotted the credit of USD 4.5 million in the form of a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL). The
contribution of the Government of Georgia was USD 480,000. On May 12, 1998, the DCA was ratified by
the Parliament of Georgia. This was the first LIL of the World Bank in the region and the first independent
CH project of the WB.

The Project continued to collaborate with the Cultural Heritage Department of the Council of Europe. The
"Specific Action Plan" for Georgia was drawn up. The basic objective of the Project was to rescue the
endangered cultural heritage properties and test new approaches of management in preservation and
conservation of cultural heritage. Considering the nature of the LIL, one of the most important project
components dealt with the promotion of changes relevant to the emerging market economy. The changes
refer to the institutional framework, fund-raising, mentality, public responsibility, stimulation of private
investments, etc.




                                                     - 31 -

The period of the implementation of the Project supported by the LIL with the amount of USD 4.5 million
loan initially was 3 years (1998-2001). The Government of Georgia and the World Bank agreed to extend
the Project until the end of the year 2003. Under the Presidential Decree #377, the Fund for the
Preservation of Cultural Heritage of Georgia is responsible for the Project implementation.

Project Design

The Cultural Heritage Project consisted of the two main components: (a) investment component and (b)
technical assistance component.

         Investment Component

         Emergency Repair Program (ERP)

The ERP aimed at safeguarding endangered cultural heritage properties and covering various areas of
cultural heritage all over Georgia appeared to be one of the most effective and visible programs of the
Project. It had nation-wide effect, which is attested by a big number of the applications (113) submitted in
4 competitions. In all, the ERP supported 58 projects. This form of investment proved to be most effective
and popular. It was a demand-driven and competition-based program. Project proposals submitted to the
program were evaluated and selected against special criteria, by the Georgian Culture Revival Board
comprised of 52 members and chaired by the President of Georgia. Management of the selected projects
(selection of contractors through tenders, supervision, evaluation) was undertaken by the Fund. This
program was financed as grant. For the purposes of the ERP, four main (3 in PAD) and two additional
project competitions were held.

         I.    Competition was held in 1999 January - 6 project proposals were selected
         II.   Competition was held in 1999 July - 14 project proposals were selected
         III.  Competition was held in 2000 June - 12 project proposals were selected
         IV.   Competition was held in 2000 December - 12 project proposals were selected
         V.    Additional competition was held in 2000 November - 5 project proposals were selected
         VI.   Additional competition was held in 2001 September - 5 project proposals were selected

The selected projects were approved under the Presidential Orders (#988 dated September 12,2000, #1326
dated December 12, 2000 and #932 dated September 11, 2001).

Four of the short-listed projects were split up into two separate projects based on their proposed objectives
(e.g. conservation of the architecture and the mural paintings of the same church, construction works and
purchase of goods for the same beneficiary, etc.)

Out of the 58 projects implemented under ERP (14 in PAD), 33 projects addressed conservation of
architecture; 5 - of mural paintings, 3 projects dealt with archaeology, 4 projects were related to folk music
and 13 projects implied support to archives and collections and improvement of their storage conditions.

Twenty-four projects were completed on schedule and on budget; 7 projects were completed on schedule;
with additional funding (contingencies envisaged in the ERP total budget); 16 projects were completed on
budget, but with extension;11 projects were completed with additional funding and extension. Each change
of schedule or budget was based on the supervisor's rapport, discussed by the Technical Group and special
confirmation of the FD.




                                                      - 32 -

ERP proved to be very popular national-wide, as the sub-projects were implemented almost in every region
of Georgia; besides, the population around the sites participated in the physical works and thus the program
had positive social-economical effect.

         Four Pilot Projects

Another component of the Project dealt with the four pilot projects: Old Tbilisi (the Zemo Kala District),
Shatili, Sighnaghi and Uplistikhe. These projects envisaged restoration/rehabilitation of pilot sites and
setting grounds for their sustainable development. The projects were divided into 2 phases: phase 1
included small emergency works while phase 2 was aimed at the development of project concepts and
implementation of works on their basis. The World Bank covered eighty percent of the costs associated
with the pilot projects, while twenty percent was provided by the Government of Georgia. The civil works
carried out under the "Small Repair Works Program" (the so-called" Neighborhood Fund") were fully
financed by the World Bank.

The Tbilisi Pilot Project supported 14 sub-projects, the Signaghi Pilot Project ­ 9 sub-projects, the Shatili
Pilot Project ­ 3 sub-projects and the Uplistikhe - 3 sub-projects. Apart from this, Tbilisi and Sighnaghi
benefited from the program of the "Neighborhood Fund".

The Sustainable Development Concepts, elaborated for each of the pilot projects by specially hired
consultants, which also served as a Site Management Plans and provided basis for actual conservation
works in second phases, were very important for the planning and implementation of the activities on this
sites. The Concepts addressed diverse aspects, such as site history, environmental analyses, assessment of
present condition, identification of problems and priorities, selection of most endangered areas,
recommendations for site interventions, tourism development, economic assessment, recommendations for
maintenance, and cost estimates.

The programs of Pilot Sites were based on social surveys and involved community participation.

Within the framework of the Pilot Projects, mainly architectural sub-projects were implemented. However,
they also included infrastructure improvement activities, improving of preservation conditions in museums,
and development of tourist infrastructure, etc.

As a result of these projects, the environment surrounding the sites was significantly improved and this, on
its own, resulted in increase of the interest from the private investors and tourist agencies. The local
community also revealed increased interest in safeguarding their cultural resources.

         Technical Assistance

         Institutional Building, Capacity Building, Training, Study Tours

Legislation. The Fund for Culture made a significant contribution to the institutional building in the
cultural heritage sphere through the improvement of the cultural heritage legislation. Fund for Culture
experts took an active part in drafting the Law "On Cultural Heritage Protection" and facilitated its
adoption by the Parliament of Georgia. This law, which regulates institutional arrangements in the cultural
heritage sphere, promoted needed reforms. In addition, the Fund for Culture experts drafted several other
important laws relating to cultural heritage, such as the laws "On Export and Import of Cultural
Properties"(adopted on June 22, 2001), "On Museums" (adopted on June 22, 2001), "On Archaeology,"


                                                     - 33 -

"On Sponsorship and Charity in the Sphere of Culture," "On Territorial-Spatial Construction - Urban
Planning," and "On the Amendments to the Law on Cultural Heritage Protection."

Of special note is the draft Law on "Sponsorship and Charity in the Sphere of Culture" providing for tax
incentives to engender greater involvement of the private sector in cultural heritage activities. If adopted,
this Law will promote serious developments in this area.

During the elaboration of the above-mentioned laws, the Fund's experts studied the experience of the
European legislation through the Technical Assistance extended by the CoE.

These laws facilitated significant reforms in institutional building relating to cultural heritage preservation.

         Capacity Building

The Fund was strengthened in every aspect of its activities. The staff developed its professional skills
through improving knowledge of World Bank guidelines, regulations, and procurement procedures; and
gained profound experience in preparing tender documentation and Terms of References, as well as in
conducting tenders. If the initial stage of the implementation (submission of the project proposals,
tendering etc) took more time than expected owing to the lack of knowledge of World Bank procurement
guidelines, the process was facilitated beginning from Spring 1999. The Fund specialists succeeded in
attracting the best specialists in the field to carry out Project activities.

Special training program aimed at capacity building in tourism sector, and addressing economic
assessment, planning, fund raising, etc was elaborated and submitted to the World Bank, but was not
supported. Instead, due to lack of time and urgent need for elaborating mechanisms for sustainability, it
was decided to organize a study tour to the United Kingdom. It is noteworthy that the Monument Protection
Department also participated in and benefited from this tour.

Study tours to Lisbon and Strasbourg, undertaken by the Fund's experts working on the issues related to
Old Town rehabilitation, were supported by the CoE. The representatives of the Ministry of Culture also
participated in these study tours.

Training courses were conducted aimed at the capacity building of the PIU, namely on General
Management, Procurement, Monitoring, the English language, computer skills, GIS, SPSS,, PageMaker,
and Community Participation.

The Fund for Culture provided technical assistance to specialists from different institutions in areas such as
conducting tenders and procurement procedures, as well as in the application of GIS, creation of thematic
maps, engineering assessment of the culturally important structures, and conducting inventories.

The Fund for Culture provided training to the specialists of the Institute of Manuscripts in managing the
climatic equipment installed under the ERP sub-project aimed at the improvement of storage conditions for
the rich manuscript collection.

Local authorities and communities also benefited from the project-financed training in cultural heritage
preservation issues, planning of the conservation activities, and preparing project proposals.

The Fund for Culture also provided technical assistance to the representatives of the recently established
World Bank-financed Cultural Heritage Project Implementation Units (PIUs) in Rumania, Armenia, and


                                                       - 34 -

Azerbaijan. Their representatives visited Tbilisi and received advice and recommendations from Fund for
Culture experts, who shared their own experience with the foreign counterparts.

         Public Awareness

The Fund for Culture carried out numerous activities to raise public awareness of cultural heritage through
the mass-media. For example, articles were published and TV shots were produced and televised as social
advertisements on leading Georgian TV channels. The Fund for Culture regularly published information on
its activities to ensure maximum transparency of its operation. Articles regarding various cultural heritage
preservation issues and monuments were also published. Series of programs on the history of Georgian
culture (educational program) was broadcasted by the State Radio Broadcasting Company. The Fund for
Culture also commissioned six video-films.
.
A bilingual booklet, English- and Georgian-language journals and a newsletter Sarkmeli (insertion to the
daily newspaper Dilis Gazeti) were published.

The Fund for Culture website was developed (www.culturalheritage.ge).

On November 16, 2002 the Fund for Culture arranged an exhibition in the State Museum of Fine Arts of
Georgia to present the work carried out under its projects. Mr. Shevardnadze, the President of Georgia, as
well as the members of the Government, the Parliament, relevant organizations, scholarly institutions and
community groups attended the presentation and gave a high opinion to the work carried out by the Fund
for Culture.

Several ERP sub-projects served similar purposes, e.g. the "National Folk Musical Instruments Data bank"
CDs were produced and are on sale; CD-s made within the frames of "Golden Fund of Georgian Radio"
were used by the Television and Radio broadcasting, the materials of the sub-project "Aralo- authentic
Georgian folk songs".

Video-clips, designed and commissioned by the Fund, have been broadcasted on Channel 1 of the State
Television Broadcasting Company.

Arrangement of festivals, concerts, art competitions, educational program for schools etc envisaged in
PAD was not possible due to small funds allocated for the PA component.

In collaboration with ICOMOS Georgia and the Monument Protection Department, the Fund for Culture
launched a public awareness campaign (exhibitions, conferences, articles in media etc.) aiming at
prevention of illegal constructions in old Tbilisi and at mobilizing communities for this purpose. The results
of this campaign are already visible.

An exhibition demonstrating the outcomes of the survey carried out by the Fund for Culture in the Kala
District was held in the building of the Embassy of Belgium in Strasbourg. The Fund for Culture arranged
several exhibitions on Georgian monuments (Mtskheta, Jerusalem, Tbilisi ­ old town problems).

As a result of the Fund's activities, numerous articles on cultural heritage in the Georgian press and TV
channels increased as well.




                                                     - 35 -

         MIS and Monitoring

MIS and Monitoring system was elaborated by a World Bank-financed consultant and carried out by Fund
for Culture experts. It must be noted that some of the monitoring indicators given in the PAD appeared to
be inadequate to the Project activities, and therefore were late revised in collaboration with the Project
Team. In the course of Project implementation, it appeared that the proposed MIS system was not flexible
enough and may be amended for more efficient use. In the future, the M&E system as well as the key
performance indicators and log-frame will need to be more carefully designed.

         Community Participation

One of the main objectives of the Cultural Heritage Project was to increase community involvement in
cultural heritage activities.

The Fund for Culture set up local Cultural Heritage Committees in Old Tbilisi, Shatili, Sighnaghi, and
Uplistsikhe. During the meetings, the Fund for Culture experts trained the members of the committees in
different issues related to cultural heritage preservation, and highlighted the importance of involving
communities in planning, decision-making, and implementation processes.

It must be mentioned that the Georgian people have always cared for their cultural heritage which they
view as an essential part of their life. Their interest in their heritage has never faded, as confirmed by the
social surveys carried out by the Fund for Culture.

Although the public's attitude toward and interest in cultural heritage has not faded in the last ten years, the
economic situation in the country has changed. Thus, the Government fails to provide for the management
of cultural heritage preservation, and communities living in very poor economic conditions are unable to
provide even smallest funds. Even private owners of the historic properties cannot afford their
maintenance, although the Law obliges them to do so. In many cases, these property owners are forced to
sell their properties.

In the last three years of the Fund for Culture's operation, local communities revealed a distinct interest in
and eagerness towards the Project and participated both in planning and implementation processes.

Among the 126 applications submitted to the ERP, 46 were submitted by local communities (including
religious groups) and NGOs. They undertook the labor of finding the consultants to fill in the application
form and then indicate the scope of work and budget.

There were many instances when local communities helped contractors by assisting in constructing
scaffoldings, cleaning construction areas, and providing food to workers, etc. In the village of Azmana
where the ERP Project was implemented (ERP- 4-01), the local community consisting of different ethnic
groups (Armenians, Georgians) helped the constructors in every possible way. They volunteered to
participate in construction works and archeological excavations, supplied construction workers with
materials and food; and remained interested in the completed works. Their activity was determined on the
basis of two factors: (a) they care for the cultural heritage general, and (b) they hope that the restored sites
will attract more visitors and hence, improve their economic condition. The local community undertook the
task of the maintaining the site in the future.

Local communities also carried out similar activities at several other sites, including: Urbnisi, Kintsvisi,
Chajashi, Nikozi, Tigva, Zugdidi, Gelati, Mravaldzali, Sighnaghi, and Shatili. In Racha, the mountain


                                                      - 36 -

region of West Georgia, the local community set up a private society "Mravaldzali" aiming at raising funds
for continuing the restoration works on Mravaldzali church after the Fund finishes the ERP Project. The
society works in close relation with the Fund.

In the region of South Ossetia the community of the village Ikorta, both Ossetians and Georgians,
submitted the application to ERP and addressed the Fund with a joint letter requesting financing for the
conservation works of the church, as it is the mutual worship place for all of them. They promised to take
care of this CH resource together. During the implementation of this project, the entire community of
Ossetians and Georgians actively participated side by side in the construction works.

At the four Pilot Sites, the local Committees have been set up to participate in elaboration of the programs,
decision making, and supervision. Local Committees in Tbilisi and Sighnaghi participated in preparation
and performance of the "Neighborhood Funds."

The Shatili community was particularly active. They participated in every stage of project development
and elaboration of the Site Management Plan (Shatili sustainability Concept); took part in construction
works both for salary and free of charge, and participated in carrying out the social investigation in Shatili
(most of the owners of the towers live in Shatili only for short time, so the community group found these
people, delivered the questionnaires, etc.). The Committee participated in elaboration of the Museum
program in Shatili, provided items of old furniture and fittings. Due to the Fund's activities, the community
arranged several guest-houses. They are now setting up a "Coordination committee" for coordination of
the tourist visits to Shatili. They raised funds for constructing a bridge, for rehabilitation of school and
hydro power station; elaborate program for folk crafts.

The Sighnaghi Local Committee participated in short-listing the historic houses for the "Neighborhood
Fund" program; helped the fund Social assessment group in carrying out the explanatory work among the
residents and delivering the questionnaires. They also participated in elaboration of the II phase work
program and supervision of these works. Sighnaghi community participated actively in the Small Grant
Program "Scaling up Community Driven Development" and in elaboration of the Action Plan; carried out
small scaled activities envisaging tourism development: compiling of itineraries, preparation of tourist
booklets, setting up guest house association etc.; At present the group participates in setting up of Tourist
Information Center. Several NGO-s were founded that participate in above mentioned activities. The Fund
stimulated the local people to arrange the bad and breakfast hotels in their dwellings.

Special interest has been granted to Old Tbilisi Zemo Kala district. Community of this area is multi-ethical,
multicultural, heterogeneous; Besides, most of the population lives in bad economical conditions and this
causes conflicts and tensions. The Fund have made considerable efforts to mobilize community in the
areas of implementation of sub-projects; several sociological investigations were carried out; numerous
meetings conducted with representatives of community in order to explain the goals of the Projects, benefits
of community, their responsibilities, their involvement in decision-making process, etc. Tbilisi local CH
Committee was rather active at the initial stages, especially during the elaboration of the II phase program.
But afterwards several most active members moved to other districts and the activity of the Committee
reduced. Although during elaboration of the Erekle Street 8/10 caravanserai program local dwellers were
involved and special meetings held with them aiming at their participation and support of this project.

During the five years of the Fund's activities, its reputation and image among community of Old Tbilisi
significantly improved. More than 100 persons applied to the Fund with different proposals concerning
particular CH resources and asked for the recommendations on who to contact for possible financing or
consultations, etc. This clearly indicates, that the Fund's activities have a response in community and


                                                      - 37 -

causes increase of the private initiatives and responsibility.

In its activities the Fund always stressed the importance and the role of local community and tries to
explain to people, that the safeguarding of their national CH is in their hands and on their responsibility.
For this sake, the Fund elaborated Recommendations for the Local CH Committees, that can help them
to identify the objectives, elaborate the site management plans, find the means and ways for CH
preservation in their regions, cities, villages.

The Social Assessment carried out by Fund specialists revealed that due to the Fund activities the attitude
of the Community on the Pilot Sites underwent significant change, resulting in increase of the interest
towards CH and realizing the value of their own property, as well as arising the trust in Government care
and support and in foreign investments. This change of mentality is very important. Although the present
economical situation does not allow the people to participate in the restoration activities by financial
contribution (only in kind -labor, feeding the workers etc), they nevertheless gained the feeling of their own
importance in demanding, making decision, monitoring the process and of their responsibility as well. The
experience gained by SA group in establishing the questionnaires and the assessment criteria for the CH
preservation sphere will be valuable for future planning of such projects.

Partnerships

In course of the Project implementation the Fund established partnerships with different institutions,
Governmental bodies, community groups, NGO-s, local authorities, international and local donor
organizations (See Fund raising). They include: the State Chancellery, the Parliamentary Sub-Committee
on Cultural Heritage Protection, the Parliamentary Commission on Tbilisi Issues, the Ministry of Finance,
the Ministry of Culture, the Municipality of Tbilisi, the Monument Protection Department, the Patriarchy
of Georgia, UNESCO Georgian office, Georgian ICOMOS, Open Society - Georgia Foundation (Soros
Foundation), scientific-research institutes, museums, and NGOs working in the sphere of culture.

The Fund has a very active collaboration with the Council of Europe. CoE participated with Special Action
Plan for Georgia form very start of the Project, already during the IDF grant. The Fund became a junction
point for the WB and CoE in the CH sphere (E. Shevardnadze, President of Georgia, pointed out this in his
speech in Strasbourg in 1999). Co provided Technical Assistance in legislation, CH resources Inventory,
Old Town Rehabilitation Strategy, arrangement of study tours. These spared significant finances for the
Project and strengthened capacity of the Fund's experts.

Most active and close partnership was established with the Monument Protection Department of the
Ministry of Culture.

The Parliament of Georgia ­ CH Sub-Committee was actively involved in the Fund's work, organized
several Parliament meetings on different issues of the Project, participated in the work of the Board of
Trusties and Board of Experts of the Project.

Ministry of Finances is one of our main partners. The Project had many problems in receiving counterpart
financing, although the Ministry declares its support for the CH Project and all activities in this field.

Less efficient was the collaboration with the State Tourist Department, although the Head of the
Department was a member of the Board of Trusties and the Georgian Culture Revival Board.




                                                     - 38 -

Close partnership was established with the Tbilisi Municipality and its relevant departments (e.g. Chief
Architect's Office, Municipal Services, etc). In response to the Fund's demand, the Municipality allocated
funds for Tbilisi pilot project sub-projects. Although the Municipality showed eager interest in Project
activities, it often failed to allocate money on schedule.

Contacts were established with the Georgian Patriarchy as most of the sites under the ERP are in church
ownership and the Fund coordinates its activities the Patriarchy.

The Fund has been actively participating in the events and meetings related to the cultural heritage
protection (meetings organized by the Commission on Old Tbilisi Issues at the Parliament of Georgia,
ICROM seminar in Rome, ICOMOS seminars in Tbilisi on various issues of CH Preservation; conference
on cultural heritage legislation and conservation in Thessaloniki, seminar on cultural heritage protection
issues in Netherlands; seminar on city planning issues held by the German Development Agency; scientific
session of the Monument Protection Department, UNESCO work-shop on listing the CH resources;
work=shops of Ministry of Culture and CoE dedicated to the development of Cultural Politics in Georgia
etc.

Efficient collaboration developed between the Fund and Sighnaghi municipality and local Government ­
both phases of the Sighnaghi Pilot Project were elaborated with their active participation. They provided
support for the Fund's activities in Sighnaghi.

Partnership was established with MDF in the frames of the Tbilisi Pilot Project (rehabilitation of the
underground infrastructure facilities) and SIF (rehabilitation of hydroelectric power station in Shatili).

The Fund's experts participated in works of the scientific board of the Monument Protection Department,
State CH Board, Scientific Board for architecture and art restoration of Georgian Patriarchy, of Institute
of Georgian art History. Several staff members, after completing their contracts with the Fund started to
work in The Monument Protection department, thus sharing experience gained during the Project and
strengthening capacity of this institutions.

Tourism Development

Implementation of the CH Project stimulated certain activities related to tourism development.

Among other activities, the Shatili Pilot Project envisaged opening of a local ethnographic museum to
provide visitors with comprehensive information about the site; setting up folk hotels in 4 towers

Implementation of the Project resulted in Sighnaghi in increase of number of visitors and engendered
arrangement of the folk hotels. Opening of a visitors' center in Sighnaghi under TCTI will facilitate the
inclusion of Sighnaghi into tourist itineraries and assist in establishing contacts with tour agencies. As a
follow-up of the CH Project was implementation of the Small grant program "Scaling up Community
Driven Development in Sighnaghi."

In Uplistsikhe, the Fund financed infrastructure improvement works, namely, construction of the visitor's
center and installation of an access iron bridge for visitors.

The Fund elaborated and implemented the program envisaging the production and placement of new types
of road signs to facilitate visitors' access to the cultural heritage sites.




                                                        - 39 -

In results of Fund's activities the areas of Old Tbilisi became more attractive for tourists and tourism
related activities.

Old Town Master Plan

Old Tbilisi Revitalization Strategy. The Fund elaborated documents considering the methods and
strategies of revitalization of the old city, which have been approved and recognized as guiding documents
by all relevant bodies and organizations. These documents are based on the special researches and provide
a model for elaboration of the rehabilitation strategy for old towns. CoE provided technical assistance for
the research works. Usage of GIS for elaboration of the strategy is an advantage of these documents.
Several relevant institutions have applied to Fund for using these documents in their work (e.g. for
development of the Master Plan of Tbilisi, Sighnaghi).

In result of these work special model for planning the rehabilitation works in the Old Town have been
established. The material gathered for it can serve as a basis for different planning and practical activities
in Old Tbilisi.

Underground Waters

Funds were raised from the Dutch Trust Fund aiming at elaboration of the Project for rehabilitation of the
underground water System in Zemo-Kala. The research works were conducted by joint Dutch-Georgian
group and results are given in the Document, that provides assessment of this most important problem,
recommendations, scope of work, cost. This documents was used by MDF while designing works in Old
Tbilisi and still provides precious information for solving this problem, that causes damage to the houses in
Old Tbilisi.

Fundraising

The Fund made effort to raise funds from international and local investment companies and donors:

(a)   In 1998, funds were raised from a Dutch Trust Fund to finance emergency works in the cave
      complex of Vardzia.
(b)   During 1998-1999, a grant was obtained from a Dutch trust-fund to finance monitoring of
(c)   underground water level in Zemo Kala (Old Tbilisi).
(d)   The Council of Europe provided financial and technical assistance through its Special Action Plan
      for Georgia in the period from the year 1998 to 2000 for drafting laws in the field of cultural
      heritage. The project was implemented under the coordination of the Fund and with the participation
      of the Parliament, the Ministry of Culture, the Center of Archaeology Studies and other bodies
      concerned.
(e)   Grants were obtained in 1999 and in 2000 from the Council of Europe for making inventory of
      buildings located in the district of Zemo Kala (Old Tbilisi).
(f)   The document "Rehabilitation Policy for Old Tbilisi" was elaborated under the Administrative
      Arrangement between the Council of Europe and the Fund concluded on July 5, 2001. It was
      published with the financial support of the Council of Europe.
(g)   The Open Society - Georgia Foundation (Soros Foundation) provided funds for a photo exhibition
      dedicated to the cultural heritage of Georgia, which was held in Washington DC; also, for a research
      expedition to Javakheti, conservation of wall paintings of Skhalta Church and structural
      reinforcement of Kintsvisi Church).
(h)   The Trust Fund of the Italian Government contributed funds for the emergency conservation of the


                                                      - 40 -

      13th century wall paintings of St. Nicholas' Church at Kintsvisi: the grant covered the costs of
      conservation materials, consultancy services of two Italian restorers and elaboration of a design by
      an Italian climatologist for reducing humidity in the building).
(i)   The International Oil Corporation financed a survey of the Church of the Forty Martyrs in Tbilisi.
(j)   "Kartu Bank" allotted funds for purchase and installation of the equipment in the Kekelidze Institute
      of Manuscripts.
(k)   NGO "Mravaldzali" supported phase 2 restoration works on St. George's Church at Mravaldzali.
(l)   The New Georgian Fund (founded by: TBC-Bank, Aldagi, Martin Bauer, United Georgian Bank,
      GWS, Georgian Trans Expedition) co-financed restoration of St. Nino's Church in Poka.
(m)   "Magti-Group" financed an engineering-geological survey of Khirsa Church (Sighnaghi Region) and
      a survey of archaeological materials discovered in Poti by the Archaeological Center of the Academy
      of Sciences of Georgia.
(n)   Private sponsor purchased two UPSs for the State Museum of Fine Arts of Georgia.
(o)   The Tbilisi Municipality provides counterpart funding for the restoration of historic houses on Erekle
      II Street, Rkinis Rigi, Bambis Rigi, Sioni Streets. (Tbilisi Pilot Project).
(p)   A private sponsor financed a survey of cultural heritage monuments found in the surroundings of the
      Tsalka Reservoir.
(q)   A private sponsor financed archaeological excavations in the surroundings of Antiokia Church in
      Mtskheta.
(r)   A private sponsor supported the visit of the Fund Director to Istanbul, Turkey, the objective of which
      was to study the state of assets of Georgia's cultural heritage located in the depository of a Georgian
      Catholic church.
(s)   The Fund "Gamarjveba" financed the participation of the Deputy Fund Director in a research
      expedition to the Holly Land, Israel, aimed at the study of monuments of cultural heritage of
      Georgia located there.

In total, during the four years of Fund's activities, 378 000 USD was raised from additional sources.

Social Impact

The Fund's activities had an important social impact. More then 500 specialists were given an opportunity
to work in their spheres of specialization after a long interval of unemployment. More then 1800 people
were employed in the implementation of the sub-projects. Through its activities, the Fund instigated
creation of 37 independent construction companies.

Several hundreds of people in almost all regions of Georgia, where the projects supported by the Fund were
implemented, indirectly benefited from the Project by attracting a spend from business trips and selling of
construction materials.

Implementation of the "Neighborhood Fund" program in Tbilisi and Sighnaghi also had a social impact as
a support for the dwellers of the listed houses who have no economic possibility to maintain there dwellings
properly.

Lessons Learned

         Experience gained innovations, impacts, improvements

Considering the nature of the LIL introduction and stimulation of amendments responding to the market
economy in the sphere of management of the CH of Georgia is a very important aspect of Fund's activities


                                                      - 41 -

along with the practical implementation of the conservation-restoration projects.. The changes refer to
institutional building, capacity building, fund-raising, change of mentality and self cognition and
strengthening public responsibility and engendering private initiatives.

The achievement of these objectives is strongly dependant on the development of the market-based
economy, the private sector, legislative bases, bank system, tourism industry, reducing of poverty etc., that
are independent from Fund's activities.

Improvement of the legislation is one of the most serious output of the CH Project.

The important result of the Fund activities is introducing and instilling new modus operendi in the sphere
of CH preservation, namely the tender based selection, which was not current in USSR. Most of the
specialists and related organization adopted this mode of work. The Fund inspired foundation of new,
independent NGO-s and construction firms.

Important experience has been gained in working with community groups. It showed that to overcome the
Soviet mentality i.e. lack of initiative and sense of responsibility ,is not easy task. The community groups
demand systematic `stirring up" and tend to wait for instructions. But proper methodology of community
participation ensures positive results, as e.g. in Shatili and Sighnaghi.. It would give better results in case
of more funding and time.

Significant work was carried out while elaborating the "Revolving Funds Program" that can serve as a tool
for sustainable activities in conservation-rehabilitation of the old town districts. The program is based on
the so called "Lisbon experience" and if becoming operational, will solve many problems in the old town
preservation field. The program is based on the public-private partnership and private investments and
credit lines (mortgage loans). The Fund can't start the program itself, as the character of the LIL doesn't
permit activities related to credits, revenue etc., besides, the program needs initial funding, approximately
1 800 000 USD, that is not available in our budget. But anyway, the elaboration of this mechanism is an
important achievement in this field.

In regard to Old Tbilisi problems, the work carried out by "Tbilisi Group" is very important. Based on the
research and inventory works (including the thematic maps created in GIS), the group prepared two
important documents: " Kala - strategy for rehabilitation of the district" and "Main issues of urban
rehabilitation of Tbilisi" (published in 2002), that are admitted as methodical guidelines for the
rehabilitation and urban planning in the old districts of Tbilisi. The method of application of the GIS for
creating the thematic maps based on inventories and scientific researches, is an important innovation in the
Georgian CH preservation.

The Fund's experts offered the Parliament to make amendment to the taxation regulation in regard with the
CH; namely, to reduce amount of taxes for restoration works (they are very expensive all by themselves;
and taxing takes nearly more thatn one third of the allocated funds); besides, we offered to make clear
distinction in taxing restoration works in the Old Town (the taxes must be very low) and the new
construction in same districts (that must be significantly high); this would stimulate private investors to
prefer restoration of the old houses instead of destructing them and building new concrete structures.

Fund's Technical Group elaborated methods and mechanisms for prompt assessment of the
structural-engineering condition of the CH resources and elaboration of the relevant cost-estimations.
Fund's expert strengthened their capacity in assessment of underground water problems, in monitoring and
planning relevant activities.


                                                      - 42 -

Due to the Fund's activities, the interest of the media in CH increased. In comparison with 1998, the
number of articles and TV broadcasts related to the CH increased considerably.

Important result is introducing the new mechanism of tender selection - procurement procedures - in this
field and accustom the relevant organizations and specialists to these rules and regulations. On initial
stages of Fund's activities there were many problems with explaining these rules to the applicants,
beneficiaries, contractors.

The contractors, used to the Soviet methods of work, were trained by Fund in the new mechanism of
procurement, submitting the withdrawal applications, realistic planning of implementation time,
elaboration of the projects etc.

The beneficiaries learned how to prepare project-proposals, single out the essential issues, assess the
risk-factors etc.

The Fund's activities caused disintegration of the soviet monopolistic system in CH protection field. 35 new
building companies were established that participate in the tenders announced by the Fund.

The Fund introduced in the CH preservation sphere the issue of community based planning, of performing
the social investigations and social evaluation of the performed activities.

Sustainable Development Concepts. For the four pilot sites, the sustainable development concepts (Site
Management Plans) have been elaborated by the special consulting firms. The objective was to prepare a
base for the II phase works on these sites, but the concepts exceed these needs and can serve as a base for
further activities on these sites, to lay down a conceptual framework for the preservation and protection of
these sites. These concepts provide bases for corrects and efficient management of Old Town CH. This
two-phase approach, which was not envisaged in the initial design of the Project, proved to be very efficient

In the course of implementation of the ERP sub-projects certain new technologies have been elaborated
and tested. E.g., production of the special ceramic tiles for the roofing, including the glazed tiles, based on
the study of the old technologies; the new hydrophobic material Boxan (German production) was tested for
the stone conservation in Dzalisa, Vani and Gonio-Aphsaros and found appropriate for these needs; the
biocide Metatin has been tested in Kintsvisi for the treatment of the results of micro-organism attacks,
causing the damage of the painting layers.

All these new methods and materials may be used on other monuments and serve as an important tool in
the conservation practice.

It must be noted that in cases of application of these new materials and methodologies, thorough testing has
been carried out in independent bodies and laboratories to be sure of the results of their application.

The Fund engendered the creation of the computer data bases and information banks in different fields of
CH.

Along with the works aiming at safeguarding - conservation-restoration - of the CH resources,
implemented under ERP and 4 Pilot Projects, the significant improvement of the archives and depositories
has been carried out through arranging the climatic equipment and creating the computer information
banks.


                                                     - 43 -

The Neighborhood Fund program proved to be socially effective, but post factum it seems it would have
been better if whole money was spent only on one large problem (e.g. roofs) instead of dispersing on many
different trifles. The unsolved problem of underground water and hence the basements, still make any
works in this part of Tbilisi less effective.

In frames of the "Neighborhood Fund" program small repairs of different types were implemented on 36
listed buildings in Zemo Kala, Old Tbilisi (Total of 41 applications were accepted. In all, 7690 m2 of tin
roofing was replaced; 13470 m2 of facades and balconies were painted; 25002 of wood was placed under
tin roofing; 115 m2 of doors and windows were replaced and 127m2 of flooring was laid.) and 37 buildings
in Sighnaghi. (Total of 43 applications were accepted. Works are finished. In all 4430 m2 of tin roofing
was replaced, 1010 m2 of tiling was reset, 1205 m2 of facades and balconies were painted; 2740m2 of
wood was placed under tin roofing, 137m2 of doors and windows were replaced and 1140m2 of flooring
was laid).

         Weak Points and Problems

The appraisal period of the Project was very short (from mid December 1997 until mid-January 1998) and
thereafter. Already during the implementation period, many amendments had to be made (in programs, in
budget, in staffing etc) that, taking to consideration the short duration of the Project (that is, three years)
caused many difficulties for the Fund because many things had to be changed during the implementation.
Several changes of the Task manager and WB team also caused difficulties in the Fund activities. although
for last three years the previous Task Manager (E. Peterson) and the most recent one (J. Bernstein) worked
in close collaboration, and this had a positive effect.

In the future, it would be better to allocate more time and funds for the preparation period to avoid having
to make changes in the initial program.

Initially the social-economic development of the country was assessed too optimistic, and this occurred to
be unrealistic and this caused the fact that involvement of the private sector was less than envisaged or
desired.

The initial design of the project was too versatile - comprises too much diverse activities (with restricted
budget and within short time). Probably it would be better to concentrate on one main activity (e.g. ERP)
and subdue everything to it. The results would be more visible and effective.

Start of the Project took more time that envisaged, as the PIU itself and the contractors and partners
especially had to get aquatinted with the WB regulations (especially that of Procurement), tender
procedures; initial program given in PAD had to be revised as well as budget etc.

During the implementation of the Civil works there arouse certain problems. There was limited number of
firms or organizations in CH restoration. Especially multidisciplinary. This concerns mostly the highly
specialized fields (painting restorers, chemists, stone restorers etc). This problem can't be solved in short
time, even in several years, as far as there must be social demand for these specializations. The Project
activities stimulated this process and engendered foundation of independent firms and companies.

In regard with the timing, the excessively time-consuming procurement procedures also affected the time
(speed) of implementation. Taking into consideration that the restoration works are mostly tightly linked
with seasons (best time late spring - summer - early autumn), the procurement procedures sometimes hinder


                                                     - 44 -

appropriate beginning of implementation. Concerning the ERP architectural projects: most of them were
already completed ( at least in main) and approved by the scientific board of the Monument Preservation
Department. So there existed the group of authors. It was necessary to finalize the working design and to
recruit the supervisors. The sums for these designing-supervision contracts were small enough (ranging
from $1000 to$10 000). Due to the small amount of money and on the emergency character of the works it
would have been more appropriate to make a direct contract with the group of authors, particularly because
their work was approved by the Main Board and being the authors of the project, they have more
knowledge and experience of the monument, than anybody else. But as in the Credit Agreement, direct
contracts were not envisaged, it occurred to be impossible and caused the significant loss of time. After
long negotiations with the WB, we were allowed to hire the consultants for supervision (authors of design)
through direct contacts.

During the initial stages of project implementation, there was one issue with regard to hiring the
consultants. According to the Credit agreement, hiring of consultants must be done by QCBS method. The
CQ and LC are also permissible, but only for the C part of the Project (TA). Up to now the sums of the
contracts for the consulting firms, concluded by the Fund, are very small, the number of contracts is big.
Hence applying of the QCBS to this small contracts is very inconvenient. the firms were hired by QCBS
method (only several firms in ERP were hired by CQ based on the WB no objection ). Based on all these.
applying CQ method for hiring firms for small tasks solves the problem. This problem was solved with the
help of the Bank Team.

There was still one problem: under ERP, the cost estimates in the project applications were given in
dollars, but the contracts are concluded in Lari. It would be better if we indicated the currency for the
moment of concluding the contract. It would spare the loss of money for contractors, as far as the Georgian
currency is not stable. The contractors were displeased with this (sometimes from signing contract till last
disbursement passes enough time and the currency changes significantly). The delay in receiving of No
Objections from the World Bank also hindered in a way timely implementation of sub-projects.

Decision made by the World Bank and GoG that evaluation and selection of the project proposals under
ERP should be made by the Georgian Revisal Board and not the Fund itself, caused significant delay in
implementation of the projects. The Fund had enough capacity and skills to make selection on his own and
to undertake responsibility for the decision. On the other hand, this ensured wide community support and
involvement in the ERP activities.

Due to the character of LIL it was impossible to make operational "credit lines" or a "revolving funds
program" etc, that could ensure sustainability of the Fund.

There were many complications in the work due to lack of experience of PIU during the appraisal of the
Project and due to the speeding the appraisal on the behalf of the WB. and certainly due to the present
economical and political situation in Georgia.

In the Neighborhood Fund program, if the grant amount for each family were larger, the social effect would
be greater. (Small sums dispersed on many small problems do not solve essential problems).

Initially it was not envisaged the time and funds for designing the sub-projects; it was not taken to
consideration that the Procurement guidelines do not match well in the rules of restoration work, are not
flexible enough.

In case of Old Towns the WB rules that prevented implementing works for private possession caused


                                                     - 45 -

problems, as most of the buildings in selected areas are private dwellings. The idea was that the Projects
finances the exterior works and the private owners- interior. But due to the poor economic condition of the
people, this was hardly achievable. The works implemented by the Fund certainly had positive effect in
regard with improvement of the condition and architectural image of the buildings, but it would have
better effect if there was possibility to rehabilitate these buildings in whole. Neither in Old Tbilisi, nor in
Sighnaghi the population could provide counterpart funding.

Taking to consideration the short term of the Project and the present situation in Georgia in whole, it seems
unrealistic to state as one of the main goals of the Project the development of tourism, development of new
fee collecting and cost recovering systems and methods for monuments and their testing on four of the pilot
sites and some others, which hardly can be achieved in such short time. They must not serve as the
indicators for evaluating the fund activities. A number of items of the original program appeared unrealistic


Economic assessment. It was envisaged in PAD that training would be provided for Georgian specialist in
economic assessment on Pilot sites. This was not done, but the "Site Management Plans" for 4 Pilot
Projects considered economic issues among others.

With regard to fee collection mechanisms, the issue is considered in the Sustainable Development Concepts
for Pilot sites. Beside, the Fund's experts elaborated a document dealing with main problems in this regard,
e.g. different types of monuments, amount of entree fee etc. several recommendations are given in regard of
the different possibilities of cost recovery mechanisms on different sites. These are mostly theoretical
considerations, based on experience of our experts but without conducting special economic and
cost-benefit surveys. As far as to test new methods and mechanisms demand special decisions and
permissions of different relevant institutions and changes in Tax policy, there was not possibility to carry
out this work.

One big problem was the Georgian counterpart financing, that was often delayed and this in turn resulted in
delay in sub-project's disbursement and implementation.

         Obstacles

Ø Therateofthegrowthoftourismdoesnotcorrespondtotheoriginallyplannedlevelowingtothe
      political and economic condition in the country, which impedes the generation of income from this
      sector, while this was assumed to be one of the outcomes of the Project;

Ø Owingtothepooreconomiccondition,thelocalcommunitiesappearedunabletoprovidefinancial
      contribution to the preservation of cultural heritage despite their great desire to do so, while their
      financial involvement was originally envisaged under the Project;

Ø Thelawon"SponsorshipandCharityintheSphereofCulture",whichmusthaveservedasamajor
      factor of the involvement of private sector in cultural heritage activities, remains un-adopted by the
      Parliament of Georgia. Owing to this, cultural heritage remains dependent on the support of foreign
      donors and the Government;

Ø Taxationsystemeffectiveinthecountryalsocreatesseriousproblemsbecause35%-40%offunding
      obtained for restoration/conservation activities is applied for paying taxes. It is our opinion that
      adoption of taxation incentives for such activities will markedly improve the condition of cultural
      heritage monuments as well as stimulate private sector initiatives, increase employment, generate


                                                        - 46 -

     income and, to a certain extent, relieve burden from the state which fails to provide adequate budget
     for cultural heritage.

Ø Thedelayinreceivingcounterpartfundsfromthecentralbudget.

Ø Thebankingsysteminthecountryisnotdevelopedandreliableenough,thatprevents establishing
     "credit lines" and other activities for engendering small enterprises etc.

Ø Statisticalservicesareveryundevelopedinthecountryanditisdifficulttoobtainrelevant
     information.

We understand that the sustainability and viability of the outcomes largely depend on the
economic-political situation in the country. The concepts and mechanisms devised within the Project will
not work unless adequate conditions are created in the country (e.g. improvement of the legal framework,
establishing incentives for private sector investments, support to small and medium enterprises,
empowerment of local communities, reduction of poverty, etc).

Outputs

The Project outputs were largely attained (please, see above).. Though, it is to be mentioned that
considering the nature of the LIL, the realization of the mechanisms that would ensure the long-term
development of cultural heritage was not possible. However, the LIL played a decisive role for this sector,
as well as for the stimulation and mobilization of local communities. It was within the LIL that the
mechanisms, the realization of which could be possible under a different type of a credit, were devised. It
can be regarded that the LIL prepared conducive grounds for the further development. It served to improve
the management and promotion of cultural heritage (through educational TV shots, video films, bulletins,
journals, brochures, reports published through mass media, web-site, exhibitions, which focused on the role
of cultural heritage, significance of separate monuments, and contained appeals to public for the
involvement in cultural heritage preservation).

90 sub-projects have been implemented in different fields of the CH, more than 270 CH resources have
been saved due to the CH Project activities.

Outcomes

Ø TheProjectplayedaroleofthecatalystinthe break-upofthemonopolisticsysteminthefieldof
    cultural heritage management typical of the Soviet period, which was followed by the creation of
    independent consulting and restoration companies (more than 30), and adoption of new market-oriented
    systems of cultural heritage management (introduction of tenders, etc);

Ø Projectactivitiesservedtoincreasetheinterestoflocalcommunitiesintheirculturalheritageand
    strengthened the sense of responsibility; the local communities seem to be more actively involved in
    decision-making and in fund-raising; the number of local initiatives has increased markedly; the
    communities tend to recognize cultural heritage and cultural tourism related to it as a source of income;
    the community-based participatory approach applied by the Project has significantly increased the
    sense of ownership in local communities (e.g. in case of the Tbilisi Pilot Project).

Ø TheimplementationoftheProjectconvincedusthattheculturalheritageisafactorwhichcan
    stimulate social and national cohesion even in multiethnic and conflict zones. I can bring an example of


                                                     - 47 -

    projects that we implemented in Javakheti and in South Ossetia (Ikorta, Azmana, Tighva), where
    people of various nationalities and religions worked side by side and continue to maintain the
    monuments;

Ø TheProjecthadanimportantimpactonsocialsphere-ithasstimulatedpovertyreductionby
    employing more than 2000 people, including 500 specialists.

Ø Despitetheabove-mentionedsituationintermsoftourismdevelopment,theactivitiescarriedoutunder
    the Project had an important impact on this sector as well. In Shatili, several towers were converted
    into guest houses; a museum, which is expected to bring some income generating activities for the local
    community, will be opened. In Uplistsikhe a visitor's centre was constructed and the site infrastructure
    was enhanced. The activities carried out by the Project encouraged local residents to convert their
    houses into folk hotels (7). Apart from this, with the recommendation of the PIU, Sighnaghi was
    included in the World-Bank supported trans-Caucasian Tourism Development Initiative. This will
    favor the development of tourism infrastructure and generation of income in the region. The Project
    activities in Old Tbilisi encouraged local investors to take increased interest in this district and also,
    resulted in the growth of the number of visitors, which, in turn, will bring additional income to the
    cafes, art galleries and crafts studios located there.

Ø Theimplementationoftheprojecthaspromotedcapacitybuildinginthefieldsofculturalheritage
    management and restoration. Within the framework of the sub-projects new methods and technologies
    were tested and adopted (e.g. reinforcement of rocks in Uplistsikhe, biocide treatment of Kintsvisi
    murals, etc). The PIU staff, having acquired significant experience during the implementation of the
    Project, at present provides consultations to various organizations and individuals.

Ø TheProjectencouragedlocaldonorsandprivatesectortotakeincreasedinterestinculturalheritagein
    terms of making investments in this area. The allocation of funds by the WB served as an example to
    them. This is attested by the fact that the PIU managed to raise USD 370 000 from external sources for
    the implementation of various projects;

Ø Themechanismof"RevolvingFunds"andtheconceptsforthesustainabledevelopmentof thepilot
    sites, devised within the Project, will continue to favor sustainable management of cultural heritage and
    application of modern approaches to management and financing. The materials developed within the
    Project are now used by various specialists employed in this sector;

Ø WewouldparticularlypointouttheeffortsmadebytheProjectintermsofdevelopinglegal
    framework. The law "On Georgia's Cultural Heritage Protection" made a significant contribution to the
    improved management of cultural heritage and institutional arrangement in the given sector. Several
    other laws have been drafted in the framework of the Project by envisaging the European experience.

Ø TheProjectmadeasignificantcontributiontotheenhancementoftheenvironmentontheProjectsites
    (improvement of infrastructure, prevention of destruction processes, landscaping of areas, etc);

Quality of World Bank's Contribution

First of all, the main contribution is the Credit allocated for the needs of the CH preservation sphere for
Georgia, that was rare instance in the World Bank's practice. In a way, it was a kind of risk, and the Bank
ran this risk.




                                                      - 48 -

The WB task team did its best to support the CH Project. Contribution of Mr. Robert Maurer, who
elaborated "Cultural Heritage Initiative" Project (IDF Grant) must be marked out as well as contribution of
Mr. Tom Blinkhorn, who overtook the labor of preparing and launching CH Project (LIL Credit);
especially, contribution of Mr. Eric Peterson and Ms. Janis Bernstein must be emphasized - as already
mentioned above. They worked in tight collaboration on our Project and this had very positive impact.

Taking to consideration, that this was first stand-alone cultural heritage project for the World Bank, there
certainly arose some problems, but the Task Team always tried and succeeded to solve this problems as
fast as they could. On every stage of project development this support was very apparent and visible. The
WB provided international consultants in Management, Financial management, MIS monitoring, Old
Town development Strategy. This was essential for the successful start and development of the project. The
Task Team provided aid in Project Implementation Rapports, Key performance indicators, in social
surveys.

The contacts with the Task Team was always very prompt, timely (in spite of the fact that the WB being
rather bureaucratic organization takes too much time for decision making and responding to the on-going
problems). They acted as mediators between the Fund and other Departments of the WB. Provided valuable
advises and recommendations. The Task Manager and Task team always thoroughly considered the
Fund's suggestions, proposals in regard with different issues (e.g. budget revisions, amendments to Pilot
Site program, etc.). The Task manager supported the Fund in relations with the Ministry of finances,
demanding timely allocation of counterpart financing; even in dealing with problem with the American
contractor who delayed supply of equipment for one of the ERP projects.

It was very good that in the Project program special attention was paid to the institutional building,
capacity building, strengthening of local communities, human resources and other issues that must provide
sustainable development of the CH preservation field in Georgia. The Bank rightly considered, that only
practical conservation activities are not enough to ensure future sustainable development of this field and it
is more important to provide the country with "tools" for future independent activities.




                                                     - 49 -

Additional Annex 9. Partner Comments: Ministry of Finance of Georgia




                                      - 50 -

- 51 -

