Report No. PID6717
Project Name             Georgia - Cultural Heritage (+) ...
(Learning and Innovation Loan)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia
Sector                   Cultural Heritage
Project ID               GEPE55573
Borrower                 Government of Georgia
Implementing Agency      Georgia Fund for Preservation of Cultural
Heritage Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
73 Barnov Street; Tbilisi 380009 Georgia
Tel:    995-32-252220
Fax:    995-32-226-312
Environment Category     B
Date This PID Prepared   Updated August, 1998
Date of Initial PID      January, 1998
Project Appraisal Date   December 10, 1997
Project Board Date       February 18, 1998
A. Country and Sector Background
B. 1.   The Government places high priority on sustained growth by
encouraging the merging private sector in all key economic areas. Among other
things, the Government is beginning to implement plans to strengthen the legal
system, reorient the structure of government (national and local), and
rehabilitate basic infrastructure. Parallel investments to (a) protect and
save unique cultural heritage sites from further deterioration and (b) revive
or establish basic tourist infrastructure and services, offer high potential
for revenue generation in Georgia. Small but visible investments in
historically distinctive cultural landmarks can also attract private investors
and other partners.
The project will indirectly explore ways of diversifying sources of economic
growth and strengthening public finance.
Objective
2.      The project development objective is to improve the management and
promotion of Georgia's cultural heritage by (a) testing approaches that could
revive the once dynamic tourism industry and (b) engendering social cohesion
and national identity during the difficult economic transition.
C. Description
3.      The project provides assistance for an investment component and a
technical assistance component. The investment component includes: (a) a
demand-driven Emergency Rehabilitation Fund/Program for urgent repairs nation-
wide of culturally significant assets or heritage sites; (b) financing for
four cultural heritage pilot sites for historic renovation and related



heritage and tourism activities.
The technical component includes: a) PIU Support and Institution-building; b)
Training and Study Tours; c) Public Awareness Program; d) Integrated
Conservation Master Plan, Old Town, Tbilisi; e) Monitoring and Evaluation
(M&E) program.
D. Financing
4.      The LIL is financed by an IDA credit ($4.49 million), Government
contribution ($480,000) and numerous bilateral trust fund grants (Dutch,
Italian, Swedish, Swiss). The LIL will test innovative approaches for
providing financial support to target beneficiaries and experimenting with
potentially profitable income-generating activities such as bed and breakfast
facilities in cultural heritage/tourism sites. Many people living in or near
these sites have been impacted by economic transition and will not be expected
to repay in financial terms. Partial cost recovery will be tested through
entrance fees and community contributions in labor and in-kind.
The main objective of the project's fiscal impact is to invest in the
restoration of valuable cultural assets that have the potential to help revive
the cultural-based tourism industry. The counterpart contribution of US$0.48
million (GoG) will be 10 percent of the total project cost.
E. Implementation
5.      The engineering design and procurement documents for the first year's
activities were close to completion for the start of project implementation,
but given the fast-paced nature of preparation, full preparation of all
documents was not possible. The draft project implementation manual was
finalized, in a manner satisfactory to IDA, as a condition of effectiveness
and will be improved upon and revised during the life of the project.
F.
G. Sustainability
6.      The project's sustainability depends on its ability to re-establish the
once flourishing tourist industry through new private-public partnerships as
opposed to the old state-centered approach. A related assumption is that a re-
invigorated cultural heritage program will help restore national pride and
cohesion during a difficult economic transition and thus nurture public
support for reforms. A closely monitored participatory process, through an
ongoing social assessment, will help to engage local communities in priority
setting, and help ensure ownership and participation by community
stakeholders. Financial sustainability will come from local and private
entrepreneurs, such as in the eastern wine growing region, as well as fees for
visitors to renovated historic structures and museums; visitors' exit tax;
entrance charges for music and arts festivals; and incentives for
philanthropy.
H. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
7.      Lessons learned from the Bank's work in transition economies and Georgia
in particular with its strong ethnic diversity are to support: (a) modest,
community-based, demand driven investments that address priority public needs;
(b) thorough social assessments to ascertain stakeholders' interests and
preferences; (c) flexible but comprehensive institutional arrangements; (d)
programs that support social cohesion as an essential ingredient for nation
- 2-



building and sustainable economic development; and (e) well qualified NGOs to
assist with public awareness-raising and community mobilization. Specific
lessons learned from the IDF supported Cultural Heritage Initiative include:
the importance of stronger inter-governmental collaboration for effectively
planning a CH program, and the desirability of updated legislation at national
and local levels to encourage and enable cultural heritage learning and
implementation.
I. Poverty Category
8.      Social analysis has revealed that most people living in or near the four
pilot cultural heritage (CH) sites selected for assistance under this project
are quite poor. In addition, vulnerable ethnic groups populate important
historic dwellings in Old Town Tbilisi (e.g. caravansary). By upgrading
cultural sites and testing new opportunities for tourism development, the
project will provide employment to some of these people. In addition, physical
infrastructure and environmental improvements should enhance their standard of
living.
J. Environmental Aspects
9.      The project is classified as a B project, and entails substantial
environmental analysis and site management planning. The project is expected
to have an overall positive environmental impact through site management and
conservation planning, emergency repairs at priority CH sites, landscape
improvements, installation of potable water and sewage systems (e.g. Shatili),
and neighborhood funds to address water drainage problems of historic
dwellings in Old Town and Signaghi. The large leakages in the underground
water system in Old Town are threatening the historic fabric of many
significant buildings. An initial investigation into the underground water
problem in Old Town will be followed by a feasibility study of least cost
options. In the two ecologically sensitive sites of Shatili mountain village
and Uplistsikhe cave city, site management plans will include environmental
analyses that encompass biodiversity protection and mitigation plans for
tourism impacts.
K. Program Objective Categories
10.     The program objective categories include: environmental protection and
management, poverty alleviation, and to a lesser degree, private sector
development.
Project Benefits
11.     The cultural heritage investments will directly benefit local communities
at the four pilot sites, as well as those where emergency repairs will take
place through employment opportunities arising from renovation work and
revived tourism activities at historic cultural sites (e.g. bed and
breakfasts, tours, tourism centers). The Georgian population, and foreign
visitors, may benefit through a more enabling environment for the revival of
tourism, and through new opportunities to learn and access Georgia's unique
cultural heritage. Greater private sector involvement will be tested, and
private investors may also benefit. Different levels of government, including
the Ministry of Culture and local municipalities, will benefit through
capacity-building and direct investments. Additional benefits would include:
(a) increased public awareness of the importance of cultural heritage
preservation and support for it as a key element in future economic
development of the nation; (b) improved community organization and
implementation capacity at the heritage sites; (c) attraction of a wider
-3 -



network of donors, private investors, and corporate philanthropy in support of
Georgia's cultural heritage; (d) enhanced social cohesion through greater
attention to the uniqueness of Georgia's cultural traditions and achievements.
Project Risks
12.     Several risks have been identified, including: 1) lack of adequate
public-private financing for operation and maintenance at restored sites; 2)
minimal new investments in tourism infrastructure to leverage the LIL
investments; and 3) political instability. Measures will be taken in the
project to collect fees and develop revolving funds at the sites to address
sustainability issues. There will be efforts made to link the CH project with
biodiversity, Tbilisi water and sanitation, and other internationally-financed
projects.
Contact Point:           Betsy McGean, ECSSD
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:202-458-5576
Fax No.:202-477-1996
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



