Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3040 GE
Development Credit Agreement
(Cultural Heritage Project)
between
GEORGIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 18, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3040 GE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 18, 1998, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  2
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
 (c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Board” means the Cultural Heritage Initiative Board of Trustees, 
established under the Presidential Decree dated December 27, 1996, and responsible for 
the determination of policies for the preservation of cultural heritage assets and 
coordination of related programs; 
(b)
“Caravansary” means the Caravansary at 7/10 Irakle Street in Old Town 
Tbilisi, referred to in Part B of the Project; 
(c)
“Committee” means the Save Georgia’s Culture Committee established by 
Presidential Decree dated March 5, 1992, which is responsible for evaluating pending 
proposals for the Cultural Heritage Emergency Rehabilitation Fund (as hereinafter 
defined) under Part A of the Project; 
(d)
“Cultural Heritage Emergency Rehabilitation Fund” means the fund 
established by the Presidential Decree dated March 5, 1992;
(e)
“Ministry” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Culture; 
(f)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of 
this Agreement;  
(g)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual to be adopted by the PIU 
(as hereinafter defined) in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Page  3
Agreement setting forth the procedures to be followed for the implementation of the 
Project; 
(h)
“PIU” means the project implementation unit, established under the Board 
and responsible for management and coordination of Project implementation; and 
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2008, and ending January 15, 2033. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2018 shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the PIU with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate engineering, financial and administrative practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Page  5
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the PIU, maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out 
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through the PIU:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that: 
(a)
the Project Account has been opened and an initial deposit in the 
currency of the Borrower in an amount equivalent to not less than $100,000 has been 
made; and 
(b)
the PIU has adopted the Project Implementation Manual acceptable to the 
Association. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  6
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze Str.
380062 Tbilisi
Georgia
Telex:
212 348 MOFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
GEORGIA
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Anil Sood 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  7
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
 (1)
Works:
(a)
under Part A
600,000)
100% of foreign
of the Project
)
expenditures and
)
80% of local
(b)
under Part B  900,000
)
expenditures
of the Project
)
other than for the
)
Caravansary under
)
Category 1(c) below
)
)
(c)
in respect of the 
400,000)
Caravansary in the
)
Old Town of Tbilisi
)
(2)
Goods
 75,000
100%
(3)
Consultants’
     1,000,000
100%
services
(4)
Unallocated
425,000
________
TOTAL
     3,400,000 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (i) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (ii) payment for expenditures under Category (1) (c) unless the 
Borrower has completed underground water monitoring tests establishing that the 
underground water is not an impediment to the restoration of the Caravansary and has 
submitted a time bound action plan in respect of the settlement, acceptable to the 
Association, in respect of the families and individuals to be relocated from the 
Caravansary to enable the carrying out of the works under Part B of the Project which 
shall be prepared on the basis of guidelines and principles agreed by the Borrower and 
the Association.
4.
The Association may require, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower, withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) individual 
consultants, under contract costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (ii) consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) works 
under contracts costing less than $300,000 each.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
Page  8
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) support pilot operations for 
restoration and preservation of essential assets in Georgia’s cultural heritage; and 
(b) improve the capacity of municipalities in partnership with the private sector and 
local communities to manage and preserve such assets, utilize them in promoting 
tourism and other economic activities and to heighten public awareness of their 
cultural and economic significance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Cultural Heritage Emergency Rehabilitation Fund
Carrying out of: (i) repairs at priority cultural heritage sites; and (ii) 
measures for restoration of cultural artifacts, all to be evaluated by the Committee, 
in accordance with procedures and eligibility criteria agreed upon by the Borrower and 
the Association.
Part B:
Pilot Restoration Activities
Implementation of pilot operations for restoration of ancient sites, including 
restoration works in: (i) Old Town Tbilisi, through: (I) repairs, and retrofitting of 
historic buildings, drainage repairs, landscape improvements, renovations of public 
museums, and restoration of other culturally distinctive structures; and (II) carrying 
out of underground monitoring tests and, if the results are found acceptable by the 
Borrower and the Association, rehabilitation of the Caravansary; (ii) Signaghi, 
eastern Georgia, for renovation of historic structures, museums, establishment of a 
tourism office and handicrafts center and carrying out of small structural repairs; 
and (iii) such other ancient sites as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Association.
Part C:
Technical Assistance; Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
Technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of the PIU, the Ministry, 
municipal bodies and local communities in the management of cultural heritage. 
2.
Preparation and implementation of a program to increase public awareness of 
assets in the country’s cultural heritage and to encourage participation of local 
residents and organizations in their preservation and optimum utilization. 
3.
Preparation of an integrated conservation master plan for Old Town Tbilisi. 
4.
Training of PIU staff, including study tours in locations that offer successful 
examples of cultural heritage conservation. 
5.
Monitoring and evaluation of the Project’s impact through establishment of a 
management and information system in the PIU, beneficiary assessments and technical 
and social audits.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Page  9
1.
Civil works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more per contract, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Works estimated to cost more than $150,000 but less than $300,000 equivalent per 
contract may, and goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis, of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract in respect of works and goods to be awarded 
under the provisions of Parts B and C.1 of Section I of this Schedule, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods and the first two contracts in 
respect of works to be procured under procedures other than Parts C.2 and C.3 of 
Section I of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: (i) prior to the 
selection of any supplier or the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
and (ii) the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Page  10
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, 
appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality and cost-based selection of consultants.
(b)
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding 
paragraph. The short list of consultants for services under Part C of the project, 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultant services for under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for Part C of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with provisions of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  11
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
A. Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual, as adopted by the PIU and shall ensure that the provisions of 
such Project Implementation Manual are not amended without the prior consent of the 
Association;
(b)
maintain the PIU at least until Project completion, headed by an 
individual whose qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Association; 
and ensure that the PIU has appropriate facilities and is staffed with sufficient 
personnel with adequate qualifications; 
(c)
cause the PIU, under the general supervision of the Board, to carry out 
the responsibilities for coordination and management of Project implementation which 
shall include: (i) the preparation and furnishing to the Association, for its 
concurrence, of annual work programs in respect of the Project; (ii) the preparation 
of procurement and contract documents under the Project; (iii) the maintenance of the 
Project’s financial records, including in respect of the Special Account and the 
Project Account; (iv) the supervision of work under the Project, in close coordination 
with the Board and the Ministry; and (v) the preparation and furnishing to the Board 
and the Association, of quarterly reports on the status of Project implementation; and
(d)
employ a management advisor, financial advisor, procurement specialist 
and monitoring and evaluation specialist in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement no later than May 1, 1998. 
2.
Until Project completion, the Borrower shall maintain the Project Account and 
make quarterly deposits therein in such amounts as shall be adequate to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project in a timely manner.
B. Part A of the Project
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) assign the responsibility for the carrying out, review 
and approval of works included in Part A of the Project to the PIU and shall, for this 
purpose, cause the PIU to designate not later than April 1, 1998 from among its staff 
an official with suitable qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, to be responsible for the management of said Part; (b) cause the 
Committee which will be responsible for the selection of activities to be carried out 
under Part A of the Project, to collaborate effectively with the PIU and cause the PIU 
to provide technical assistance to the Committee, as needed. 
C. Part B of the Project
1.
In carrying out Part B of the Project, the PIU shall: (i) prepare and furnish to 
the Bank, for its concurrence, a detailed plan, including the engineering designs, 
social and environmental analysis and procurement plan, prior to the carrying out of 
the restoration works in Old Tbilisi; (ii) prepare and furnish to the Association site 
management plans in such scope and detail as the Association shall request in respect 
of the site at Signaghi or any other site included in Part B of the Project; and (iii) 
thereafter carry out said plans in accordance with the time schedule set forth 
therein; 
2.
The PIU shall adopt and implement procedures to ensure active participation of 
local residents and other stakeholders, such as private vendors, tourism associations, 
interested investors and municipal bodies, in the preparation and implementation of 
the plan referred to in paragraph (1) above. 
3.
The Borrower shall carry out the resettlement plan referred to in Section 3 (ii) 
of Schedule 1 in accordance with principles and guidelines agreed with the Association 
and pursuant to a time-bound action plan, satisfactory to the Association, which shall 
Page  12
be prepared on the basis of said guidelines and furnished to the Association in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3 (ii) of Schedule 1.
D.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about August 31, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 1999, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent $400,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $200,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,400,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
Page  13
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  14
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
