Document of
The World Bank                       FIE Cy
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Rqept No.P-2875-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
August 22, 1980
This document his  resicted distrlbuleu and may be used by reciPents only i the perfonace of
their eMcial duties. Its coDtents may ot Otherwise be dicloed witho  Wdd Bank nthborkrto.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (Rs)
US$1       = Rs 9.90
Rs 1       5 US$0.101
WEIGHTS AND MEASUREMENTS
1 Metric Ton  =  2,204 Pounds
= 1,000 Kilograms
1 Hectare     =  2.47 Acres
1 Cubic Meter = 35.3 Cubic Feet
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
GOP       -    Government of Pakistan
FDFI      -    Federal Directorate for Fertilizer Imports
NFC       -    National Fertilizer Corporation
NFDC      -    National Fertilizer Development Centre
GLOSSARY
Agricultural Terms
Kharif - Summer season from April to September - principal crops are
cotton and rice.
Rabi  - Winter season from October to March - principal crop is wheat.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
Credit Summary
Borrower:                   Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Amount:                     SDR 38.2 million.
(US$50 million equivalent).
Terms:                      Standard.
Purpose:                    To finance the import of fertilizer during FY81
($49.9 M), and to provide consultants' services
($0.1 M) to review management and organization
of the major public sector fertilizer producers
with the view to improve production capacity
utilization. Fertilizer imports would be admini-
stered by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives. The consultants services would
be administered by the National Fertilizer
Corporation of Pakistan.
Estimated Disbursements:                                   US$ Million
FY81
First Quarter
Second Quarter                     15
Third Quarter                      25
Fourth Quarter                     10
Total                        50
Appraisal Report:           None.
This document has. restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
fertilizer imports credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for SDR 38.2
million (US$50.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.  The credit would
finance approximately 13% of the total foreign exchange costs of fertilizer
imports during FY81.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments
and Prospects" (No. 2860-PAK, dated April 15, 1980) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 21, 1980.
3.        Although budgetary and balance of payments problems have persisted,
the past two to three years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. GDP growth during FY78 and FY79 averaged over 6% p.a. and a similar
rate of growth is likely to be attained in FY80. This growth has been accom-
panied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial production well above the
rate of population growth, currently averaging 3% p.a. and by a rapid growth
in exports. Exports increased in real terms by 11% in FY78 and by 20% in
FY79; during FY80 a further 44% increase in current prices over the FY79 level
is expected. Value added in agriculture may rise by 6-7% this year following
increases of 4.2% in FY79 and 2.5% in FY78, and in industry by 4-5% this year
following 9.2% growth in FY78 and 4.2% in FY79. This-performance contrasts
markedly with the economic stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the
growth of GDP averaged only 3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export
growth was negligible.
4.         The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising
rural incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy
changes introduced by the Government have also contributed to the recovery.
5.         In recent years the Government has taken a number of initiatives
to improve agricultural production. Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies. Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices.  At the
same time inputs, particularly fertilizer, have been heavily subsidized
(the Government has recently taken steps to reverse this policy, which is
now creating budgetary problems), and efforts have been made to improve the
1/   Parts I (except paragraph 20) and II are substantially the same as Parts
I and II of the President's Report on the PICIC Industrial Development
Project (No. P-2784-PAK, dated April 24, 1980).



2-
fertilizer distribution system by expanding the marketing network and by ensur-
ing adequate supplies and timely delivery of fertilizer imports. A better
balance between nutrients has also been attained. In addition, the Government
has begun to address the deep-seated problems affecting productivity at the
farm level. A start has been made in improving extension services through
the adoption of the so-called training and visit system. Preliminary reforms
have been initiated to the agricultural research system in line with the find-
ings of a recent USAID/World Bank study. The Government has also accepted
and has begun to act on the main recommendations of a recently completed UNDP
study on irrigated agriculture, which emphasizes the need to improve the
efficiency of the water delivery system through the rehabilitation of distri-
butaries and better scheduling of water deliveries to the farmer; and to expand
the role of the private sector, for example, through the promotion of private
tubewell development in sweet groundwater areas. Other programs--in pesti-
cides, seeds, agricultural credit and farm power--have also been strengthened.
These initiatives are still at an early stage and a breakthrough from the
problems of low productivity at the farm level is yet to take place.
6.        Major changes have been made during the past two to three years in
Government policies in the industrial sector. The policies pursued in the
early and mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the
private sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead indus-
trial investment and growth have been gradually reversed. Most agricultural
processing and some industrial units have been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to private industry against further arbitrary
Government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened. A wide range of incentives including tax holidays, excise and import
duty concessions, easier access to imported raw materials, concessionary
credit and income tax provisions, and direct cash rebates have been granted
to encourage private investment and exports. The investment sanctioning
procedure has been streamlined. These measures have led to an improvement
in private sector confidence and to a sharp increase in proposals for rela-
tively smaller-scale private investment projects, though industrialists are
still hesitant to commit themselves to large-scale investments involving long
pay-back periods.
7.        At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public sector, which has been plagued
by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been completed of the man-
agement and organization of the public sector, and the performance of individ-
ual enterprises. In accordance with the recommendations of these studies, the
Board of Industrial Management (BIM) has been abolished, the number of sector
holding corporations has been reduced from 11 to 8, and boards of directors
have been established at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which
have little prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down.
In addition to the denationalizations mentioned earlier, further public dis-
investment is being considered on a case-by-case basis. A mutual fund has
been formed for the sale of equity holdings in public sector enterprises to
private investors.
8..       The higher level of economic activity during the past two to three
years and the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new



taxes and reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues from 15%
of GNP in FY77 to 17% in FY80. Nevertheless, the budget has remained under
strain as expenditures have risen as rapidly as revenues. The Government's
policies of encouraging production and exports through subsidized inputs and
export rebates, and the political constraints to making price adjustments on
a number of items of mass consumption, have inflated subsidies. Rising debt
service, following the expiration of the four-year debt relief arrangement
with member countries of the Pakistan Consortium at the end of FY78, and
increased defense spending have contributed to the growth in non-development
expenditures. In addition, commitments under the ongoing public investment
program and higher subsidies for agriculture led to further increases in
development spending between FY77 and FY79. Despite the increased revenues,
budget deficits remained around 3-4% of GNP.
9.        An improvement in the situation occurred during FY80.  The FY80
budget presentation in June 1979 included major new revenue measures which are
expected to yield about Rs 4.6 billion. In addition, substantial increases
were announced in domestic prices of petroleum products last December, in
railway fares in January and in fertilizer prices in February. The Govern-
ment has also been making a determined effort to restrain both development
and non-development expenditures, and supplementary allocations have so far
been negligible. While post-budget increases in import prices and other
exogenous factors (including expenditure on Afghan refugees) added to budget
outlays, improved revenues and additional external assistance from the IMF's
Trust Fund and from Saudi Arabia limited the domestically financed budget
deficit to about Rs 4.0 billion in FY80, equal to less than 2% of GNP.
10.       Pakistan's export performance has improved considerately in recent
years, although its share of world exports still remains below the level of
the early 1970s. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from
US$578 million in FY77 to an estimated US$1,600 million in, FY80, have also
greatly assisted the external position. These increases have, however, been
offset by a rapid increase in the value of imports, mainly POL, fertilizer,
edible oil and capital goods. The current account deficit is expected to
remain around US$1,010 million or 4% of GNP in FY80, compared to US$1,050
million or nearly 7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices. The financing of
these deficits has become more difficult since program-type assistance from
OPEC countries (which was substantial in the mid-1970s) as well as net aid
flows from Consortium sources have declined.
11.       The balance of payments presents the Pakistan Government with its
most intractable problem. With imports roughly double the level of exports,
exports must rise at a substantially faster rate than imports simply to pre-
vent a worsening in the sizable foreign trade deficit--a task made even more
difficult by the sharp increase in the petroleum import bill. Secondly, fol-
lowing the termination of the 1974-78 rescheduling agreement, debt service
payments have increased sharply. In these circumstances, Pakistan has been
fortunate that substantial workers' remittances have helped to alleviate
the pressure on the external account. However, the growth of workers' remit-
tances seems to have slowed down; short-term borrowing is already relatively
high at around US$350 million; and foreign exchange reserves remain low. It
is difficult to see how the deficits in prospect in FY81 and subsequent years



- 4 -
could be financed without further major efforts by the Government to reduce
demand pressures, increase savings and encourage production and exports; and
without a substantial increase in external assistance at the same time.
12.       Thus, notwithstanding recent improvements in output and exports
and in the overall management of the economy, financial difficulties persist.
To a considerable extent these difficulties reflect continuing pressures on
resources, despite rapid output growth and the Government's efforts to restrain
public investment. These pressures have led to substantial imbalances between
savings and investments and between exports and imports, which have been reflec-
ted in sizable budgetary and balance of payments deficits. Further measures
appear essential if these and other basic issues limiting economic growth in
the longer term are to be adequately addressed. These issues include the farm-
level factors affecting low productivity in agriculture; the structure and
competitiveness of the industrial sector; the factors lying behind continued
rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service expenditures;
the inadequate performance of public sector enterprises; the problems of
public resource mobilization; and the large trade deficits.
13.       Agriculture remains the economy's mainstay, accounting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing about 60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite the
recent recovery in output, a number of fundamental factors continue to limit
agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied by the
resources and technologies already available. Generally, output growth has
not been commensurate with the substantial increases in inputs, especially
water and fertilizer. Average yields for most crops have not improved over
the last decade although some improvement has taken place in wheat yields.
While considerable potential still exists for the additional use of fertilizer
and other inputs, it appears essential to give greater priority to evolving
complementary policies and programs which would have a direct impact on yields
at the farm level. The importance of increasing farm productivity is now more
widely recognized in the Government and a beginning has been made in address-
ing this problem.  Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research,
extension, water management and other programs in the agriculture and water
sectors needs to be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be further
reduced, accompanied by necessary adjustments in output and consumer prices.
14.       Industry contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the 1950s
and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in manufacturing
production, though recently better, remain well below those attained in the
1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts for about 40% of
value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from problems of inefficiency,
excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in foreign markets, while manu-
facturing growth generally has been affected by the unsatisfactory performance
of public sector enterprises. While there has recently been a sharp increase
in private investment sanctions, it remains to be seen whether these will lead
to a substantial improvement in actual capital expenditures. To maintain the
increased momentum in the industrial sector will require, among other things,
a plentiful supply of foreign exchange both for investments and current inputs.
At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive
system supports those industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage,



- 5 -
and more analysis is needed to determine levels of effective protection for
formulating an appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s. IT7e
recovery in industry also needs to be reinforced by improvement in labor-
management relations and by further measures to rehabilitate the textile
industry, to improve the performance of the public sector and to increase
exports.
15.       The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjut--
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with encouraging success.  Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained
by the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources. At the same
time, activity in the oil sector has been stepped up, in some instances through
joint ventures with foreign private companies. Domestic programs for explora-
tion and development of mineral fuels, as well as other energy sources, hold
out the hope of a considerable improvement in Pakistan's balance of payments
outlook in the late 1980s.
16.       While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the commodity-
producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in popula-
tion, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously handicapped the
country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning programs have
had little effect and there have been few changes in the socio-economic environ-
ment of a type that usually accompany declines in fertility. Rapid population
growth places severe burdens on Government resources simply to maintain educa-
tion and health programs at their current inadequate standards. However,
without higher literacy rates,.improved health facilities and a reduction
in child mortality, it is doubtful that population growth rates can be much
reduced. Expenditures on social services remain comparatively low and undue
emphasis has been given to higher education and urban health facilities. High
priority needs therefore to be given not only to increased allocations for
family planning and social service expenditure but also to its redirection
to serve the wider interests of the population and the economy. While the
substantial migration from Pakistan to the Middle East over the past few years
has to some extent relieved the pressures resulting from rapid population
growth, this clearly cannot be relied upon to provide an answer to such complex
problems in the long run.
17.       Policies that face the longer term issues in both the productive
and the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will
have to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external
resource constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments a
fundamental improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the eco-
nomy, particularly in public savings. Although national savings at around
11% of GNP are substantially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s,
there has been little improvement over the past two years. The continuation
of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending and encourage
private investment will help to reduce present imbalances between investment
and savings flows, while increased opportunities for private investment should
attract resources from less productive uses. At the same time, an increase in
savings inevitably calls for restraining private consumption through appro-
priate price adjustments and selective duty increases on non-essential imports.
While the Government has made several price increases in recent months, for



example, in POL and fertilizer prices and railway fares, further adjustments
will directly reduce the budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints
on development spending and measures to further improve revenues through
improvements in tax administration and tax and rate increases, for example,
property taxes, water rates and irrigation water charges, are also needed.
18.       Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for example, pulses, pota-
toes, onions and fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring countries.
In addition, substantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's exports of
manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as well as of a
wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industries sector. Increased
domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels and fertilizer would
help to moderate import growth considerably.
19.       Total external debt outstanding at the end of 1979 amounted to about
US$7.8 billion, of which US$4.7 billion was due to bilateral members of the
Pakistan Consortium, US$1.1 billion to OPEC, US$1.3 billion to multilateral
agencies and the balance to other bilateral and private lenders. Contractual
debt service to multilateral and bilateral aid agencies rose from US$313 mil-
lion in FY73 to US$397 million in FY78, although the burden of these payments
was eased to US$200 and US$261 million, respectively, as a result of debt
relief arrangements. The four-year debt relief agreement with Consortium
countries expired on June 30, 1978, and as no further agreement was reached,
debt service payments rose sharply to about US$500 million in FY79. Contrac-
tual payments in FY80 are expected to amount to US$650 million and considerably
more in subsequent years. As a proportion of exports, non-factor service
payments and workers' remittances, debt service rose from about 15% in the
FY75-77 period to around 17.5% in FY79. Pakistan obviously needs to exercise
care in protecting its ability to borrow to meet future requirements and to
restrict commercial borrowing to a minimum. For this reason, Bank Group lend-
ing to Pakistan is currently confined to IDA credits. Pakistan's debt to the
Bank and IDA at the end of FY79 was about 14% of its external public indebted-
ness. The share of the Bank Group in total debt service is now about 9%.
The Case for Program Assistance
20.       As discussed above, despite the recent improvements in economic
performance, a substantial deficit remains in Pakistan's balance of payments.
For FY81, an estimated external financing gap in the order of $400 million
is in prospect after allowing for increased indications of both project and
non-project aid at the recent meeting of the Pakistan Consortium. The Govern-
ment of Pakistan has recently invited the IMF to enter into negotiations
for an Extended Fund Facility Agreement. Such an agreement could provide
substantial balance of payments support over the next three years; it would
be accompanied by a commitment on the part of the Government to embark on
the structural reforms which would be necessary to achieve long-term balance
in the economy. In addition, bilateral creditor members of the Pakistan
Consortium have indicated that, if an EFF agreement were reached, they would
be prepared to negotiate limited debt rescheduling. These initiatives hold



- 7 -
out prospects for filling part of the external financing gap in FY81 and
beyond. Nonetheless, there continues to be an urgent need for additional
rapidly disbursable assistance to cover the balance of payment requirements.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
21.       The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately $1.8 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy. This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water
resources of the Indus Basin. Through FY79, 38% of total Bank/IDA commitments
to Pakistan were for public utility services, 30% for agriculture, 31% for
industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for education.
Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for rail-
ways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications and
water supply.
22.       Lending operations in Pakistan have three main objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly, to support
the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are responsible for,
the principal public services supporting economic growth; and thirdly, to meet
basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
23.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of essen-
tial inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
improving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and water-
logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, livestock
development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending is to
assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of available land
and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding investments, as
recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the Bank was Executing
Agency.
24.       In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through ten loans/credits amounting to US$233 million
for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC). Direct
lending for industry has been limited to three large fertilizer plants. Proj-
ects are envisaged for further increasing domestic fertilizer capacity, as well
as for small-scale industry. IFC has made investments in 13 Pakistan enter-
prises for a total of US$70.2 million, of which US$60.7 million was by way of
loans and US$9.5 million by equity participations (these are shown in Annex
II). About US$35.9 million remains outstanding. The enterprises assisted
by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in textiles
and one each in cement, steel, fertilizers, food processing, plastics, wood
processing and petrochemicals. IFC is also a shareholder in PICIC.



- 8 -
25.       The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications
has shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the insti-
tutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port Trust,
Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and Provin-
cial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has assisted the
Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and Power Development
Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respectively; the sector has
also been assisted by the construction under the Indus Basin Development
Program of Mangla and Tarbela dams.
26.       In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a pet-
roleum development project and begun to play an important role in strengthen-
ing the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are assisting in
the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic energy
resources. In the field of urban development, Bank Group missions have worked
with the municipal planning authorities of Karachi and Lahore, Pakistan's major
cities, and following UNDP and IDA-financed technical assistance efforts, a
project is now under preparation for Lahore. A second water supply project
in Lahore is currently under implementation. Four IDA credits for education,
totalling US$41.5 million, have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary
and higher technical and agricultural education, middle-level training of
primary teachers and agricultural extension agents.
27.       Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of July 31, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Credit
and loan disbursement has been generally satisfactory. Some projects have
experienced initial delays due to Government procedures for project approval,
which are now under review, and to slowness in appointment of consultants.
The Government has recently increased the rates charged by some public util-
ities to improve their financial position. Rapid turnover of managerial and
technical staff, in part due to migration to the Middle East, and budgetary
constraints have been problems in the case of some projects.
28.       A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
vocational training, agriculture research, small industries, water management
and irrigation and flood rehabilitation. Pakistan continues to have domestic
resource constraints for the reasons set out in Part I. To assist the Govern-
ment to finance agriculture and other high-priority projects which have a low
foreign exchange component, financing of some local expenditures in specific
cases is justified.
29.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakistan
on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.



PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   General
30.       Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy; it accounts
for roughly one third of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force and,
directly or indirectly, provides nearly two thirds of Pakistan's exports,
principally cotton and rice. The irrigated area accounts for about 90%
of farm output. The complex irrigation system based on the Indus and its
tributaries covers an area of about 34 million acres and constitutes the
largest integrated irrigation system in the world.
31.       The principal objectives of GOP's agricultural development efforts
are to achieve food self-sufficiency, improve rural incomes and nutritional
standards, and increase export earnings. GOP's strategy for the sector
emphasizes strengthening rural infrastructure and institutions, upgrading
research and extension services, expansion of farm input supplies, better
utilization of existing irrigation facilities through water management and
watercourse improvements, and the overall improvement of agricultural output
through low cost, short-gestation investments.
Recent Developments
32.       Agricultural growth in Pakistan during the 1960s averaged almost
6% per year, mainly due to the introduction of high-yielding varieties of
rice and wheat, increased use of chemical fertilizer and increased supplies
of irrigation water through public, and private tubewells. During the first
seven years of the 1970s, agriculture's growth at about 1.5% per annum failed
to keep pace with the growth of population; but during the last three years
growth performance has been encouraging: value added in agriculture increased
by 2.5% in FY78, 4.2% in FY79 and about 6.2% in FY80. This growth mainly
reflects the improved performance of major crops, which account for nearly 60%
of value added in agriculture. Reasonably good cotton crops in two out of the
last three years, a recovery in wheat in FY79 following rust attack in the
preceding year, and consistently good rice harvests have contributed to the
recent growth in agricultural output which represents a rebound from depressed
crop yields in the case of cotton and wheat, and the effects of continued
acreage expansion, particularly in rice and wheat. The acreage under rice
increased by 15% between FY77 and FY79 and that under wheat by 5% over the
same period. While per-acre yields in wheat rose sharply in FY79 over the
depressed level of the previous year, the improvement over the more normal
level of FY77 was 3%, and for rice about 4%. Per-acre yields in cotton have
been erratic and do not provide a clear trend, while per-acre yields in
sugarcane have declined.
33.       Supportive government policies as well as favorable weather have
contributed to the recent recovery in agriculture. An important instrument
of GOP agricultural policy has been the provision of subsidized inputs. In
recent years the quantities of key inputs made available to agriculture,
especially fertilizer, have been greatly enhanced and there have been improve-
ments in the timeliness of their delivery. Steps to improve the efficiency of



- 10 -
fertilizer distribution by denationalizing the sales system and expanding
the dealer network were taken by the Government during the mid-1970s. In
addition, the National Logistics Cell, created in 1978, has been successful
in expediting the unloading and transfer up-country of imported fertilizer.
Marketing incidentals allowed to provincial agencies and dealers distributing
imported fertilizer have been substantially increased. These various measures,
together with the heavy subsidy on fertilizer, have led to both a substantial
increase in fertilizer offtake and a better balance between nitrogen and
phosphate usage.
34.       A program of procuring and supplying improved seeds for the prin-
cipal crops through government agencies has been in operation for several
years. Following the serious outbreak of rust in 1978, heavy emphasis has
been placed on the provision of rust-resistant wheat seed varieties. In FY79,
15,000 tons of seed of rust-resistant wheats were imported; the use of these
seeds was concentrated in locations particularly susceptible to the disease.
In the case of cotton, the coverage by the Government seed program has been
substantial, though the quality of this seed is mixed. A major project to
improve the supply of quality seeds for the principal crops is under imple-
mentation with support from IDA (Credit No. 620-PAK).
35.       Although the area sprayed against pests and diseases has increased
over the years, the effectiveness of plant protection activities has been
limited by inappropriate application techniques and the poor quality of
pesticides employed. Starting in 1978, the Government has reduced aerial
spraying and placed more emphasis on ground application by farmers themselves.
To complement this, the Government now allows the private sector to import and
sell pesticides and is phasing out its own involvement in plant protection.
Subsidies on pesticides are being substantially eliminated. As part of the
Government's Cotton Maximization Scheme, a pest scouting campaign was launched
last kharif season. Under this scheme, mobile teams of extension workers and
staff drawn from agricultural institutes have been organized for the early
detection of pest attacks. This program, which is to be a permanent feature,
could have a major impact in improving pest control in cotton.
36.       The supply of institutional credit to agriculture has increased
significantly in recent years. Credit is provided by the Agricultural Devel-
opment Bank of Pakistan (ADBP) and commercial and cooperative banks. New
initiatives were taken by ADBP in FY79 to increase the volume of credit
to small farmers. In addition, a program to provide interest-free credit to
small farmers through agricultural cooperatives was implemented in Punjab.
The ceiling for loans for fertilizer purchases has been raised from Rs 5,000
to Rs 7,500 per farmer to allow for the recent sharp increase in fertilizer
prices (see paragraph 39).
37.       The Government's strategy of increasing input supplies has been
complemented by improved irrigation water availability. Farmgate water avail-
ability in FY80 was 30% higher than the level of the mid-1970s, reflecting
the commissioning of the Tarbela Dam and the completion of tubewell and other
irrigation programs.



- 11 -
38.       Action has recently been taken in some long-neglected areas which
are critical to improving productivity in agriculture. The training and visit
system of agricultural extension has been adopted in Punjab and Sind, although
the new programs are experiencing teething troubles; and a number of reforms
have been made in the organization and execution of agricultural research.
In addition, emphasis has been given to coordinating the activities of the
irrigation and agriculture departments, both to improve the efficiency of
water use and to schedule water releases to match crop requirements. These
initiatives, though still in their early stages, would provide substantial
returns in the long run.
39.       Price incentives to farmers were inadequate through the mid-1970s
due to low procurement prices and export taxation. The situation has changed
since. Fertilizer prices were reduced by 5-6% in October 1978, and between
then and the beginning of 1980 support prices were raised for wheat, sugarcane
and rice by about 22% and for cotton by 10-12%. Although fertilizer prices
were increased in February 1980 by about 50%, in order to reduce the subsidy
burden on the Budget (see below), this was compensated by an increase in the
support price for sugarcane by 29% and subsequently by increases in support
prices for Basmati rice, IRRI rice, and cotton of 17%, 20% and 8%, respec-
tively. The support price for wheat was increased nominally by 3.3% in April
but the Government has stated its firm intention to review the price again in
September 1980. Export taxes, except those on rice, have been eliminated.
As a result of these various changes, output prices in Pakistan are now closer
to world levels, and farmer incentives remain satisfactory.
Constraints and Potential
40.       As indicated above, a number of measures have been taken to address
the fundamental problems limiting productivity in agriculture. To fully
realize Pakistan's agricultural potential and to ensure agricultural growth
on a more sustained basis, however, it will be necessary to build on the
progress that has been achieved.
41.       In May 1979, a UNDP-financed study entitled "A Revised Action Pro-
gramme for Irrigated Agriculture," for which the Bank was Executing Agency,
was completed. This study has generated considerable discussion within the
Government on development strategies and investment priorities in the agri-
cultural sector, and many of the recent adjustments that have been made by
the Government are consistent with the report's principal recommendations.
The report recommends the adoption of:
(a) pricing policies that reflect real resource costs. This
will require the gradual elimination of subsidies, in
particular the fertilizer subsidy, which now consumes
most of the development funds allocated to the agricul-
tural sector. Crucial to the success of such policies
would be the continuing review and adjustment of output
prices to ensure adequate producer incentives, and the
continued development of credit facilities to avoid the
financial constraints that may prevent farmers from using
higher-priced inputs;



- 12 -
(b) management policies that would transfer a number of
operations and facilities now in the public domain
to the private sector, thus generating private savings,
releasing public sector resources for other purposes
and leading to greater productive efficiency. A major
area for greater private involvement is the exploitation
of fresh groundwater; and
(c) investment policies which would improve the utilization
of existing irrigation facilities rather than create
new facilities.  In the water sector, the UNDP report
recommends that major emphasis be placed on rehabilitation
of the irrigation system and more efficient water manage-
ment. In the agricultural sector, investments in agri-
cultural research, extension services, seed certification,
livestock development and the provision of rural roads and
electrification should have priority.
42.      The Government has already begun to implement the principal recom-
mendations of the UNDP report by emphasizing improved institutional coordi-
nation between irrigation and agriculture and the importance of water manage-
ment, extension, credit, research and seed supply; the pursuit of these
objectives has, in part, been responsible for the recent upturn in agricul-
tural production. While the beginnings of a more critical GOP approach to
investment priorities, resource generation and the relative roles of the
private and public sectors are evident, significant problems still remain in
the size of the fertilizer subsidy and the translation of the new approach
into investment programming.
43.       In a letter on agricultural development strategy from the Finance
Minister to the Regional Vice President, (attached at Annex V, Appendix A),
the Government has confirmed (in paragraphs 4-10) that the prospects of
continuing resource constraints in the next few years make it essential that
it redefines and focuses more sharply its priorities in the agricultural
sector, while aiming to phase out the fertilizer subsidy by mid-1985 and
making necessary compensating adjustments in crop prices. In general, the
Government has stated that its revised strategy should aim at conserving
available resources and yield maximum impact on production in the short to
medium term. It has started a review of programs in the agriculture sector
that takes into account the need to shift the emphasis from subsidies and
long-gestation projects to programs designed to bring about improvements in
cropping practices, water conservation, and the proper maintenance and optimum
utilization of existing infrastructure. As a matter of general policy, new
commitments are to be focused on projects addressing these needs so that the
principal constraints on agricultural production would be released. The
modification and/or rescheduling of ongoing capital-intensive and long-
gestation projects is under consideration with a view to conserving resources
and making funds available for projects and programs that conform with the
revised strategy.



- 13 -
B.   The Fertilizer Subsector
44.      Fertilizer consumption in Pakistan has increased by 20% per year over
the last 20 years (Annex IV, Table 1), from about 40,000 nutrient tons in 1961
to just over 1 million tons in 1979/80. 1/ Per-acre use has also increased--
the present level of 24 kg per acre represents an almost four-fold increase
over the last decade; during the same period the nitrogen-phosphate ratio
improved from 5.2 to 3.6. The growth of agricultural output has been strong3y
correlated with the growth of fertilizer consumption and an approximate
elasticity of 0.25 is indicated. The benefits of the growing use of fertilizer
have been shared by small as well as large farmers; surveys show that farms of
less than 12.5 acres use as much or more fertilizer per acre as farms in the
larger size groups. Despite the rapid growth in fertilizer consumption,
however, present application rates are still only 50%, 21% and 4% of the
average requirements for nitrogen, phosphate and potassium, respectively. The
continued encouragement of the use of fertilizer remains accordingly a central
part of Pakistan's agricultural development strategy.
Domestic Fertilizer Industry
45.       There are now six fertilizer plants (two in the private and four
in the public sector) in operation producing about 350,000 nutrient tons of
nitrogenous fertilizer and about 48,000 nutrient tons of phosphate. The manu-
facture of fertilizers in Pakistan was first undertaken by a Government-owned
corporation which established three small factories between 1958 and 1962;
these are now operated by the public sector National Fertilizer Corporation
(NFC). The Bank-assisted Pakarab Multan Expansion Project, also operated by
NFC, started production in January 1979; its capacity is 59,400 tons per year
(tpy) of urea, 304,500 tpy of nitrophos, and 450,000 tpy of calcium ammonium
nitrate. Esso built the first privately-owned fertilizer factory (capacity
173,000 tpy of urea) in 1968. The second was the Bank/IFC-financed joint
venture Dawood Hercules Project which commenced production in 1972 (capacity
345,000 tpy of urea).
46.       Three new urea plants are at various stages of construction.  The
NFC Paksaudi plant (capacity 574,200 tpy of urea), constructed with financial
assistance from Saudi Arabia, is presently being commissioned; the NFC Hazara
plant supplied by the People's Republic of China (capacity 95,700 tpy of urea)
and the private sector IDA-assisted Fauji Project (capacity 569,250 tpy of
urea) are expected to commence production in mid-1981 and 1982, respectively.
Domestic fertilizer production is thus expected to increase to 885,000 nutrient
tons per year of nitrogen and 74,000 nutrient tons per year of phosphate by
1982/83.
47.       Pakistan's exposure to adverse external developments in fertilizer
could be significantly reduced by the further expansion and effective operation
of domestic fertilizer production capacity. The Government has agreed to
take necessary measures to attain high capacity utilization of the existing
fertilizer plants and new plants being set up in the public domain; a plan of
I/   Tabulated data and other information on the fertilizer subsector is
provided in Annex IV.



- 14 -
action to achieve this objective will be implemented (paragraph 77). The
Government is also formulating plans for further investment in the fertilizer
sector over the next decade and, in this context, will assess the adequacy of
pricing policies and other incentives for the fertilizer industry. Bank staff
will continue to discuss with GOP plans for investment designed to increase
domestic capacity for the production of fertilizers and the pricing and
taxation policies which will apply to any such investments.
48.      Manufacturers' sales revenues for fertilizer are set on the basis of
agreements between each manufacturer and GOP. The formulae established under
each agreement differ but generally allow each manufacturer after-tax profits
of between 15% and 20% on their respective original share capital provided
specified levels of output (typically between 65-70% of design capacity in
the first year of operation, 80-90% in the second year, and 90-95% thereafter)
are reached. Sales prices and marketing incidentals allowed to domestic
producers vary widely, ranging at present from Rs 893 per ton of urea for
Dawood Hercules to Rs 2,006 per ton of urea for the Multan plant. Differences
in the interpretation of these pricing agreements have occurred, notably in
the case of Dawood Hercules, which have contributed to the reluctance of the
private sector to invest in new capacity. This issue was discussed during
negotiations and the need for resolution of the questions of profit margins
and investment incentives for private sector fertilizer manufacturers was
conveyed to GOP representatives. It was also noted that this was important
for promotion of private sector investment in fertilizer production to meet
Pakistan's increasing demands.
Fertilizer Demand and Imports
49.      Currently, about 60% of Pakistan's requirements of fertilizers are
imported. Given expected levels of domestic production in the mid-1980s and
an expected demand of nearly 2 million nutrient tons by FY86, imports would
constitute 50% of supplies in FY86, after declining to about 40% in FY83.
Thus, until substantial additional investments in domestic fertilizer capacity
are made, imports of fertilizer will remain a significant component of total
supply.
50.      Fertilizer imports are made by the Federal Directorate for Fertilizer
Imports (FDFI) which is a unit of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Coop-
eratives (MFAC). Fertilizer import requirements are estimated by MFAC,
assisted by advice from the National Fertilizer Development Centre (NFDC)
of the Planning Division. After review at senior levels in the Government,
import targets are set and a financing plan is prepared that is incorporated
in GOP's annual foreign exchange budget. The financing plan takes into account
the availability of external sources of financing and GOP's own foreign ex-
change position. The plan is revised on a quarterly basis in the light of
trends in world prices and the availability of foreign exchange reserves to
finance cash purchases.
51.      A Fertilizer Tender Committee chaired by the Additional Secretary of
MFAC is responsible for the procurement of imported fertilizer which (except
where aid donors stipulate a source of supply) is obtained through a system
of international competitive bidding. Tenders are called for in the case of
all prospective contracts and the invitations are advertised locally. Responses
to tender inquiries are obtained from a worldwide range of manufacturers, most



- 15 -
of whom have agents in Pakistan. The FDFI analyzes the responses for the
Tender Committee. Following the contract choice decision by the Committee,
a letter of intent is issued and a contract for the supply of fertilizer is
drawn up which includes a detailed schedule of shipments; such planning is
important due to constraints on the capacities of the port and transportation
systems.
52.      The FDFI is responsible for the unloading and port clearance of
imported fertilizer, and for its shipment to dealers by rail or by trucks.
Fertilizer is transferred to dealer organizations at the retail prices fixed
for each product by GOP less a fixed dealer margin. Since these transfer
prices are well below the current c.i.f. price for all imported products, the
FDFI incurs a substantial operating loss which is financed from the GOP
development budget.
53.       The continuing tight restrictions on the availability of foreign
exchange reserves has made it difficult for Pakistan to plan its procurement
of fertilizer in advance. In recent years there has been extensive resort to
expensive short-term suppliers' credits to finance the purchase of fertilizers.
The proposed Credit would increase the Government's flexibility in planning
the purchase of fertilizers in FY81.
Fertilizer Distribution
54.      Fertilizer is imported into Pakistan through Karachi Port and moved
by rail and road to central distribution points; from these points it is
transported by road and rail to wholesale outlets and retail stores. Most road
haulage is handled by the privately-owned road haulage industry, which is
highly competitive. Pakistan's road network provides reasonable access to the
rural areas. Transportation issues related to moving fertilizer from existing
and prospective manufacturing facilities were studied by a Fertilizer Transpor-
tation Task Force in 1979 in accordance with understandings reached with IDA
as part of the Fauji Fertilizer Project (Credit No. 846). The Task Force made
a number of recommendations concerning rail and road transport, storage, and
plant and railhead handling facilities (paragraph 78). The recommendations
include the use of unit trains of approximately 60 wagons for delivery of
fertilizer to selected destinations and the construction by fertilizer produ-
cers and/or GOP of depots at these destinations. The Fauji Fertilizer Company
is considering the construction of three 10,000 ton storages and NFC is
planning to construct two 13,000 ton depots; its future plans include four
additional warehouses at various rail centers.
55.      Fertilizer storage capacity at Karachi Port is only about 10,000
tons, but GOP operates a 200,000 ton fertilizer warehouse at Pipri, 20 miles
from the port. Existing fertilizer plants and those under construction have
on-site storage equivalent to approximately one month's production. There are
very few other large fertilizer warehouses and rented godowns are used that
typically have capacities of from 20 to 1,000 tons. While the present ferti-
lizer storage situation is generally satisfactory, a survey of the situation
is being made by GOP to determine further investment requirements.
56.       After a period during which fertilizer distribution was largely
handled by Government agencies, major changes to permit greater private
participation were introduced in 1975. The principal measures were:



- 16 -
Distribution was partially denationalized and the licensing
of dealer applicants simplified;
Private sector distributors were given access to imported
phosphates to enable them to offer farmers a full range of
nitrogenous and phosphatic products;
Private dealers were given the right to buy fertilizer
stocks from both public and private wholesalers;
-    Marketing margins for dealers were increased;
-    Geographic restrictions on marketing of fertilizer by
private producers were removed; and
-    The rigid provincial allocation system, which often left one
province in surplus while another was in short supply, was
substantially modified.
57.       The changes proved effective and the number of licensed private
dealers rose rapidly, reaching currently about 5,000. In addition to licensed
dealers, many village merchants handling other goods also distribute fertilizer.
Following the increase in the retail price of fertilizers, the allowable dealer
margins for private distributors have been increased from Rs 40 to Rs 50 per
ton.
Fertilizer Pricing and the Fertilizer Subsidy
58.      Retail prices of fertilizer are fixed by GOP and are uniform through-
out the country. Since 1972, GOP has gradually increased- fertilizer prices;
urea prices, for example, have increased from Rs 1.5 per kg nutrient in 1972
to Rs 4.04 per kg nutrient in 1980. However, GOP has shielded domestic
prices from the post-1973 explosion in world fertilizer prices, resulting
in a substantial increase in the fertilizer subsidy bill. The growth in
the subsidy is shown by the following table:
SUBSIDY COSTS OF FERTILIZER
Fertilizer        Fertilizer Subsidy
Subsidy          as % of Agricultural
Year                     (US$ Million)      Development Program
1976/77                          9                       6
1977/78                         62                      43
1978/79                        169                      69
1979/80 (Est.)                225                       73
1980/81 (Proj.)                242                      69



- 17 -
59.        In 1979/80, the fertilizer subsidy comprised about 73% of the
entire development budget for agriculture and it has reached levels where
it is seriously constraining other critical developments in the agricultural
sector. The substantial increase in fertilizer prices introduced by the Gov-
ernment in February 1980 (see paragraph 39 above) represented a major first
step to contain the subsidy at manageable levels. Further measures to follow
up this important initiative will be required while at the same time ensuring
that the demand for fertilizer is not depressed.
60.       Fertilizer is used by farmers when they expect that the value of
the incremental crop will exceed the cost of the fertilizer used to obtain
that increment. Given the complexity of the agricultural production process,
a significant margin to cover risk is also needed. A widely used measure of
the return on using fertilizer is the value cost ratio (VCR). This is defined
as the ratio of the incremental value and cost; a VCR of 2 represents a 100%
return on the investment made in applying fertilizer. In Pakistan (and other
developing countries) it is held generally that the VCR should not be less
than about 3. Data collected by the National Fertilizer Development Centre
indicates that this ratio remains close to or above 3 for all major crops
following the 50% increase in fertilizer prices and the compensating increases
in crop procurement prices which took place in the early part of 1980.
61.       Although the use of fertilizer has remained financially attractive
following the recent changes in fertilizer and crop prices, the sharp increase
in fertilizer prices appears to have been responsible for an initial reduction
in fertilizer offtake compared to the corresponding months for 1979. In
response, the Government stepped up extension and promotion efforts to pub-
licize the continued benefits of fertilizer use to farmers and to improve the
efficiency of fertilizer which is applied to crops in order to further improve
value cost ratios. These efforts are being backed by measures to improve the
availability of credit to farmers. The program to provide interest-free
seasonal credit has been continued and extended. The ceiling for loans for
fertilizer purchases has been raised (paragraph 36). The margins allowed to
private sector distributors have also been increased (paragraph 57). In addi-
tion, the National Logistics Cell (NLC) has been empowered to supervise the
internal transport of fertilizers in order to ensure that fertilizer is avail-
able to distributors during periods of peak demand. There is some evidence
that these measures to overcome the shock caused by the increased cost of
fertilizer are beginning to succeed. The fertilizer offtake figures for June
showed a sharp recovery from the earlier months of 1980. GOP plans to boost
this recovery by the announcement of an increase in wheat prices before the
start of the coming Rabi sowing season. The extent of recovery in the growth
of fertilizer use will be the key consideration in the February 1981 review
of fertilizer prices.
Bank Group Involvement
62.       The Bank Group has financed three operations in Pakistan to assist
the fertilizer industry. A loan (US$32 million), along with an IFC equity in-
vestment (US$2.9 million), was made in July 1968 to Dawood Hercules Chemicals
Limited for a 345,000 tpy urea plant. The plant began production in July
1971, and has consistently operated above its rated capacity. A second loan



- 18 -
(US$35 million) was made in May 1974 to the public sector company Pakarab
Fertilizer Limited to expand and modernize its existing facilities at Multan.
This plant, with a design capacity of 304,500 tpy of nitrophos, 450,000 tpy
of calcium ammonium nitrate and 59,400 tpy of urea was mechanically completed
in late 1978. As discussed below (paragraph 77), however, the plant is operat-
ing below capacity due to design problems, which are in the process of being
rectified, and lack of sufficiently qualified and experienced managerial and
technical personnel; a plan of action to improve the utilization levels at
the plant has been agreed and the status of its implementation is to be
reviewed at the time of negotiations. The third project, for which IDA made
a US$55 million Credit in September 1978, comprises a natural gas-based urea
plant with a capacity of 569,250 tpy and other facilities being built by the
Fauji Fertilizer Company. The project is scheduled to be completed by
December 31, 1981, about six months later than estimated at appraisal, due
mainly to initial delays in project planning and coordination, procurement
and the build-up of construction activities; project management at Fauji has
been strengthened substantially and the company has hired qualified staff who
are being trained for eventual plant operations.
PART IV - THE CREDIT
63.       The proposed Credit was appraised by a mission which visited
Pakistan from May 30 to June 18, 1980. Bank missions also visited Pakistan
in December 1979 and in April 1980 to discuss with GOP its investment programs
in agriculture and the issue of the fertilizer subsidy. These various discus-
sions have contributed to important policy changes by GOP in the agriculture
sector (paragraph 65). The Credit was negotiated in Washington in August
1980; the Pakistan delegation was led by Mr. Ejaz Ahmad Naik, Secretary of the
Planning and Development Division. Further information on the Credit is
given in Annexes III and V.
64.      The proposed Credit will help GOP to meet the costs of imports of
finished fertilizer in FY81 and to carry out a study of the organization and
staffing of the public sector fertilizer industry with a view towards increas-
ing capacity utilization (paragraph 47). The planned target for fertilizer
imports for FY81 is 700,000 nutrient tons at an estimated foreign exchange
cost of US$400 million. Actions to be undertaken by GOP in connection with
the Credit would include measures to restrict and eventually eliminate the
fertilizer subsidy.
65.       GOP has already taken a number of important steps to modify its
policies in the agriculture sector.  These include:
(a) a 50% increase in retail prices of fertilizer in February
1980 (paragraph 39);
(b) price increases for sugarcane, rice, cotton, and wheat to
compensate for the higher cost of fertilizer, and a 25%
increase in fertilizer dealers' margins (paragraphs 39
and 76);



- 19 -
(c) elimination of the subsidy on pesticides and privatization
of their distribution (paragraph 35);
(d) enunciation of a revised agricultural development strategy
(paragraph 43) that includes the aim of gradually reducing
all input subsidies except when regional or income consid-
erations require their continued use, and reorienting the
agricultural investment program towards quick-yielding
projects and essential farmer support services;
(e) removal of the fertilizer subsidy from the agricultural
development budget to protect agricultural development
activities that in the past have been cut back due to the
sharp growth in fertilizer subsidy costs (paragraph 79); and
(f) a decision to establish an Agricultural Prices Commission
(paragraph 80).
66.       In connection with the proposed Credit, the Government would follow
up these reforms to agricultural policy by taking further actions to strengthen
fertilizer pricing and related matters described in paragraphs 67 to 75 below.
In addition, preparation and negotiation of the proposed Credit provided a
forum for consultation between GOP and IDA regarding other critical issues
relating to fertilizer and agricultural development. These include investment
priorities in the agricultural sector (paragraphs 41-43); the adequacy of crop
procurement prices in providing incentives to farmers (paragraph 80); the
adequacy of fertilizer distribution margins (paragraph 76); the efficiency of
the public sector fertilizer plants (paragraph 77); problems relating to the
sales revenues allowed to private fertilizer companies (paragraph 48); and
fertilizer transportation matters (paragraphs 54 and 78).
Reduction in the Fertilizer Subsidy
67.       By the end of 1979, as a result of the rise in world fertilizer
prices and higher fertilizer use in Pakistan, the fertilizer subsidy bill had
reached unsustainable levels; the substantial increase in fertilizer prices
introduced last February, following review of a technical note on fertilizer
pricing prepared by IDA staff, was an initial step by the Government to
contain the subsidy level. The Government intends to continue these price
adjustments in a phased manner, in conjunction with adjustments to output and
consumer prices, to strengthen the overall budget situation and release funds
for other high priority development expenditures while maintaining adequate
incentives to farmers to continue to increase their use of fertilizer.
68.       The Government will gradually reduce the subsidy per unit of fertil-
izer with the intention of eliminating the subsidy by June 30, 1985 (Section
3.07 (a) of draft Development Credit Agreement). In pursuit of this objective,
the Government intends (paragraph 16 of the letter on agricultural development
strategy attached at Annex V, Appendix A) to:
(i) make such future changes in the retail price of fertilizer as
are required to maintain the current position of a zero net
subsidy on domestically produced fertilizer;



- 20 -
(ii)  make further adjustments to the retail fertilizer price
aimed at lowering subsidies on imported fertilizers so
long as this does not render Pakistan's exports uncompetitive
in world markets, seriously disrupt cropping patterns, or
impose socially unacceptable cost increases; and
(iii)  set fertilizer prices consistent with a demand growth rate of
between 10 and 15% per annum.
69.        The Government and the Association have agreed that, at the request
of either party, they would jointly review the effects of fertilizer price
movements with a view to ensuring continued progress in reducing the per-unit
cost subsidy (Section 3.07 (b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The
Government would also regularly review crop procurement prices, in any event
at the time of any increase in fertilizer prices, and would set crop prices at
levels which would provide adequate production incentives to farmers (Section
3.07 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The first joint review
between GOP and IDA would take place in February 1981, at which time the
effects of the February 1980 fertilizer price increase on fertilizer demand
and crop production would be assessed (Section 3.07 (d) of draft Development
Credit Agreement). The preliminary results of a farm-level survey to be
carried out by the National Fertilizer Development Centre (paragraph 75) would
be considered in this review, as well as information on recent trends in world
fertilizer prices, domestic fertilizer offtake and crop production.
70.        GOP has estimated the FY80 fertilizer subsidy bill at about Rs 2.35
billion; this estimate assumes that total FY80 fertilizer offtake (sales of
fertilizer to dealers) was about 1.05 million tons. For FY81, the projected
fertilizer subsidy bill at post-February 1980 retail prices is about Rs 2.42
billion based on an estimated 14% increase in fertilizer offtake to 1.2 mil-
lion tons. It is estimated that, in the absence of the February 1980 price
increases, the fertilizer subsidy bills for FY80 and FY81 would have been
about Rs 3 billion and Rs 5 billion, respectively.
71.      The actual level of fertilizer subsidy in FY81 will be a function
of the growth of fertilizer offtake, the level of domestic production of
fertilizer and fertilizer import prices. A sensitivity analysis indicates
that the subsidy could range from Rs 2.1 billion to Rs 2.8 billion, or from
35% to 42% per unit of fertilizer, depending on possible movements in these
variables. On an estimated offtake figure of 1.2 million tons and projected
world prices, the per-unit subsidy would be 39% compared to 43% in FY80. The
Government would seek to achieve such a reduction in the per-unit subsidy in
FY81 (paragraph 16 of letter on agricultural development strategy attached
at Annex V, Appendix A).
Monitoring Arrangements
72.        The seasonal distribution of fertilizer demand in Pakistan is such
that about 60% of fertilizer offtake occurs in the period November to January
when it is applied to wheat. It was to avoid any adverse impact on last
year's wheat crop that the 1980 fertilizer price increase was made in February.
Tentative estimates for March to May indicate that the February price increase



- 21 -
led to some decline in offtake during this period. While fertilizer sales :.t
this time of year are in any event small and a more definitive picture of the
situation will only emerge as the year progresses, the preliminary March-May
figures have underlined the need for close monitoring of the impact of higher
fertilizer prices on fertilizer use and crop production.
73.       The National Fertilizer Development Centre (NFDC) would have respol-
sibility for monitoring developments. NFDC, an agency under the Federal
Planning Division, was set up in January 1978, with financial assistance from
the Norwegian Government and with FAO as the Executing Agency. The Centre was
established for the purpose of having a single national body responsible for
reviewing the efficient distribution and use of fertilizers; its purview
covers all problems relating to fertilizer from the factory to the farmer.
Qualified and experienced staff of NFDC will carry out the necessary monitor-
ing activities (Section 3.09 of draft Development Credit Agreement). NFDC's
present expatriate and Pakistani staff include experts in agronomy, soil
science, credit, marketing and fertilizer manufacturing. The Dutch Govern-
ment has agreed in principle to finance the continuation of NFDC for the next
five years when Norwegian assistance expires in December 1980.
74.       In discussions with GOP and representatives of the FAO and Dutch
Government during and following appraisal, it has been agreed in principle
that two expatriate economists should be added to NFDC's team to monitor the
effect of higher fertilizer prices on the farm-level situation and, through
this and other studies, to provide information and advice for future
decision-making.
75.       Scientifically collected farm-level data are scarce in Pakistan.
NFDC would carry out a farm-level survey by January 1981 to assess the
effects of the 1980 fertilizer and crop price increases on (i) fertilizer
use by crop, farm size, tenure, region, and for both irrigated or barani
(unirrigated) land; (ii) crop yields by the same categories; (iii) credit
use; and (iv) farm income by farm size, region and tenure (Section 3.08 of
draft Development Credit Agreement). GOP would prepare a report and proposals
for further price adjustments based on the survey for review with IDA. The
intention would be to carry out such farm-level surveys on a regular basis.
Distribution Margins
76.       Manufacturers and distributors are allowed a fixed margin to defray
marketing expenses such as the costs of transport, handling and storage. GOP
considers that the increase in dealers' margins on June 30, 1980 (paragraph
57) was sufficient to offset any additional financing costs imposed by the
February 1980 increase in fertilizer prices. However, the increase in margins
is regarded as an interim measure and all of the items allowed for under
marketing of both domestic and imported fertilizer are being reviewed. The
results of this review would be discussed with IDA in February 1981. GOP has
agreed to take appropriate measures to promote the use of fertilizers (Section
3.07 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 22 -
Domestic Fertilizer Production
77.       The public sector Pakarab Multan Plant operated by the National
Fertilizer Corporation (paragraph 45) has been experiencing technical design
and personnel problems which limited its capacity utilization to below 50% in
the first half of 1980. Because of uncompetitive pay scales, the Multan and
other NFC plants have lost substantial numbers of trained managerial and
technical staff to the private sector as well as to lucrative jobs overseas.
Measures to improve NFC's capacity utilization were discussed with GOP and
NFC during appraisal and further discussed during negotiations and an action
plan (Annex V, Appendix B) was jointly developed, which NFC will begin imple-
menting immediately. The progress of implementation of the plan will be
reviewed in February 1981 (Section 3.10 of draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). An organization and staffing study of NFC's principal subsidiaries
included in the action plan would be financed from the proposed Credit
(Section 3.02 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Transportation
78.       The National Logistics Cell (NLC) has been requested by GOP to
review the April 1979 recommendations made by the Transportation Task Force
(paragraph 54). The NLC will also be empowered by GOP to supervise imple-
mentation of the program arising from these recommendations. GOP agreed,
however, to maintain the Transportation Task Force with the responsibility
for the formulation, review and coordination of the transportation program
and to discuss the program with the Association (Section 3.11 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Agricultural Development Budget
79.       With effect from July 1, 1980, the fertilizer subsidy has been
removed from the agricultural development budget and maintained as a separate
account. Any increase in the actual amount of the subsidy over the amount
budgeted for this purpose would not reduce the funds allocated for the agri-
cultural development budget (Section 3.13 of draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). It will, therefore, be possible to plan other agricultural programs
on a firmer basis than at present.
Pricing of Agricultural Products
80.       The GOP has stated its intention that the support and procurement
prices for agricultural products would be revised on a regular basis so as to
maintain adequate incentives for the continued growth of fertilizer use and of
agricultural production.  A number of crop prices have already been increased
in response to the February 1980 increase in fertilizer prices. GOP has
stated that it will normally review all crop prices prior to the commencement
of the relevant cropping seasons for each crop. During negotiations, GOP
confirmed that an Agricultural Prices Commission would be established, with
suitable terms of reference, to carry out these reviews.



- 23 -
Financing Plan
81.       The proposed Credit would be used to finance approximately 12.5%
of the total cost amounting to $400 million of fertilizer imports estimated
to be required during FY81. Under the Government's present financing plan
for FY81, the total expected foreign exchange costs of fertilizer imports
would be met from the following major sources (a detailed breakdown of the
sources of aid and barter financing arrangements is given in Annex V,
Table 1):
US$ millions
External assistance                     100.0
Barter                                   16.5
GOP                                     283.5
400.0
82.       The proposed Credit, which is not included in the above figures,
would decrease the reliance on short-term borrowing and suppliers' credits,
which have proved expensive in the past. The use of such financing arrange-
ments in FY81 would be determined during the year depending on the availa-
bility of foreign exchange reserves to finance cash purchases and the rela-
tive cost of short-term borrowing for general purposes and suppliers' credits
for the purchase of fertilizer. The Government would take all necessary
action, including the utilization of its own foreign exchange to the extent
that sufficient external financing was not available, to ensure availability
of sufficient fertilizer in Pakistan at the appropriate seasons to support a
fertilizer consumption estimate for FY81 of 1.2 million tons, or such revised
estimate as may be agreed with IDA, and to end the fiscal year with adequate
stocks to support the projected offtake during the initial months of FY82
(Section 3.12 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
Credit Administration
83.       The arrangements in Pakistan for the procurement and import of
fertilizer are described in paragraphs 50-52 above. In accordance with these
arrangements, which are satisfactory, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MFAC) would be responsible for administering the part of the
Credit ($49.9 million) to be used for fertilizer imports. MFAC, acting
through the Federal Directorate for Fertilizer Imports (FDFI), has proved
capable of procuring and distributing increasingly large volumes (700,000
tons in FY80) of fertilizer. Procurement would be through international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The study of
the organization and staffing of the public fertilizer industry (paragraph
47), for which $100,000 of the Credit would be utilized, would be adminis-
tered by NFC.
84.       The Government would deposit rupee funds equivalent to the amounts
disbursed by the Association for fertilizer imports into an account with the
State Bank of Pakistan and use these funds solely to finance its development
programs in the agricultural sector (Section 3.05 of draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1981.



- 24 -
Justification and Risks
85.       The Credit would assist GOP to meet the demand for fertilizer
and thereby to increase the output of agriculture. Use of fertilizer has
a benefit-cost ratio of about 3 at present nutrient-grain conversion ratios
and international prices. Given the use of fertilizer by farmers of all size
categories in Pakistan, the distribution of benefits should be equitable.
Little risk is associated with the Credit, since investment in fertilizer
is one of the highest return activities in agriculture.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
86.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Pakistan and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
August 22, 1980



- 25 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV  GES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. Mi.)                 PAXSTAN                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE7 1
TOTAL            803. 9                               MOST RECENT          LOW INCCRIE         MIDDLE INC0HE
AGRICULTURAL     253.0              1960   b    1970 /b ESTIHATE /b      ASIA a PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                  60.0       130.0    230.0               197.9               894.8
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      61.01      98.01   172.0              166.0                42.a4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     45.9        60. 4     77.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1        24.9      27.4               20.8                39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     139. 0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       332. 0
YFAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       57.0        75.0      96. 0             193.2               376. 1
PER SQ. EH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    201. 0      249. 0    305. 0             409.6              2350. 4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8        46.3      46.5               42.0                40. 4
15-64 YRS.                         51.8        50. s     50. 6              55. 0               56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4         3.2       2. 9               3.0                 3.4
FOPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2. 3        2. 8      3.1                2. 2                 . 4
URBAN                              s. 0        4. 0      4.4                3.9                 4. 1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     48O         47.0      45.0               37.4                28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     23.0        18.0      15.0               14.6                 7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3. 2        3. 7      3. 3               2. 6                1. 9
FAMILY PLANNING -
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       .       1908.1    2085.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..       6. 0              15.6                39. 0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0      99.0              101.4               116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUJIREMENTS)                  83.0        97. 0     99. 0              92.4               108. 9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          55.0        60. 0     63. 0              49. 8               60. 3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0        20. 0     20.0               12.0                18. 8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     27.0        21.0      17.0               17.9                 5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    44.0        49.0      52.0               50.8                63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          135.0/c        ..        ..                 ..                52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        21. 0     29. 0              30.2                42.4
,.URBAN                             ..           .       60. 0              66.0                62. 1
RURAL                              ..           ..      17. 0              20.0                29. 7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0       6.0               17.7                52.8
URBAN                               ..        12. 0     21. 0              71. 3               71.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 ..                42. 4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         11000.0d    4310. 0/e  3780. 0OL          6322.7              4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      8440. Ole 10040. O/e         9459.0              2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2070.0      1870.0   2020.0              1758.4               819.4
URBAN                            370.0       500. 0    570. 0             502. 9
RURAL                          22850.0     12390. 0   12360. 0          10524. 1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..           ..       ..                  ..                28. 8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.3
URBAN                              5. 6        5. 5
RURAL                              5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.1         2.s,f      .
URBAN                              3.1         2. 7
RURAL                              3.1         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        17. 9Lf     ..
URBAN                               ..        54. 4
RURAL                               ..         4. 9



- 26 -                                          ANEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCILL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV4AGES
PAKISTAN                             -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME          MIDDLE INCONE
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb       ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 30.0         44.0      51.0                80. 9                98.6
MALE                  46.0        62.0       69.0                94.3                 99.2
FEMALE                13.0        24.0       32.0               66.7                 97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         14. 0     17.0                26.6                 55.5
MALE                  18.0        22.0       25.0                34.8                60.7
FEMALE                 3.0         6.0        8.0               18.2                 49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   1.0           1.5       1.5                 9. 9                13. 7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         41.0      42.0                41.1                 34.6
SECONDARY                          24.0         20.0      19. 0               20.5                 28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15. oil     20. 0     21. 0               40. 9                85. 8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0          3.0       2.8                 1. 8                 9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         18. 0     16.0                25.8                118. 9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          1. 6      4. 8                2. 4                39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   7. 0          ..       5.0                13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0. 8          3. 0Lh    .* -.                                    4, 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6       17364. 1   21270.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    8. 7         9. 3     10. 0               29.4                 36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              60.8         58.9      58.0                70.5                 51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 17. 9        18. 7     19.0                 L. 6                21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                31.5         28. 7     27.9                37.9                 39.1
MALE                                 55.2         50.4      4&86                51.3                 48.5
FEMALE                                5.7          5.5       5.7                23.7                 29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1. 5         1. 7       1. 8               1. 2                 1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20. 3/i       17. 8     17.3
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3Lj        41.8      41.5
LOWEST 2D PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 4/f        8. 0      8.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17. Si       20. 2     20. 6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         68. 0    176.0               107.-8
RURAL                                ..         47.0     122.0                86.5                192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..         34.0      88.0
RURAL                                ..         22.0      58.                   ..                182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..         42.0      32.0                46.2
RURAL                                ..         43.0      29.0                51. 7                33.2
Not avaiLable
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962-65;  /d Includes Bangladesh;  /e Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /f 1973;
/R 1960-62; /h 1972; /i 1963-64; /d Aggregated data for Pakistan and Bangladesh.
April, 1980



-27 -                                                                       ANNX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes   Although the data  r  deano fros.... " nor   enral   juge  the suetauthoritative and reiable, it should alsh  no tea tier e hey mY ou  be intr-
nationa lly comparable becaus  ofthe loch of stan`dardizd defininice  end concets used by differentfcouetnies to co1liente  she date.  The dae  are,ee-
theleen, useful to describe ordere of nagenude, iedintat treede, aod obhrctrteie   -rnit eaJor  ifferroe  hettteeouuris...
The reeruo   reupeIre (I)1 et, same counery group ofthe subject --utry sod (2) e  o-ury Eroup nith a-hat higher average imo-   tha  the  --eer  group
of ti   ujc   ucty(eet    fr"pIr   S                       Erbu    ifpo1rter" group where "Siddle Inoum  North Africa and fiddle tEat' is ch....o h.cause of stronger
sIl-utrl  fiiis.  In the ref. e r  group date the average  ar  Population weighted seithenic means. for esob indiotn srd show  only nie an
least hal of the oeties in   groop has dare for that ind ica_or   Si.is the c-vrege of ..eu rtew   sagtetdctr   eedo   h   viaiiyo
data ae.d is not u-ifo-, -ostie nose be.rerised be relating  vrgeof ore indio_tor to an_ber   Thre eeeses  re dnl   usfu  in ouspaning eh  value
of oei.dicutup atu.tl     acg  h           tucry ood refernc  groups..1i~.P1ig  h
T.t.1 d-n (otheusrd s.l.                             d irulatt...ourhysoita-  tupuhnc-t  untue  by nassr ou pnactuong  yc-
Aartoulupui -  mnieatrof egrluhtatawres usdnepriy or  eresetly               Pueslabeper Duel   Persoen  Pupulutiuu dinidedh  nehb  uS practicin
forcrpe,paturs,neeetaudAiche  grdn  or t  li  fallo; 197) data,                  saead     rsl   eduaeume  patica   uss   n   eite   na
ISP EG CPITA(IS)  -GNP penc -pita.slae  at       -ren     ,khm   nue,nl            Perol Ftecca fuseita1 ted -tsl ubae, e   rural - Pepulesice (nenal,
E 1.   9,b_ t Pi"" C'  ~ ~ rban, end irurl) dinided by their -epetnti  nuber of heepite1 beds
ouleted by same cuevrsian method uu Worl Seeb Atlas (190h-7  basis);190,  availabl  te poblit and private gsera1 euf specialted hempitn1 sad re-
1910, aed 1979 data.                                              ~~~~~~~habilitatien rnters.  temptinale are mwtbliabmaet  peemametly  -nffd
tAtOO  OtSONTIO  Pt CPIT  . casa  coeusutt o cumecia  enrg  (ral     by at sat owe phyipsici.  Estblimeens pre-idieg pTincipelly castdia1
MERGY CONSUMPION _ FER CAPTA - Ao-1  -f      .-rgy (t..l              sre are ret included.  Dre-I heapitble  howevr, tcludm  Iseth and medical
uwd ligitte, petroleu, natural gas and hydra-  oulwrsd geotherml elec-                    i.eteem oat peraetly staffed by apytin(a  yamdclmsest
iricityl In hilosras  at  -oe  eqival-t per capita; 1960, 1970, ad 1978nre   iwf,ec)eihe Per npatiant aecbadtiow  andL. proide t
data.                                                              l~~~~~~~~~~~~~imited rage ef medical failintre-   Far  tnetietical Purposes orb   bumpi-
POPULATION  ~~~~ VZTXL STATISTICS                                     .I.~~ral  incnde stHes priccipe1 general and sP-cialeed hampitaIr, ned rura
Tota.l rprlatien. Mid-Tear (millios ..    As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 197t            ndn..itsile ret  oreil Ned -. tonl- ehe  ati-  -dnsie  toior dichrges
dta.P                                                                                  trui hapii  dPivded hy The number   of hdi....tord.hg.
Ilea  Paeuiutlu (aence-t uf rtotal  - Rtnia of aebueta total popalation;fr.M                        %41dldbyt     -b    obd.
dlffre_n  defisitiou 1 of b aris  areas may utfeot cnpara.hiilty  If dut           HOU'SING
amn   aore;1960, 1970, oad 197 t date.                                      Av-rese Si.e at Hteo-ehold (essau.s -er hu..eshold) - total. arbe. sadetr-
Paaant Poeti.n.                                                                   A  asbId  oeee           oagep ef indviduals  h. where living qat...
Porulaniao torer lONE   Curret population P-eecsicnm  are base.d en 1980                sod their ngi  _use    A  ere   ridgse soy or fly sue he imcloddi
ntetl popaleian by ag-ad eon sad ther mreaiop ad fmrtilitynatetm.                     thbm    . beehadfnsettilpupes
Projection paramters far _urtliiy eaeseprise of threlvsaar-                        tve.r.... o-m nuber  freeeer roa-tota. aha. and rural - Aveag  saw-
ing life supatteny at birthiutesn cl ii-hu.try's per capits iteme                    hen ef per-n  pmr roan 1i all -ba..  sod rural ec..upied csa we
leve, aud f sal  lIfe especsayt iailsitt77.)' years.  The par-                        dwellings, -p-i-ely.  Dwellings ec1ade  e-emnu  srcue   n
enere for fertility rate alec have thes  lees-       sumn  declise is                  ncuidprs
fe-ility acco rding to inte  leve  and Pas  fanily plauing performanc.             A caestn  Electr'icit  frot of dwellings) - tesal. aniam  and rurl
_atcanid        stenhsge  on-fteeuu   ohstiess et merteliny                           Coneetional dwellins. with electricity In living quarter.      s  acetg
ai   eriiy Feed   a poace    'pataeof tota, utbee, aed rura  dtrellti                                                  rsetiey
StatiousrYP eae1aten-Inenniney   ep tiso there Is so gr-h miece
ohs birth rate is equl to tie death rate  std also the age atrtture r-           EDUCATION
sin cosat   Tis Is achievd only  ftnee tmrtility rate  denies to                    Adjemnd seelmu en
che rplacas  leve.l ef um_ nt    edu_e rt,whnsb  ...ne.tiew                                              ..rme,sb Jl-  oa, ale sad fl-Grass--  ttal, sale sod famale
of easer replaces itesif e-tly.  Ths. snatiea.ny  pplte   ise wee o                     eerllmsst of all ages  t the priary leva  as pe-tusges of  -ep-itir
esiete   w  hebai  o  te  r)ets  csaceraof thf te  epuaiue                        primary ache-age pepalati..e; te-Ip, inclede  childre  agsd 6-1Il
inthe year 1000, and the eats  fdcita f        ertly  raetorPlaeer  bu  a djuend foe diffsraet lasgtha ef primary sdaatiat; tar
t    -I_                                                              i..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ramee  rith u-ivrsal edon.tian amlia-  may anteed 150 parceen
nea  mttiasory puulatim  is teanbd- The year wben  -tai-nty pepulatiaa                     inca sam  pupile are  alo  or siev  tie wffiut1 s.ohel ag..
.inle  bee bee  twa..bed.                                                             Smedr  tel-ttl esadtml      opted ne .iev; .scodary
Puuenlsnio  Damit,                                                                          edcto   saia   tletteryasa  apoe   rmryiarniw
Per as. bin. -  id-year population Per square kilstr (101 hectersa) at                    prvdes gEneral. v1c-tiaal, en tysoha  triin  Isar-tiae gee pupib
ttria  arajesl   f12 to 17 yese  at  ge; carrespasdee ... a..ees se  gemerally
Per cc e. amcotrl.lad - itepttd as bher  fee agrica1nura1 land                            meelded.
amly.                                                           Oton~~~~~~~~~~V.tiewal s teim   (asun et  ascen.de,")-Ve..atiesl isetinati.n.
PeesltiesAge  truatre Ceremn) -Childre  (-14 years), working-age (1)-             incud  nihinl,  enri    we  -tba  prtgres witch operate tider
64 years), sad retired (5 peers sad aver) -a pesngas of wid-ymar P0p.                     dontly er em depersm-ats of ascender teetitatiuas.
lattee; 1960, 1970, mud1978 data.                                                       Popliais  ai     erur.edsewa,- Tetafl ttndets are11d im
fPmrlatiio  Growth Rate (waest) - tonal - A-ne grunh retse of teta  mid-                    prtma      , en    tieodar  levl  dgv.d.d by mahr.   tmessih
year ppnleti-n  Ear 1950-60, 1960-70, aed 197-8taesadn lvl.
Par-letian Gran  Rtes   C.e....et - urban -8Aua grown b rtes of atbe  .pap-               Ld imgvesfnen)-titsrate ads labi  te rea  sad -ois-)
lattons fec 1950-    1960-, sad 1977-                                                     a   p-emtege ef ntal. adult P.plte   ged 15 penc  anM ra
bode Die  Ns Cs  thasosdt - A--Ia live hiena per ntcasand of mid-yea
pwpnla,tien  INtO, igyo, en  1978 data.                                              OINSIPION
led  eth Nae es  th  .. adi- A--Ia dastha Par thousan.d of ald-psee              S-Psesm         Cars Easy thaeead rowaltiem   - raessn  ere t            -temter
pauoce   NS   97,ad17   es                                                            crsr asntng lees than might pec.-; so buda       1aulaos, hsaese and
GeseNard_itfe N   ia-Aver ageeaie  of daughters saaaill bear is                       m1il nryrhima
her sral rpeedueivepanted it she  paenee         re n  age-specific fer-       hEdiRa..lvene fear thanesd enelatiar) - All types ot             L---asr  tar redt
ttlitvas       ual   Ire-rer aveage  s-ding Sn 1960, 1970, and 1977.                    hee  et  ognrlpbi   e  tasm    tpplna;mces   el
Pamb PF,=ls - Aaeswtr.1  A.a-a feiauaadalt- dA-uti            , eaie   ad . acPtar-    teasd ...teier it      astre  andIpbj   is ybasa wha  reg, aset sisa ateaie  e
et hirth-ce..reI danics under  -pics  of satae  familypletgpgr.                              tatfn;datertetyssmyeehneaebatam et
Pal,Plsa- laes(mrest of macindf ma!en)i- Pfrtandage atrser.... tea-nnteeshbltsisdblitimategt
emo   atiildb-heisg age (15-464 ae  who se  bieth-nesral devices tO               TV tuissfe thnedemLe,tten   - TV rmi..ars ,  tee .esdeet te
all earned aa  Ia e-  eg  gr...pP.geealpba-errhaed pep"ettow; seclada  umltsaad fTV tee..iv-t
FM AND IETITION                                                                             L.  -ruteiss an  is yets what regisnetienu ot TV' mess wa  Is effect.
Ieds at Peed Predetioea Carita f 19P69-7.1.1StO) - Idme of per caPiasnl                   teatdit.y genera  ttars-s  avpeper"  dat ted  e   petedital pbh-
pendcefa  ef  ll  eed  eameiffe.  Peduclee  nolde  sed aed Esdc-            emamdwed  ptaiptomertgaealws.Itiseaidared
is  w eladacyer hel.  Ceadnla cas  prmay geds(eg.  'aaren5        te ha 'daily" it it appears aslaetear times a mes.
imete  at sager) which are sdilh   en  contain   nriantm  (e.g. etffs and            GItem dAmea Attsedeemow   Cait..rTar-gs  an the miera
tea ar   ne1aded).  ASgregate pdcti-of atsb coontry Is based ent   .d   r"t.  -,t
metienl ewrags prod .enr prie  n ights; 1961-65, 1970, and igyg deis.                   niadt  meild daingtt..          teeiaemies   edta-eee
enrgyeaias  aeafedapim                    vilabla in tweetry pee -apites          te 
par day. Acai.lahl  espp2lla   ames  dintic pr-de-tiam, imparts                   LAe M ine FOabRMPre(husms     emmtal   tieprnn 
sparta, amdeh a  ha steak.  Nat spplims selads amidl fsed, sens,                      trme  Pares  and: athepl.e.d.  ha  ene-ite1g  ..stei-a  P.-d.ts  ate.
qasenieas asedha tee  creasstag. sA leesh   isiaim    aaei                  Dftiitien  in ranier   eatmawiss          sea  ee .t.erIle; i960, 1970 and
ints nra astimate  by PAO based on phyhlegwa  fad    m   ama   ti                     1978 den..
vity= andheath emitarts  -mlrmtal mepsetea, bedy nights, ag                          el   gvas       el   se   et   speeamg tttllbrfrs
andys   disteithata   of ppaLatien. end allwin  10 peruse farwseatatr                               int    - shr tr   ha-tsmie, fa-rety, batting end
hemeehId l-val; 19b1-65, 1970, sad 1977 dm55.                                         CismaeperegettedLaborf . ted; 1960. 1970 en  1976 dens.
Par cawte me~e st ernet tam owedea  -Pmehacn-e  If pr cait                  ldwater Cerset) - Laber Pse  ha  imng  emmeeweiam,   stett
sa  eapp2y a  feed per daY.  Sam eapy of feud L. dafimad as 'X..           -         am   lerws.wtraAgsa   amnse   aa   ae   aa; 1960.
qateamets far all estsri  estblished hy USDA praida Pee mIn_a                         197  an-t 1918t data.          --p -..       ..              ,f
allae_c  ofSe t 80gi  ef tetl pertain par day and 20 gem  at animlZed               P19ti0stie 19ns faeaw -ttl   la   n  aal      entieiw
adseleethan thes  ot 75 gym  of ne-lpee1           and 23gmtt                peenaa  at estet, ale de t1tealspepLawO                  atal  gscaenls
Woerld Puedtra; 1961-45, 1970 amd 1977 dat.r.10190                                                       17dt.T-              10'    .t.P -               .flt.
Per e-ita -reei senOr tea  -aSe seA  atls-  Prt-is sppof feed defg-e   tret-r  ft the peesltta, and lan  tome trde.  A ten set-
rived tra  eeial  -d  pl.aln  ha gem  pee day; 1961465* 1970 and 1977 dets,    mEss amPrmmetalawn
CbildA (ama- (-MIbglaNtefa  tbheWasd  - A--Ja dentha pee  thmasad in                    !I~o.9~s.LAp  Natie of pepelatiam  mdsr 15 sa  65 sa  am
F                  t repi-   eas   5eild_a iw this ass gas.P; f- en  ea  davelpteg ea-E-.
trtie dens dseiad tram life tables; 1960, 1970 sed 1977 dete.                       iucae gysnuggDoo
REALM                                                              ?.-t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pemmes at Prinsee EIm    (ha  hai eash  -d  kWa     -  uimaivd by rieheet
11fr I-paccency at Bitro (years)  -nauauohrr  cy--acr   iif0C  -tnooola                      2est   ihs 0 pe-eet.p-sat 20 preami. and pasest 60 peeuat
of housholds.
obic;1060. 1970 aud 1970 dor.
bEans tortul1iry can  leer nhinsed)  A- nul deans if lotoo-  under uayea    POVERTY yTicT lROUPlS
of atepay cauuaedlIce  iroh.                                                    Entimecd Absolute Poverty  one  Leve  (It) owr c,,it,) - urban and enrol1-
Acte olt cutef (pW ya-   at roruletloc  - total urllc, uc   ual-IAbclontpvry  caalee   a thtiee.  leve  helna cihb a  i--ol
numbe  of  eopl  (toal. ahac,and  acal  t-in   eocblo  -roest- c  .tal         -unriti-ely adequa.te diet elaweseta  oatfond neqnivenete Ia not
-atr huyl  (lcl-e  trra--d nbfc          rr   ritetad butacoitned                    affordable.
euccecharlc   rieectecedhaatoet  Ccine,eeduOtOyuiu(              E.,uaied leltiv- F-tery I-...e Level (00$ -e ceirot) - arhe sad rural1
pcecouof rhnrenrile r         alalan.I  0ieatraa  ulcRra   aaia  oa    ncm   ee  isloe-thrdIf anaeprnyt
c IIIdce  us  aa  clhcresnble  -             ofa th cha  house.  It -u.a1 area-       lva  aith udju......r far highetrea  liviog to urbanaras
doothon   oerdaOsrccncnrpr f the day in fetchint the                                 ad tua  -I Peoe f pepalatli_ (erbs  end eunsl( wh. ape "`healat  pear".
_luovl  t  erras-e of the it -ep-ori- yoyuntlyo-a.       . Erta dlv-EcnmcadSilIoaivsn
pnlsY ioyludr nr cul1-i-yi   u-d diepoual, uibho ~it  coiciet        eo              to_to.ueco_-   oucIywa and  Poecinslperinau
ofhuarotoaod eut-ae    yaa-cyteaeitaw    f                                    .rI,19t0
Pit Pelilt- and  ioil-I     ... iretlluicos.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978/79                                                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWtTH (%, constant prices)-,
US$ billion          .                                   1976177         1977t78        1978/79
GNP at Market Prices                            19.61            100.0                                   2.5             7.0             5.9
Gross Domestic Investment                        3.45             17.6
Grogs National Saving                            2.24             11.4
Current Account Balance                         -1.21             -6.2
Resource Balance                                -2.50            -12.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978/74
Value Added             Labor Force             V.A. Per Worker
USS million   %                                   US$  iion    7
Agriculture               5,694        32           12.4       54             459          59
Indtstry                 4,210         23            4.2      18            1,002        129
Services                 8,042         45            6.4      28            1,257        161
Total/Average         17,946       100            23.0    100               780        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                                  Central Goverrnment
(Rs billion)                 7. of SDP                               (Rs billion)              i of GDP
1978(79          1978/79      1976177-1978/79                       1978/9         1978J79       1976177-1978179
Current Receipts                   31.7             17.8               17.2                             24.6           13.8               13.2
Current Expenditures               33.8             19.0               18.0                             25.3           14.2               13.0
Current Surplus/Deficit            -2.1             -1.2               .0.8                             _0.7           -0.4                0.2
Capital Expenditures               21.2             11.9               11.3                             18.0           10.1                9.5
External Assistance (net)  -    10.8                 6.1                5.4                             10.8            6.1                5.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
JanT4r       Januqry
1976/77       1977178       1978179/C      1gn7  ry      J9nuL-.
(billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                               52.8           64.7         77.7            73.1         88.6
Bank Credit to Public Sect,r (net)                  28.6           33.4         42.3            40.9         46.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)               30.1           35.7         40.1            39.8         49.9
Money and Quasi Money as % of SDP                   38.9           41.3         43.7
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 . 100)              255.3          271.4        289.7           293.0        310.0
Annual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Index                                11.3           6.3           6.7              .           5.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)                  29.4           16.8         26.6              .           13.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)               30.3           18.6          12.3             .           25.4
/a  Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning.  Serious underenumerat!on may exist, especially of nen.
GDb GP at factor cost.
E Provisional.
Not applicable.                                                                                                                April 1930



- 29 -
ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                    MERCHOLNDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976177.1978/79)
1976/77       1977/78      1978179     1979180/a                     0US$ million       %
TiTh million)
Exports of Goods, NFS                              1,449         1,746        2,302        3,405        Raw Cotton           69             5
Imports of Goods, NFS                              3,339         3,804        5,198       6,208         Rice                278            20
Resource Balance                                  -1,890        -2,058       -2,896       -2,803        Cotton Yarn         141            10
Cotton Cloth       185            14
Interest Payments on External Debt                  -183          -261         -303        -331         Carpets             129             9
Workers  Remittances                                 578         1,166        1,395        1,575        Other Goods         585            42
Other Factor Payments (net)                          443           552          694          551           Total          1,387           100
Net Transfers
Balance on Current Account                        -1,052          -601      -1,110       -1,008         EXTERNAL DEBT, JUNE 30. 1979/f
Public M6dLT Loans
Disbursements                                      799           797          888          895                                                     US$
Repayments                                        -175          -122         -235         -349                                                   million
Net Disbursements                                    624           675          653          546        Outstanding and Disbursed                    7,767.9
transaction's with /IMFLb                                                                               Undiabursed                                 2,536.3
Trnsaction8 with IMP-v                                41            41          -14           54        Outstanding Including Undisbursed          10,304.2
Short-Term Borrowing                                 -79           126          151           40
Other Items                                          162            44            3          548'       DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1978/79L&                23.47.
Changes in Reserves (minus sign - increase)          211          -312          294         -180
Errors and Omissions                                  93            27           23           -          IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMBER j3. 1979 (US$ million)
Gross Reserves (year end)                            372           694          386          566                                      IBRD          IDA
Net Reserves (year end)le                           -146           150          -9i          252
Official Gold (year end; million nsa.)               1.6           1.7          1.7          1.8        Outstanding end Disbursed   343.8           717.6
Undisbursed                    88.0        353.5
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                              Outstanding Including
Undisbursed                431.8       1,071.1
Imports                                              400           485          611       1,203
of which:  Petroleu                                274           341          308          737
Exports                                               27            63           65          120
of which:  Petroleum
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through May 11. 1972      May 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973         Since February 15, 1973
US$  -  Rs 4.7619                 USS     11.00                      US$  -  9.90
Re   -  US$0.2100                 Rs   .   0.0909                    Rs   -  0.1010
/a  Government estimate.
/b  Including Trust Fund.
/c Includes extraordinary inflows from Saudi Arabia of $420 million and an SDR allocation of $39 million.
Id  Foreign  xchnge and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
Le  Excluding use of IMF resources.
.L  External public debt only; private debt is negligible.
g  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
... Included elsewhere.                                                                                                                  April 1980



- 30 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of July 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan or                                                       Amount (less cancellation)
Credit                                                                               Undis-
Number   Year  Borrower         Purpose                        Bank   TW    IDA    bursed
Seventy-seven loans and credits fully disbursed /a            611.2         581.3
206      1970  Pakistan  Engineering Education                --              4.0    0.1
422      1973  Pakistan  Karachi Port III                     --             18.0    0.5
492      1974  Pakistan  Karachi Port IV                      --             16.0    2.6
1107     1975  SNGPL      Gas Pipeline IV                     60.0            --      9.9
546      1975  Pakistan  Industrial Development (NDFC)    --                 30.0    1.8
1208     1976  Pakistan  Power Transmission                   --    35.0      --      8.0
620      1976  Pakistan  Seed                                 --             23.0   10.3
1326     1976  PICIC      Industrial Development              25.0            --      1.5
630      1976  Pakistan  Lahore Water II                      --             26.6   10.7
648      1976  Pakistan  Irrigation and Drainage              --             14.0    8.6
1366     1977  Pakistan  Livestock                            --    10.0      --     9.8
1372/684 1977  Pakistan  Railways                             35.0           25.0   35.0
678      1977  Pakistan  Education                            --             15.0   11.8
751      1977  Pakistan  Hill Farming                         --              3.0    2.4
754      1978  Pakistan  SCARP-VI                             --             70.0   69.7
755      1978  Pakistan  Hazara Forestry                      --              1.7    1.6
771      1978  Pakistan  Tarbela II                           --             35.0    2.2
813      1978  Pakistan  Punjab Extension                     --             12.5   11.6
846      1978  Pakistan  Fauji Fertilizer                     --             55.0   34.0
867      1979  Pakistan  Toot Oil and Gas Development         --             30.0   24.6
877      1979  Pakistan  Salinity Control and Reclamation --                 60.0   59.7
892      1979  Pakistan  Primary Education                    --             10.0    9.4
922      1979  Pakistan  Sind Agricultural Extension /b   --                 (9.0)  (9.0)
957      1979  Pakistan  Fourth Agricultural Dev. Bank    --                 30.0   30.0
968      1980  Pakistan  Third WAPDA Power                    --             45.0   45.0
974      1980  Pakistan  Third Highway /b                     --            (50.0) (50.0)
1019     1980  Pakistan  PICIC Industrial Development /b  --                (40.0) (40.0)
Total                                                        731.2  45.0 1,101.1
of which has been repaid                                   387.8   --      21.8
Total now outstanding                                        343.4  45.0 1,079.3
Amount sold                                        23.9
of which has been repaid                         22.3        1.6   --      --
Total now held by Bank and IDA /c                            341.8  45.0 1,079.3
Total undisbursed                                             42.3  17.8   340.6  400.7
/a   Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for proj-
ects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by Bangladesh.
/b   Not included in totals:  Credit numbers 922-PAK, 974-PAK and 1019-PAK are not
yet effective.
/c   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of June 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                             Amount   In US$  Million
Year      Obligor            Type of Business      Loan    Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel         0.63       -        0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries    Textiles             0.75       -        0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement      Cement               5.25     0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                 Development           -       0.52       0.52
1969-                          Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute         Textiles             1.84     0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products       4.43      0.84      5.27
1980
1967     Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp. Ltd.            Paper                5.38     2.02       7.40
1969    Dawood Hercules        Fertilizers          1.00     2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper      Pulp and Paper       5.60     0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Limited      Food & Food           2.40     0.40       2.80
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals &
Limited and Attock   Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.                             29.00     1.62      30.62
1980     Fauji Foundation     Woven Polypropy-
lene bags            1.78       -        1.78
1980     Premier Board
Mills Limited        Particle Board        2.70       -        2.70
Total Gross Commitments                   60.76     9.48      70.24
Less: Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales               33.25     1.01     34.26
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC         27.51     8.47      35.98
Undisbursed (including participants)      26.50     0.37      26.87



- 32 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771       Tarbela Dam:  US$35.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
This credit, together with other additional contributions arranged
in 1978, is intended to help finance the repairs and additional works required
to complete the project. In September 1973, the Indus River was diverted
through tunnels on schedule to enable the final stage--the construction of
the closure section of the dam--to be undertaken. By end-June 1974, the
main embankment had been completed to full height, and the first impoundment
began on schedule in July 1974. In early August, difficulties were encoun-
tered in the operation of the tunnel gates and damage to one of the tunnels
necessitated the emptying of the reservoir and repair of the tunnels and
outlet structure. Agreement was reached with the parties of the Indus Basin
and Tarbela Development Funds whereby special contributions were made by a
number of parties, including IDA (Credit 581-PAK), to help with the cost of
repairs and additional remedial works. The stilling basins suffered further
damage in August 1975 and again in April 1976. Stilling Basin 3 has now been
repaired and has operated satisfactorily. Work to construct a flip-bucket
at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is scheduled to begin in 1981 and will be
completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool below the service
spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection works. Final protec-
tion work in the service spillway plunge pool and in the downstream channel
will be completed in 1980. Final protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool
will be completed in 1981/82. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the
dam have generally been met. Power generation by the first four units began
in 1977.
Loan No. 1372        Tenth Railway:  US$35.0 Million Loan and US$25.0 Million
and              Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective. Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684       Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. Pipri Marshalling Yard
has been completed and was opened on March 18, 1980. Kotri Bridge has been
completed and was opened to traffic on February 14, 1980. Four shunters for
Pipri Yard have been received. Spare parts for diesel locomotives have been
fully ordered; 55% have been received already. Tenders for telecommunications
and signalling system have been finalized and contract awarded by Pakistan
Railways on May 29, 1980.
Credit No. 422       Third Karachi Port:  US$18.0 Million Credit of July 19,
1973; Effective Date: December 14, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 492       Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Completion of work on the Juna Bunder Berths is currently estimated
at 36 months behind schedule. Quay piling and shed construction have been com-
pleted and auxilliary works are in progress. The initial and subsequent delays
in construction of the Napier Mole Bridge will mean that completion is likely
to be delayed until early 1981 - about 3 years behind schedule. Most of Credit
422 has been disbursed. Construction of the oil berth has been completed.
Channel dredging works are in progress. A study report commissioned by KPT
for rationalizing the port tariff structure is under review by KPT. An
interim tariff increase averaging 100% was approved by the Government last
year, and has already contributed to lessening the port congestion.
Loan No. 1326        Development Finance Company - PICIC:  US$25.0 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date:
November 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
This loan has been fully committed and at July 31, 1980, disburse-
ments amounted to US$23.5 million.
Credit No. 546       National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30.0 Million Credit of May 15, 1975: Effective
Date July 17, 1975; Closing Date: November 30, 1980
The Credit has been fully committed and US$28.2 million had been
disbursed as of July 31, 1980. The Closing Date, originally September 30,
1979 has been postponed to November 30, 1980 to allow time to complete one
subproject.
Loan No. 1107        Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60.0 Million Loan of
May 15, 1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Project activities are generally on schedule. A re-estimate of
final project costs (including the additional pipelines and distribution
systems authorized by the Bank) indicates savings in foreign exchange expen-
ditures of about US$7.0 million.
Credit No. 620       Seed Project:  US$23.0 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most
important delays being with the construction and equipping of the three seed
processing plants. The relationship between contractors, consultants, and
equipment suppliers and the Punjab Seed Corporation have been strained
although new working arrangements have improved the situation. Civil works,
other than silos, will be completed by August 1980. There have been signs
of improvement in the quality of pre-basic seed supplied by the research



- 34 -
ANNEX II
institutes, though there is still a problem with wheat seed in Sind. It
is likely that project completion and credit closing dates will need to be
extended by 15 months.
Credit No. 630       Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976; Effective
Date:  Septvriher 21, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31,
1980
All the works have been contracted after some design delay and
retendering. Construction is about 2-1/2 years behind schedule. The engi-
neering consulting service financed by UNDP has been strengthened and extended
to cover the prolonged project period. Technical assistance provided by ODA
(UK) for engineering and financial management, leak detection and training
has been reorganized to better meet the needs of the project.  Financial
results based on current estimates appear to be deteriorating and an imme-
diate rate increase is needed.
Loan No. 1208-T      Second WAPDA Power:  US$50.0 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
Construction of the 336-mile transmission line between Faisalabad
(formerly Lyallpur) and Guddu and installation of associated equipment has
been progressing well. The project will be substantially complete by
December 1980, about one year behind schedule. Due to lower-than-expected
prices, there will be estimated savings of $18 million, $15 million of which
has already been cancelled.
Credit No. 648       Khairpur-II Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming Development
Project: US$14.0 Million Credit of July 22, 1976;
Effective Date:  March 14, 1977; Closing Date:  July 31,
1982
Overall progress is about 21 months behind schedule. However,
with the recent completion by WAPDA and their consultants of the project plan
report and construction of ancillary works and facilities, WAPDA would be able
to maintain consistent and seasonable progress in the critical task of the
drain pipe installations after delivery of most of the heavy equipment, which
took place in mid-1979.
Credit No. 678      Third Education:  US$15.0 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Implementation is about six months behind schedule, but the project
is now making reasonable progress. The Educational Master Plan, covering
manpower and enrollment projections as well as other activities concerning
future development at Sind Agricultural University, was completed in April
1979. About 85% of civil works contracts have been awarded and about one
third of the works completed. Tendering for about one half of the project



- 35 -
ANNEX II
equipment is in progress and the balance is expected to be tendered shortly.
A technical assistance contract was signed with UNESCO in early 1979 and
recruitment is in progress.
Loan No. 1366-T    Punjab Livestock:  US$10.0 Million Loan of February 18,
1977; Effective Date: August 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
In July 1979, it was agreed that the project would be reduced in
scope and that PLB would concentrate its efforts on Village Livestock Associa-
tion (VLA) development activities and milk processing. Since then steps have
been taken to improve the viability of the existing milk plant and VLA form-
ation has increased almost three-fold. Based on the consultants' report, the
Lahore Milk Plant (LMP) would be expanded for the production of 65,000 liters
per day (lpd) of ultra-high temperature (UHT) milk in tetrapak plus 15,000
lpd of pasteurized milk in bulk. Agreement has been reached in principle
that a limited liability company established under the Companies Act would
take over operation of the LMP. A condition of Bank's support to the expan-
sion of the plant is the appointment of a General Manager acceptable to the
Bank and the recruitment for an initial 2-year period of three expatriate
executive managers (processing and engineering, procurement and marketing,
and finance) who would assist the General Manager in operating the plant.
Credit No. 751       Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3.0 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
This project is generally proceeding satisfactorily. All key
staff are in post and pilot programs for food crop trials, vegetables, apples,
forestry and livestock are operating close to schedule. There has been
some delay in commencing preparation of the proposed follow-up project.
Credit No. 754       SCARP-VI:  US$70.0 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is about one year behind schedule due to the delayed
appointment of consultants, who are assisting with detailed project design
and implementation.
Credit No. 755       Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been some progress in different project activities, but
implementation is behind schedule, notably in the silvicultural work. The
silviculturalist will be recruited by FAO, as executing agency of a UNDP-
financed project. The first phase of the feasibility study is expected to
commence in August as soon as GOP approves the draft contract prepared by
PIDC and the consulting firm. PIDC has decided to retender the remaining
part of the feasibility study due to some tax complications. The selection
of the consulting firm is expected to be finalized in November 1980.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 813       Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:  US$12.5
Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective Date:
September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation is delayed about 18 months. Lately, there
has been progress in staff recruitment, building site acquisition and construc--
tion. A contract with a consulting firm to provide technical assistance
continues to be negotiated.
Credit No. 846       Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55.0 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date:  December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering and procurement are practically completed and con-
struction is well advanced. The marketing program is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 867       Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30.0 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation is about six months behind schedule mainly
due to technical difficulties in drilling and slow procurement. However, with
the availability of better equipment, materials and services, there has been
a recent improvement in well drilling. A new drilling management contractor
started work in April 1980. Two CIDA experts arrived in Pakistan in June
1980 to assist in project implementation. A firm to provide project coor-
dination services under CIDA financing is expected to start work in August
1980.
Credit No. 877       Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mardan:
US$60.0 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effective
Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Consultants to assist WAPDA in the preparation of final plan,
detailed designs, specifications and project implementation were appointed in
1979 but have not been fully mobilized due to delays in approving individual
consulting staff and the non-availability of same staff originally proposed.
Formal approval of the project by GOP has not yet been given and GOP is
reviewing options to reduce project's scope. The project is about nine
months behind schedule.
Credit No. 892      Primary Education:  US$10.0 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Consultants for training and evaluation components have been engaged.
However, the consultants for the evaluation component experienced initial dif-
ficulties and the consulting agency has renegotiated a new contract. The
first group of fellows are now undergoing training.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Credit No. 957       Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million Credit
of December 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This Credit became effective June 5, 1980.
Credit No. 968       Third WAPDA Power:  US$45.0 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Closing Date:  December 31, 1984
This Credit became effective July 30, 1980.
Credit No. 922       Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project:
US$9.0 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 974       Third Highway:  US$50.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1019      PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credi't is not yet effective.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare credit:
Twelve months from presentation of proposal.
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Government of Pakistan (GOP).
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
September 1979.
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
December 1979.
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
May 1980.
(f) Completion of negotiations:
August 8, 1980.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
60 days after signature.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
IDA will assist the National Fertilizer Development Centre of GOP in
preparing and conducting a survey of fertilizer use in January 1981 in order
to assess the impact of the revised fertilizer policy (paragraph 75).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government and IDA would jointly review the effects of
price movements of fertilizer with a view to ensuring con-
tinued progress in reducing the per-unit cost subsidy on
fertilizer with the intertion of eliminating it by June 30,
1985 (paragraph 69);
(b) Crop procurement prices would be set at levels designed to
provide adequate production incentives to farmers (para-
graph 69);
(c) In February 1981, GOP and IDA would review the effects of
the February 1980 fertilizer price increase (paragraph 69);
the adequacy of distribution margins would also be reviewed
at this time (paragraph 76);
(d) GOP would implement an action plan to improve capacity
utilization of public sector fertilizer production capacity
(paragraph 77);
(e) A Transportation Task Force responsible for the formulation,
review and coordination of a fertilizer transportation pro-
gram would be maintained (paragraph 78);
(f) A separate account would be maintained for the fertilizer
subsidy (paragraph 79);
(g) All necessary action would be taken, including utilization
of Pakistan's foreign exchange if necessary, to ensure avail-
ability of sufficient fertilizer to meet an agreed FY81
consumption target (paragraph 82); and
(h) Rupee funds equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from Credit
proceeds would be deposited in an account being maintained
in the State Bank and would be utilized for financing agri-
cultural development expenditures (paragraph 84).



- 40 -                     ANNEX IV
Table 1
Annual Fertilizer Offtake
in Pakistan from 1952-53 Onwards
(Nutrient tonnes)
Nitrogen    Phosphorus    Potassium        Total
Year            (N)         (P205)          (K20)
1961-62       37,000           500             -        37,500
1962-63       40,000           200             -        40,200
1963-64       68,000           700             -        68,700
1964-65       85,000         2,200             -        87,200
1965-66       69,830         1,220             -        71,050
1966-67       112,760        3,890           120       116,770
1967-68       176,170       12,160           250       188,580
1968-69      205,210        39,470         2,230       246,910
1969-70      273,950       36,640          1,340       311,930
1970-71      251,520        30,450         1,240       283,210
1971-72      343,973        37,231           744       381,948
1972-73      386,385       48,730          1,380       436,495
1973-74      341,929       58,081          2,673      402,683
1974-75      362,831       60,571          2,086       425,488
1975-76      445,276       102,517         2,843      550,635
1976-77      510,992      117,935          2,356       631,283
1977-78      549,934      156,332          5,977       712,245
1978-79      684,215      187,719          7,578      879,512
1979-80      759,700    .213,500           8,300    1,050,000
Growth rates
1962-80          18.3           40          38.5          20.3
1970-80          10.7         19.3            20          12.9
1975-80          15.9         28.7          31.8          19.8



- 41 -
ANNEX nv
Table 2
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Seasonal I/ Fertilizer Off-take 2/
off-take 1/ during Rabi Season                  Off-take I/ during Kharif Season            Ratio of
(Occober to tiarch)                               (April to September)               Rharif to
Nitrogen   Phosphorous   PotassiurM   Total        Nitrogen   Phosphorous   Potassiua    Total  Total (2)
Thousand Nutrient Tons ---         ------ -         Thous3nd ,:utrient Tons -------
1969-70         133.7        25.7          0.7       160.1        124.3         18.1          2.3        144.7     47.5
1970-71         124.9        19.3          1.7      145.8         115.7          7.1          0.4        123.3     45.8
1971-72         163.1        20.4          0.4      183.8         170.4         14.2          0.5        185.1     50.2
1972-73         197.8        23.9          1.0      222.7         169.3         13.9          0.3        183.6     45.2
1973-74         210.6        39.8          3.6      253.9         191.8        28.9           1.6       212.3      45.5
1974-75         202.2        39.3          1.3      242.9         116.5         16.0          0.6        163.1     40.2
1975-76         237.9       -56.0          1.7      295.6         176.8         25.0          1.1       202.9      40.7
1976-77         278.3        79.8          1.6      359.7         227.7        49.1           0.8       277.6      43.6
1977-78         298.4        88.6          4.6      391.6         238.2        42.8           1.1        282.1     41.9
1978-79         390.7       122.3          5.3      518.3         270.2         67.5          1.4       339.1      39.5
-           -           -          -          340.4         83.3           2.7       426.4
1/ There are two principal seasons: Rabi (October to March), and Kharif (April to September). W4heat is the prin-
cipal Rabi crop, Cotton and 2ice are the principal Kharif crops.
2/ Sale of fertilizer to dealers.



- 42 -
ANN'X 1V
Table 3
PAKIISTAN
Pertilizer Imports Credit
Domestic Production of Fertilizer
(000 at Nutrient)
1979/80
Percent
Capac I ty
Nitrogen               Product            Capacity    70t71       71172     72/73     73/74   14J75   75/76   76/77   77178   78J79   79/80   Utijization
Exxon                  Urea                  79.6         77.9      80.0    86.8        90.6    94.1    97.7    96.4   100.3   102.5   106.0              106 1I
Dawood Hercules        Urea                 158.7          -        94.0   150.0      161.7   170.7   170.8   166.9   173.2   167.1   165.6               104
Daud Ithal - NFC        Acm.. Sulphate       18.9         12.5      14.1    12.3        19.4    20.0    20.4    21.1    20.1    20.6    20.8              110
Multan     - NFC       Urea                  27.3         13.3      12.5       6.4      15.1      9.4     11.4    12.1       0.8    13.6    20.7           76
Can                 117.0         22.1      20.0    16.9        16.5    15.4    18.4    16.8    12.3    21.1    51.6               44
NiP                  68.8           -         -         -         -        -        -        -         -       9.3    29.8         43
Total                              4;.3         125.8     220.6   272n.       3 l3   309.6    TIT   313.3   306.7   334.2  35945    8              4
Phosphorous
lultan    - NTC        NP                    68.8           -         -                   -        -        -        -        -       9.3    29.8          43
Jaranawala and
Faisalabad - NFC   SSP                     16.2          4.6       5.0      9.2       4.1      5.7    10.6    11.9    13.6    17.7    17.8              110
Total                               85.0          4.6       S.0      R.2       4.1       5.7      10.6    11 9    13 6    27.0       47.6         5f,
1/  By 1980, due to additional investnent, the initial design capacity has been Increased to abo.t 10(,000 nt nutrient rer year.
2/ Actual up to lay 1980, projection for June 19P0.
Source:  National fertilizer Corporation of Pakistan, Exxon and Dawood hlercules.



- 43 -
ANNEX IV
Table 4
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Projection of Domestic Production of Fertilizer
(000 mt Nutrient)
1984/85
Percent
Capacity
Nitrogen              Product          Capacity      80/81    81/82   82/83    83/84   84/85    Utilization
Exxon                 Ilrea               79.6       110.0    110.0   110.0    110.0   110.0          110 1/
Dawood llercules2l   Urea                158.7       165.0    159.0   161.0    165.0   165.0          104
Daud Khal - NFC3/    Amn. Sulphate        18.9        14.0      14.0    14.0       9.0      9.0        48
Mlultan    - NFC      Urea                27.3        25.0      25.0    25.0      25.0    25.0         92
Can                117.0        76.0     88.0    99.0    105.0   105.0           90
NP                  68.8        45.0     52.0    58.0       62.0    62.0         90
Mirpur Mathelo - NFC Urea                 264.0       158.0    185.0   211.0    224.0   230.0           87
Fauji                 Urea               262.0          -       85.0   196.0    229.0   236.0          90
lazara - 'NFC         Urea                44.0          -       29.0    37.0      40.0    40.0         90
Total                           1040.3      593.0          747.0   911.0    969.0   982.0      94
Phosphorous
Hultan    - NFC       NP                  68.8        45.0      52.0    58.0      62.0    62.0         90
Jaranawala and
Faisalabad - rNcC  SsP                  16.2        16.0      16.0    16.0      16.0    16.0        100
Total                             85.0       61.0      68.0    74.0      78.0    78.0          92
1/ By 1980, due to additional investment, the initial design capacity
has been increased to about 100,000 nt nutrient per year.
2/  Allowance is included in 81182 and 82/83 for down-time for major planned maintenance.
3   Due to the advanced age of the installations for projection purposes, future production has been
down-rated compared to above capacity in past years.
Source: Mission Estimates.



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Table S
PAI; JSTAN
Pertilizer Irports Credit
Ex-Factory Prices, Margins and Production Cost
Dawood     -        -     Domestic Fertilizer ---------- -    ----- Imported Fertilizer -----------
llercules   Esso   NFC                           SiFC NF  NFC  MPG
Urea      Urea   Urea  Am. Sulph.  NP    Am. N'it.   SSP   Urea   Am. Nit. TSP    DAP              NP    SOP
1.    Ex-factory or C2F Prices                                            (Rupees per produtct ton)
A.  1974-75                   784        854    850    621            -       519      374    3034   1564    3827   4743    2006          -
B.  Noveober 1979             823       1100   1874       tNA      2104      1273      806    2277        -        -   2974    2772        -
C.  May 1980                  893       1150   2006    916         2104      1292      938    2376        -        -   3465 I/ 3069  2227
II.  Marketing nargin
A.  1974-75                   104        129    101    101            -       101       101    320       274    367    370        201      -
B.  Novenber 1979             116        157      NA      NA        178        NA        NA    337         -       -    347       330      -
C. May 1980                   116        165     119    122         178       102       121    528         -       -    563      540   533
Multan                    Mirpur Mathelo               Fauji
80-81     81-82    82-83        80-81     81-82    82-83         82-83
M--  illion Rupees ------- -
III.  Production Cost 2/
Fixed Costs
Depreciation                              212       212       212          183       183       183         273
Interest on Loans                         148       127       113          153       118       105         240
Working Capital Finance Charges            -         -         -            11         4        -           13
Maintenance Overheads                      62        68        75           45        50        54          54
Wages and Salaries                         35        39        42           Is        20        22          28
General & Adamin. Overhead                 40        44        35           20        22        24          36
Subtotal                               497       490       477         430       397       388          644
Variable
Natural Cas 3/                             94       114       136           65        80        98          69
Phosphate Rock 4/                         145       188       235
Catalysts & Chemicals                      57        71        86           10        13        16          13
Bagging                                    73        91       111           41        53        67          54
Subtotal                              369        464       568         116       146       181          136
Total Production Cost                     866       954      1045          546       543       569         780
Unit Cost Rs per Ton 5/  Urea            1750      1630      1560         1590      1350      1240        2110
Can           980       920       880
NP           2440      2410      2440
1/  A recent contract, however, was signed for RS 2800 per ton.  This is said to be due to the elimina-
tion of demand of the Soviet Union.
2/  Source:  XFC and Bank estimates. In current prices cost are escalated from a 1980 base at 10X per
annum.
3/  Gas costs for  lirpur Mathelo and Fauji are based on recent cost data which are about 502 higher than
shown in NFC estimates.
4/  Based on Rank projections of F(R phosphate rock prices.
5/  Costs for Moltan are app',rtloned on a nutrient ton basi  with th- exception of phohphate rock co-ts
which are all asslv,ned to iP.



- 45 -
ANNEX IV
Table 6
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Fertilizer Subsidy Projections 1/
FY81   FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Domestic Production N ('000 tons)                   514       617      837      897      923      923
"1          "1     P   "    "                     53       67       74        74       74       74
Total Requirements N  ('000 tons)                   873       960   1.050   1.150    1.270    1.391
"    p  1                           307       370      450      545      660      800
Total Cost Urea (Rs/ton)                          2.924    3.170   3.586    4.061   4.596   4.867
NP      ( " )                        3.660   3.963   4.511    5.153   5.906   6.244
DAP    ( " )                          3.683   4.125    4.764    5.504   6.361   6.724
Retail prices Urea (Rs/ton)                       1.934   2.320   2.786    3.340   4.014   4.867
NP   ( " )                        1.658   2.180   2.870   3.774   4.966   6.244
" DAP  ( " )                      2.108   2.676    3.394    4.312    5.480   6.724
Imports Urea ('000 tons)                            430      368        44       25      101      208
" NP   (  "    " )                         441      395       327      410      510      631
DAP  ("'" )                                331      461       654      819   1.019   1.263
SOP   C" "  )                               40       40       100      160      260      420
Subsidy on imports (Rs billion)                   1.831    1.685   1.467    1.558    1.435   0.000
N+P                                      0.085   0.129   0.206   0.293   0.369   0.000
K                                        1.916   1.814    1.673    1.851    1.804   0.000
Sub-total
Import Cost (Rs billion)                          4.204   4.818    5.081    7.301   10.984  15.250
Proportion of subsidy to import costs             0.456    0.377   0.329   0.254   0.164   0.022
Subsidy on domestic production (Rs billion) 0.289   0.219    0.135   0.040   0.000   0.000
Total subsidy (Rs billion)                        2.205   2.033    1.808   1.892    1.804   0.000
1/  Bank staff estimates based on the following assumptions:
(a) Domestic production: from IBRD Paper: Technical Review of Options,
Mimeo, February, 1980.
(b)  Total Requirements:  approaching NFDC projections by 1986 from
base of 1.2 million in FY81.
Implies growth of:
N at 9.75% pa.
P at 21.1% p.a.
Total at 15% p.a.
(c) Proportion of P import requirements imported in form of NIP falling
fron 0.5 in FY80 to 0.2 in FY83.
This is done so that desired nitrogen-phosphorus mix is
obtained without a surplus of Urea.
(d) Total Cost Assumption:
f.o.b. price trends from Technical
Review of options - Table 20
c.i.f. prices assumed to increase at
same rate as f.o.b. prices.
(e)  c.i.f. prices:  base for FY81 taken from the Planning Division
Worksheet, except for DAP where a c.i.f. price is taken
as the average of the initial assumed price, plus price obtained
on a recent large contract.
(f) Distribution margins - assumed at:
60 Rs/ton FY81
80 Rs/ton FY82
then increasing aL 10% p.a.
other incidentals rising at 10% p.a.
(g)  Retail prices for Urea, NP, DAF designed to eliminate subsidies by
end FY86 implies annual price increases at:
Urea 20% per year
NP   32% per year
DAP 27% per year
for Potassium, prices assumed to rise by 40% per year; two thirds
of subsidy/ton eliminated by FY86
(h)  Domestic subsidy: very rough calculations only, but these amounts
do not greatly influence the final result.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Table 7
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Historical Financing of Fertilizer Imports
Financing                                                                          Percent
Instrument                Urea       DAP        NP        SOP        Total       Distribution
--- ----------- US $ Million ---------------
1978-79
Cash                   47.875    7.514       8.994    3.343      67.726            25
One Year Credit        37.954         -    62.760          -    100.714            37
Loan                    7.844   40.727    11.718           -      60.289           22
Barter                  8.188         -          -         -       8.188            3
Grant                  16.900         -    17.570          -      34.470           13
Total          118.761   48.241   101.042    3.343    271.387             100
1979-80 1/
Cash                   60.795   37.841    12.989    6.449    118.074               35
One Year Credit        67.191    9.324    59.872           -    136.387            39
Loan                   14.498   17.396    14.679           -     46.573            13
Barter                 13.953         -      4.991         -      18.944            5
Grant                  13.364         -    15.120          -      28.484            8
Total          169.801   64.561   107.651    6.449    348.462             100
1/ Up to May 5, 1980
Source: Federal Planning Division, Government of Pakistan



- 47 -
ANNEX IV
Table 8
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Recent Fertilizer Import Prices
Financing                              CIF Karachi
Instrument                Urea       DAP        NP        SOP
--------- IS $ Per Mton --------
1978-79
Cash                      162      194       193        174
One Year Credit           179       -        216         -
Loan                      151      207       211         -
Barter                    153       -         --
Grant                     187       -        209         -
Average                   169      205       212        174
1979-80 1/
Cash                     241       420       325        161
One Year Credit          260       311       297         -
Loan                      230      241       321         -
Barter                    236       -        333         -
Grant                    292        -        164         -
Average                   250      336       273        161
1/ Up to May 5, 1980
Source: Federal Directorate of Fertilizer Imports.



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Table 9
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Sale Prices of Fertilizers and Principal Crops
Composition                                                                      1976-77
Fertilizers                        N-P-K    1969-70 1970-71 1971-72 1972-73 1973-74 1/ 1974-75 2/ 1975-76 3J 1977-78 41 1978-79 5/ 1979-80 71
Nitrogenous                                  ---------------------- Rs. per Kg of nutrient ---------------------------
Ammonium Sulphate              21-0-0        1.21    1.59    1.59    1.66    2.34          3.18       2.90        2.95        2.76       4.00
Ammonium Nitrate               26-0-0        1.27    1.64    1.64    1.71    2.42          3.29       2.95        2.95        2.80       3.85
Urea (Domestic)                46-0-0        1.24    1.35    1.35    1.66    2.35          3.54       2.90        2.73       2.73        4.04
Urea (Imported)                46-0-0        1.13    1.22    1.22    1.50    1.50          3.20       2.90        2.73       2.73        4.04
Phosphatic
Super phosphate                0-18-0        1.04    1.04    1.04    1.08    1.64          2.40       1.96        1.96        1.88       2.78
Triple Super phosphate         0-46-0        0.87    0.85    0.85    0.92    1.45          2.35       1.96        1.96        1.86
Potassic
Muriate of potash              0-0-60        0.58    0.57    0.57    0.57       -           -          -           -           -          -
Sulphate of potash             0-0-50        0.80    0.79    0.79    0.83    1.26          1.26        -           -          1.06       1.20
Compound (Phosphate price only) 6/
Nitrophos                      23-23-0       0.70    0.57    0.57    0.89    3.19          2.35       1.37        1.53        1.30       2.73
Di-Aamsonium phosphate         18-46-0       0.77    0.72    0.72    0.93    1.85          1.95       1.94        2.00        1.84       2.77
Crops
Wheat                              -         0.45    0.45    0.45    0.60    0.74          0.99       0.99        0.99        1.20       1.24
Basmati                            -         0.94    0.86    1.01    1.23    1.66         2.40        2.40        2.54       2.94        3.43
IRRI 6                             -         0.56    0.56    0.56    0.56    0.72          1.07       1.07        1.23        1.31       1.57
Seed Cotton (American)             -          -       -        -       -        -           -          -          3.34        3.69 to    3.98 to
4.2S       4.62
1/  August 1973
I/  Reduction of 12.5% in sale price from December 19, 1974 to January 31, 1975.
3t With effect from April 16, 1976.
4/  With effect from December 6, 1976; for fertilizer.
5/ With effect from October 17, 1978.
6/ On the assumIption that nitrogen is priced at that year's imported urea's nutrient price.
7/  With effect from February 24, 1980 for fertilizer and sugarcane prices and April 1980 for crop prices.
Source: Mfnigtry of Food, Agriculture and Cooperatives.



- 49 -
ANNEX IV
Table i0
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Response Ratios and their Economics I/
Response
kg product/                   Value/cost ratios (VCR)
Crop                     kg nutrient    1970-71   1974-75   1978-79   1979-80 2/
Nitrogen (N)
Wheat                     11.3             3.8        3.4       5.0        3.5
Rice, IRRI                10.1             4.2       3.4        4.9        3.9
Rice, Basmati              8.9             5.7        6.7       9.6        7.6
Sugarcane               142.0              7.7       5.8        8.2        8.6
Cotton                    4.7              5.2       3.1        7.3        5.4
Phosphorous P205
Wheat                     10.7             6.3        5.4       7.0        4.8
Rice, IRRI                8.9              6.9       4.9        6.3        5.0
Rice, Basmati              7.7             9.2        9.5      12.3        9.6
Sugarcane               105.0              6.7       5.8        8.8        9.1
Cotton                     3.3             4.2       2.9        7.6        5.5
1/ Based on responses from experimental results in Punjab during 1968-78.
2/ Post February 1980 price.
Source: National Fertilizer Development Centre.



- 50 -
ANNEX IV
Table 11
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Fertilizer,Financing Pattern 1/
by Tenure and Farm Size in Irrigated Areas
Non-Institutional Sources
Insti-                                                                Agri-
tutional    Friends or                  Commission                   cultural
Sources      relatives    Landlord          Agent      Shopkeeper  Processor  Other  Total
---- Percentage of Farmers Using Credit Sources ----------------
All Irrigated                             9            12             65            5              3            3         3       91
Farm Size (acres)                                       _
0 - 5                        7           20             58            12             3            0         0       93
6 - 12                       7            9             73             2             2            3         5       93
13 - 25                      11             9            63             6             4            7         0       89
26 +                         29            14            43             7             0            7         0       71
Tenurial Class
Owner                         23            20             13           13              8          15         8       77
(wmer cum Tenant              18            18            51             5              5           3         0        82
Tenant                         4             8            80             4              1           1         2       96
1/ NFC Survey in 1975-76.



- 51 -
ANNEX V
Table 1
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Financing Fertilizer Purchases
Projection             Actual
1980-81         1979-80 1/   1978-79
(US $ million)
I. Sources of Funds
AID
France                           2.0
Germany                          4.114
Japanese Credit                 14.843
Japanese Grant                   9.0
Netherland Credit                6.0
Norway Grant                     9.871
Islamic Dev. Bank               15.0
Miscellaneous                   39.172
Sub-total           100.00            75.057       94.759
BARTER
Czechoslovakia                   4.0
USSR                             6.0
DPR Korea                        4.0
Poland                           2.54
Sub-total            16.54            18.944        8.188
SUPPLIER CREDIT                        -            136.387      100.714
SHORT TERM BORROWING
AND CASH [GAP]                   283.46 2/       118.074       67.726
Total Sources        400             348.462 1/  271.387
II. USES OF FUNDS
Purchase of Fertilizer              400 3/         348.462 1/  271.387
Total Uses            400            348.462 1/  271.387
1/ Up to May 5, 1980. Pakistan's fiscal year is from July 1 to June 30.
2/ GOP is planning to finance this gap by allocating US$196 million
of its own cash and to borrow the balance from banks or as fertilizer
supplier credit.



- 52 -
ANNEX V
Table 2
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Irports Credit
Cost. Revenue and Suibsidv of Fertilizer Supply (1970-80, 1980-81)
Domtestic                              Dooestic                                       Opening Stock
Production I--   -orts       Total    Production    Imports         Total       July 1, 1979  July 1, 1980
     ----- ----- Thousand Nutrient Ton ----------
1979-80 1/                                1980-81 2/        -
Nitrogen                                  425            648        873          542           331         8:3           193.34         323.79
Phosphate                                  39            163        202           53           254         307           99.57           78.90
Potassiun                                   0             25         25            0            zO          20             5.76          11.76
Total                                  464           636       11O0           595          z605        1200          298.87          414.45
Total Coz; (Ps x 107)                  157.57        386.16      543.73       2C6.65       418.71 3/  625.36
Sale Proceeds                          144.68        187.22     331.90        232.40       206.02       438.42
Subsidy (-)                        -    36.57        198.94     235.51         28.87       212.69       241.56
Surcharge (+)                           23.68              0      23.68        54.62             0       54.62
Cost per ton (Rs)                        3396           6n72       4943         3473          6921        5211
Revenue per ton                          3118          2944        3017         3906          3405        3653
Subsidy per ton                           788           3128       2141          485          3515        2013
Surcharge per ton                         510              0        215          918             0         455
Subsidy as percent of cost (x)             23             52         43            14          5S           39
1/  Partly estimated.
2/ Projection.
31  If nAP prices co-tinue to be low (as they have been for the last few months) and  ,sing the price of a recent large
contract signed by GOP, the total  inport cost would became' RS 353.5 crores and the total subsidy about Rs 223.21 crores.
In this case, suibsidy as a percent of total cost would be about 36.7 percent.
Source: Federal Planning D)ivision.



-53-                                                                                   ANNEX V
Table 3
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Sensitivity Analysis 1/ of Fertilizer Subsidy for FY81
Total           Domestic           Total                                                              Ratio of
Import      Total
Requirements        Production   Costs of Imports           Retail Prices            Subsidy         Subsidy   Subsidy
to Import of Total
Case                                    N      P      K      N       P    Urea    NP    DAP        Urea    NP    OAF   Imp.  Dom. Total         Cost       Cost
('000 tons)                            (Rs/ton)                        (Rs billions)
Base Case
(a)  FY81 GOP Assumptions 2/           873   307   20       542    53    2914   3619  4038         1860   1560  2000   0.29  2.14  2.43 J          .509      .387
Sensitivity Analysis
(b) Domestic production
increased by 10%                873   307   20       569    56    2914   3619  4038         1860   1560  2000   0.31  2.06  2.37           .514      .381
(c)  Total Requirements of
fertilizer 1.1 million tons  798   282   20          542    53    2914   3619  4038        1860   1560  2000   0.29  1.84  2.13            .521      .380
(d)  Total requirements of
fertilizer 1.3 million tons  947   333   20          542    53    2914   3619  4038        1860   1560  2000   0.29  2.44  2.73            .501      .392
(e)  c.i.f. prices 10% above base
case estimates                  873   307   20       542    53    3152   3926  4385        1860   1560  2000   0.29  2.49  2.78            .546      .418
(f)  c.i.f. prices 10% below bas-
case estimates                  873   307   20       542    53    2676   3312  3691        1860   1560  2000   0.29  1.79  2.08            .465      .351
(g)  fertilizer retail prices
increased by 30% in             873   307   20       542    53    2914   3619  4038        1972   1654  2120   0.25  2.02  2.27            .481      .361
February 1981
I/ The following assumptions were used in estimating the entries in the table.
Total cost of Import: Includes CIF price (Karachi) and marketing incidentals (including retail dealer margins at Rs
50 per ton).
Domestic Subsidy: Calculated on a factory by factory basis.
Base Case (FY81) "(a)"; This is the estimate provided by GOP except that the retail dealer margins were increased to
Rs 50 per ton to reflect the recent July GOP decision to increase margins.
Sensitivity Analysis "(b)":  Increases in domestic fertilizer production assumd to occur in NFC plants (Multan, Mirpur
Mathelo); Private sector plants are already operating at more than 100%.
Sensitivity Analysis "(c), (d)": Changes in fertilizer use allocated proportionately between nitrogen and phosphate
products.
Sensitivity Analysis "(e), (f)": Cost components other than CIF prices assumed to remain as in the base case.
Sensitivity Analysis "(g)": The price increase of 30% is assumed to affect 20% (March-June) of fertilizer sales
during FY81.
2/  This subsidy estimate is based on the assumption, inter alia, that the average import cost of DAP would be Rs 3468 per ton.
However, due to ban of American sales to the Soviet Union, DAP prices have been soft since April 1980 (FOB prices fell from
US $260 per ton in March to US $205 in April 1980) and GOP was able to purchase 80,000 tons of DAP at US $280 per ton C&F
Karachi; in addition, mnother similar sized contract was being negotiated for US $300 per ton C&F Karachi. Together, these
two purchases represent about 30 percent of Phosphatic import requirements. This lower set of prices would reduce the
aggregate subsidy to Rs 2.2 billion.
Source: Bank staff estimates based on data provided by the Federal Planning Division, Government of Pakistan.



- 54 -
ANNEX V
PAKISTAN                                                                        Table 4
Fertilizer Imports Credit
Trend of World Fertilizer Prices
1979                                                      1980
July       Aug.    Sept.       Oct.      Nov.      Dec.      Jan.      Feb.       jar.    April      May      June
---------------------------------------------- US $ per m ton --------------------o---___________
I. Actual Prices 1/
Bulk TSP: FOB US Gulf                138-145  148-155  151-155  175-180  186-188  188-192  195-200  193-197  195-205  180-185                 172  168-172
Bulk DAP: FOB US Gulf                185-190  205-210  211-219  245-250  241-243  243-250  255-260  255-260  259-262  200-205  207-215  210-215
Bagged Urea: FOB Europe              165-175  170-180  175-180  190-200  185-195  185-190  190-200  200-210  200-210  205-210  205-210  210-220
Bulk Urea: FOB Europe                148-158  153-163  158-163  173-183  168-178  168-173  173-183  183-193  183-193  188-193                          -
Bulk Muriate of Potash:
FOB Canada                       75-78    77-79    78-80    85-90    90-95    95-100   95-105  110-120  110-120  110-115  115-120  115-120
Bulk Ammonia: FOB Europe             150-155  150-160  145-150  150-165  145-150  150-160  150-155  155-160  150-160  150-160  150-160  155-165
Containerized Phosphoric Acid:
Per Ton P205: FOB North Africa  285-295  285-300  290-310  310-330  320-340  320-340  365-385  375-385  375-385  380-385  380-385  380-385
Bulk Phosphate Rock:
FAS Casablanca                   32-38    32-38    32-38    32-38    32-38    32-38    45-50    48-52    48-52    48-52    48-52    48-52
II.  Average Freight Rate (Urea bagged)    20            33        23        33        34        35        44        38       38 2/      38 3/    38 3/    38 3/
III. Average Freight Rate (DAP Bulk)          57        85         -         -         -         -         -       110        -         0o0        -         -
IV.   Mininum Estimated C&F
Price (Karachi) for bagged urea   185          203       198       223       219       220       234       238       238        243       243       248
V.   Minimum Estimated C&F Price
(Karachi) for DAP Bulk               242       290         -         -         -         -         -       365        -         300        -         -
VI.  Minimum C&F Price (Karachi) for
bagged urea paid by Pakistan         198        -        240       198         -       220       228       226       228        205       243        -
VII. Pakistan Contract C&F (Karachi)
Prices for DAP by financing
mechanism 2/:
Cash (USA)                    -        -          -          -        -          -         -         -         -       290          -        -
Cash (USA)                    -        -          -         -         -         -          -         -         -       308          -        -
Cash (USA)                    -        -           -        -         -         -          -         -         -       290          -        -
Korean Credit                 -        -          -          -        -         -          -         -         -        283         -        -
Canadian Loan               266        -          -          -        -          -        -          -         -          -         -       -
Canadian Loan               266        -          -         -         -         -         -         -          -          -         -       -
Canadian Loan               267        -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -           -        -        -
Asian Dev. Bank               -        -          -         -         -         -         -       328         -           -         -        -
US Loan                       -      298          -          -        -          -         -         -         -          -         -       -
VIII.  Pakistan Contract C&F Karachi
Prices for Urea by financing
Mechanism:
One year credit             -        -        240       238         -       268        -         -         -          -         -         -
Cash                        -        -          -       201         -       223       228       226       228        242        -         -
Islamic Dev. Bank           -        -          -       198         -        -         -         -         -          -        243        -
Barter                      -        -          -       228         -        -        231        -        243        205        -         -
Japanese Credit             -        -          -         -         -       220        -        240        -          -         -         -
Japanese Grant            198        -          -         -         -       266        -         -         -
1/ British Sulphur Corporation
2/ FDFI
3/ Assuming February 1980 rate continues.



- 55 -
Annex V
Appendix A
LETTER FROM
MINISTER OF FINANCE, PAKISTAN
August 23, 1980
Dear Mr. Hopper:
1.        In accordance with the strategy set out in the Fifth Five-Year
Plan, the Government has been making intensive efforts to revitalize the
the agriculture sector and to achieve a more rapid growth in agricultural
production essential for meeting the basic needs of the population and
improving the balance of payments. The following main measures were taken
by the Government to reverse the decline in per-capita output experienced
in the preceding years:
(a) Sufficient imports of fertilizers and improvements in its
delivery system were made in order to maintain adequate
supplies at all times in different parts of the country;
(b) Pure and high-yielding varieties of wheat seed were provided
through large imports in 1978 as well as through subsidized
domestic purchases and sales;
(c) Cotton and rice maximization projects were introduced which
included components of extension and provision of quality
seed;
(d) The prices paid for major crops were raised closer to
international levels.
Other programmes such as a seed industry project, a substantially remodelled
extension project and on-farm water management projects were initiated
during this period with assistance from the World Bank and others, but these
would have impact in the coming years.
2.        The efforts of the Government have already borne fruit.  Value-
added in agriculture has increased at an average rate of more than 5% in
1978-79 and 1979-80, the first two years of the Fifth Plan. Although the
performance fell short of the 6% Plan growth rate target, mainly due to a
steep increase in fertilizer costs rather than output failure, it was well
above the realized growth rate of 2.2% in the previous years. The improve-
ment has been shared by more major crops. Increases in output of wheat,
rice and cotton are in keeping with or are ahead of the Fifth Plan growth
targets. In addition, rapid increases are taking place in certain minor
crops especially in the output of potatoes. Sugarcane output has declined
in this period and even though this mainly reflected a cyclical downturn,
the Government has recently announced major price increases which should
induce a sharp increase in output.



- 56 -
Annex V
Appendix A
3.         Unfortunately, the Fifth Plan programmes in the sectors of water
and agriculture have run into a severe constraint on financial resources.
As in the case of other developing countries, the external economic environment
facing Pakistan has become increasingly difficult; perhaps, more so than
in the case of other developing countries, for Pakistan has also experienced
a sharp decline in net aid inflows in addition to the worsening of its terms
of trade. We are hopeful that the level of net aid inflows would recover
somewhat but it is unlikely that they would rise to the real volumes of
previous years. Besides, the deterioration in the terms of trade appear
to be of a permanent nature.
4.         As a consequence, despite preferential treatment to agriculture and
water the Government has not been able to provide sufficient funds in the
first three years of the Fifth Plan to meet the full requirements of programmes
in these sectors and it is unlikely that this shortfall can be made good in
the remaining years of the Fifth Plan. The impact of insufficient allocations
on many programmes has been further worsened because the claims of Tarbela
repairs and of fertilizer subsidy have considerably exceeded the Plan pro-
visions. The prospects of a continuing resource constraint in the next few
years make it essential that the Government redefine and tighten its priorities
within the agriculture and water sectors. The efforts of the Government in
this regard will have the benefit of the draft report of the UNDP Indus Basin
Study which has provided helpful analysis and new data on the development of
irrigated agriculture.
5.         The need for revision in the agriculture strategy has been receiving
the attention and consideration of the Government. In th-is connection, a
comprehensive statement on agriculture policy was issued by the Government in
February 1980 which set out the approaches to be pursued in coming years to
realize the agriculture potential of the country and secure widespread,
balanced, sustained and rapid improvements in agricultural productivity and
incomes.
6.         In general, the Government has decided that the new programmes
should be such as to conserve available resources and yield maximum impact
on production in the short to medium terms. The amount of resources that
can be earmarked for such programmes would largely depend upon the aggregate
size of the ADP, the share of agriculture and water sectors in the ADP and
the amounts provided for ongoing projects and programmes within the sector's
allocation.
7.         The Government mounted a huge resource mobilization effort during
1979-80 fiscal year which consisted of enhanced rates of taxation, improvements
in tax collection and reductions in subsidies. The measures taken by the
Government enabled a sharp decline in recourse to bank financing of government
expenditure. The Budget for fiscal year 1980-81 also provides for measures
which, while containing inflationary financing to a low level, provides
a substantial increase in development expenditures. The Government intends
to give first priority to the requirements of programmes and projects in
the agriculture and water sectors.



- 57 -
Annex V
Appendix A
8.        Simultaneously the Government desires to change the mix of pro-
grammes in these sectors away from the emphasis hither provided to subsidies
and long-gestation projects. A notable feature of the Budget for 1980-81, a,
well as of the agricultural policy referred to earlier, is the definition of
the role of subsidies.  The aim of gradually aligning the pattern of prices
inside the country to international ratios has been explicitly stated. Once
the transition is complete, subsidies on consumer goods would be focussed on
and confined to meeting the needs of the very poor while subsidies on inputs
would be restricted to initial promotional functions. At the same time, the
amount of the subsidy bill is to be restricted to a reasonable level and
budgetary provisions for subsidies will, in the aggregate, be binding rather
than notional. In this connection, the Government recently increased ferti-
lizer prices by approximately 50% and slashed subsidies on pesticides oper-
ations.
9.        These measures of the Government will release resources for other
programmes in the agriculture and water sectors; and it is proposed to augment
them by gradually increasing the proportion of quick yielding projects in the
portfolio of water and agriculture sectors projects.
10.       To fulfil these objectives and bring about the proposed adjustment,
the efforts of the Government will have to be supported by external assistance
in the form of flexible and quickly disbursing loans. The proposed Fertilizer
Imports Credit provides this type of assistance and supports major policy
initiatives in the agricultural sector.
Investment Priorities
11.       The sustained development of agricultural production requires a
blend of projects, programmes and policies, which cover a wide range from
building new systems of irrigation to conserving water on the farms, from
providing price incentives to farmers to giving them technical assistance.
The choices have to take account of both economic and social necessities, of
both short and long term needs. In this context, however, it is necessary for
Government to appraise periodically whether the programmes and projects being
implemented reflect the proper blend. As I have mentioned, we have started a
review of programmes in the agriculture and water sectors which points towards
a pressing need to shift the emphasis from subsidies and long-gestation
projects to programmes and projects designed to bring about improvements in
cropping practices, conservation of water and maintenance of existing infra-
structure. As a matter of general policy, new commitments will focus on
projects addressing these aspects. Indeed, the Government has initiated a
review, which it hopes to complete soon, for such modification or rescheduling
of on-going programmes as do not entail much of an economic cost to make
room for the following types of projects:
(i) rehabilitation of the existing irrigation and drainage
system, accompanied by improved current maintenance;



- 58 -
Annex V
Appendix A
(ii) minor works, primarily below the mogha (canal outlet),
such as water-course and on-farm improvements, which
together with improved water scheduling will permit
available irrigation water supplies to be used more
efficiently;
(iii) necessary drainage in water-logged and saline areas to
complement the existing surface distribution and tubewell
system where adequate drainage is the key constraint;
(iv) promotion of private tubewell development in sweet
ground-water areas (including areas now under public
tubewells), where this is consistent with drainage
requirements;
(v) expansion of the role of the private sector in areas
such as milk marketing, pesticides, fertilizer, and
seed distribution;
(vi) agricultural research, extension services (through the
training and visit system), quality seed production
credit arrangements and other essential complementary
activities; and
(vii)  promotion of regional balance and social equity in
access to irrigation facilities.
12.       Initial steps to implement the above priorities, including increases
in water rates and provisicns for canal maintenance, are reflected in the agri-
culture and water sectors budgets for 1980-81; further adjustments will be made
in subsequent years. We intend to protect to the maximum extent possible the
ADPs for agriculture and water from any necessary budget cuts and to increase
the level and the relative amounts allocated to quick-yielding projects and
essential support services, as our overall resource position improves, and as
additional funds can be effectively utilized on such programmes.
Fertilizer Policies
13.       Through its marketing and subsidized pricing policies, the Government
has succeeded in increasing fertilizer availability and offtake considerably,
with favourable impact on crop production. As a result of the rise in world
fertilizer prices and the higher fertilizer usage, however, the cost of these
policies to the Government became unsustainable and adjustments to domestic
fertilizer prices have been initiated.
14.       An increase in fertilizer prices of about 50% was announced in
late February 1980. This reduced the fertilizer subsidy in FY81 by almost Rs
1.5 billion, about 35% of the level it would otherwise have reached during the
year. The Government intends to continue these price adjustments in a phased
manner, in conjunction with adjustments to output and consumer prices, to



- 59 -
Annex V
Appendix A
strengthen the overall budget situation and release funds for other high
priority development expenditures.
15.       In addition to the problems of predicting the impact of higher
domestic fertilizer prices on offtake, farm income and crop production, the
formulation of a new pricing policy for fertilizer is unusually difficult at
this time because of the acute uncertainty about world fertilizer prices.
Nonetheless, I recognize that despite this uncertainty and the complex
relationships involved, the establishment of a policy framework is essential
for physical and financial planning, management and control.
16.       The Government has accordingly adopted the following policy
framework:
(i)  The Government has eliminated the net subsidy on domesti-
cally produced fertilizer and intends to make such price
changes in future as are required to maintain this position;
(ii)  The Government intends to continue with price adjustments
aimed at lowering subsidies on imported fertilizer so long
as this does not render Pakistan's exports uncompetitive
in world markets, seriously disrupt cropping patterns or
impose socially unacceptable cost increases;
(iii)  The Government also intends to prevent fertilizer subsidies
from pre-empting a large proportion of development resources
in general and of funds earmarked for water and agriculture
sector programmes in particular. With this in view, the
Government intends to:
- set fertilizer prices consistent with a demand growth
rate of between 10 and 15% per annum;
- limit the fertilizer subsidy to around 39% of total cost
of fertilizer in 1980-81; and, provided world fertilizer
prices do not rise abnormally, to reduce it progressively
in each of the subsequent years with the objective of
eliminating it by June 30, 1985;
- de-link the fertilizer subsidy from allocations to
agriculture in general.
17.       The Government intends to make a continuing assessment of the
effects of the above policy framework, and consequent fertilizer price
adju,stments, on fertilizer use and productivity, farm incomes, farmer
incentives and crop production. The National Fertilizer Development Centre
will be assigned responsibility for collection and analysis of data and for
recommendations of pricing changes. The fertilizer policy framework may be
modified if the analysis and other pertinent considerations, including the
impact on the general levels of prices and incomes, demonstrate that this is



- 60 -
Annex V
Appendix A
necessary. Output prices will be set at a level designed to provide adequate
production incentives to farmers.
18.       With effect from July 1, 1980, the fertilizer subsidy will be
removed from the agricultural development budget and maintained as a separate
account. Any increase in the actual amount of the subsidy over the amount
budgeted for this purpose would not reduce the funds allocated for the agri-
cultural development budget. It will, therefore, be possible to plan other
agricultural programmes on a firmer basis than at present.
19.       Pakistan's exposure to adverse external developments in fertilizer
could be significantly reduced by the expansion and effective operation of
domestic fertilizer production capacity. The Government will take necessary
measures to attain high capacity utilization of the existing fertilizer plants
and new plants being set up in the public sector. We are also formulating
plans for further investment in the fertilizer sector over the next decade
and, in this context, will assess the adequacy of pricing policies and other
incentives for the fertilizer industry.
Project Review Procedures
20.       The severe financial constraints which Pakistan confronts have
underlined the need to strengthen the procedures for the review and approval
of new project proposals, in order to ensure that these proposals conform
with government priorities and resource availability. Instructions have
been issued to all concerned federal and provincial agencies that the necessary
PC-1 forms must be formulated and processed in accordance with standing
instructions, and that, in the case of foreign-aided schemes, full approval
of the CDWP must be obtained before project negotiations and of ECNEC before
finalization of project agreements.
Conclusion
21.       Over the past two years the Government has embarked on the neces-
sarily difficult and protracted task of structural adjustments to the Pakistan
economy. This letter outlines our recent and proposed action on selected
major issues in agriculture, which remains the mainstay of our economic
well-being. The reform process will obviously need to be continuous and
broadened to adjust the economy to changing world circumstances.
22.       The Bank's financial support will be essential for the success
of our structural adjustment efforts and we look forward to it. We will
be pleased to keep the Bank fully informed, and welcome your advice on
our development programmes and pricing policies in the agriculture and
water sectors discussed above, as well as on other key issues related to
the adjustment process as these unfold.
(signed)
GHULAM ISHAQ KHAN



-61 -                         ANNEX v
Appendix B
PAKISTAN
Fertilizer Imports Credit
National Fertilizer Corporation (NFC)
Action Plan
1.        The appraisal mission held extensive discussions with NFC and Pakarab
managements on the urgently needed actions to ensure adequate operations of
the Multan plant. The staffing situation at that plant, marked by a continued
exodus of qualified personnel, was generally recognized as untenable; a
similar situation is also expected to occur at NFC's Paksaudi plant which is
currently being commissioned.
2.        With regard to Section 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement,
it was recorded in the minutes of negotiations that the following components
should be included in the Action Plan:
a) Implementation of overall pay increases for managerial and
technical staff of Pakarab and Paksaudi to similar levels
of those practiced by the Fauji Fertilizer Company.
b) Implementation on a priority basis of a program to hire and
train personnel to fill shortages of personnel particularly
of managerial, supervisory and technical staff.
c) Implementation of a program to hire at least eight additional
expatriates in Pakarab to be employed until such time that
adequate Pakistani replacements can be hired and trained for
this purpose.
d) Reaching final agreement with Uhde/Stamicarbon regarding
correction of the design deficiencies encountered in the
CAN and NP plants and determine the need for any additional
finance that may be required to cover the cost of such
corrections.
3.        It was also recorded in the minutes of negotiations that, subject
to Government's approval, NFC expected to implement these components by
December 31, 1980, although some components are expected to be completed
earlier.



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Appendix B
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER IMPORTS CREDIT
Study of the Organization and Management of the
National Fertilizer Corporation and its
Principal Operating Subsidiaries
Terms of Reference
Background
When NFC was originally established, its role included coordination of
the existing four small and relatively simple fertilizer plants. The organization
and management structure of NFC and its subsidiaries as then set out were adequate
for their tasks. In 1980, however, technologically advanced plants (Pakarab and
Paksaudi) with more sophisticated management requirements are part of the NFC
mandate, and the organization and management structure of NFC and its subsidiaries
and the existing policies and procedures governing their relationship with the
Government require review.
Objective and Scope of the Study
The study will comprehensively analyze the existing organizational
structure and management policies and procedures of NFC's principal subsidiaries
(Pakarab and Paksaudi) and their relationship to the parent company. Recommenda-
tions are to be made to NFC and GOP, as appropriate, in the context of international
industry practice and within the confines of the local environment, to enhance
the companies' functioning and productivity. Among the specific subjects to be
addressed by the study are:
(1) the internal management structure and staffing levels
of the operating subsidiaries;
(2) the definitions and responsibilities of all technical
and administrative managerial positions, including an
assessment of needed qualifications and general levels
of remuneration;
(3)  the establishment of adequate career development and
technical and management training programs;
(4) management planning reporting and control systems;



- 63 -
ANNEX V
Appendix B
(5) the operational line and staff relationships and
responsibilities between NFC and the operating
companies; and
(6) the delegation of authority and/or reservation of
powers within the parameters established by the GOP,
between the GOP and NFC on one hand, and between
NFC and the operating companies on the other.
Consultants and Schedule
The study will be performed by an independent consulting firm
of international repute and experience in the fertilizer field. The
target for completion of the study is December 31, 1980.



