FILE    COPY                                              RESTRICTED
Report No. P-564
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accurocy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
EMPRESAS ELECTRICAS ASOCIADAS
FOR A POWER PROJECT
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
August 25, 1967



REPORT AND RECOM4ENDATION OF THE PRESIDEN4T
TO TIE EXEdCUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO &4P223AS ELECTRICAS ASOCIADAS
FOR A POWIFR PRtOJECT ,JITH THE
GUARANTEE OF TIHE
IREPUBLIC OF PERU
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US17c5 million to
Empresas Electricas Asociadas (Lima Light and Po-er Company).
PART I - HIST1ORICAL
2.        Empresas Electricas Asociadas has requested the Bank to help
finance the expansion of its power generating facilities and related dis-
tribution equipment. The Government of Peru is willing to guarantee the
loan. The proposed loan would be the fourth to Enipresas. Previous loans
were made in 1960, 1963 and 1966 for a total cf $lig million and were used
to finance the expansion of Empresas' power generating capacity and dis-
tribution network,
3.        Negotiations took place in Washington July 31 through August 11.
The Borrower was represented by Messre. N,,anuel Ugarteche, Aldo Bosselli
and Francisco Svo2sik. The Government of Peru wJas represented by Dr. Carlos
Gibson, Hinister Counsellor (Financial) in Washington.
4.        The proposed loan would increase total Bank lending to Peru from
$201.4 million to $218.9 million. The status of the previous loans as of
July 31, 1967 is as follows:
Loan                                                  Amount   Undisbursed
No.      Year         Borrov:e            Purpose         US$ millon;
1952-65  Various borrowers
including the Republic  Various     115,4
of Peru
208 PE   1958     Callao Port Authority   Port          6.6      05
334 PE   1963     Peruvian Corporation    Railways     13.2       0.4
373 PE   1964     Republic of Peru        Port          3.1       0.1
418 PE   1965     Republic of Peru        Irrigation   11.0       9.0
425 FE   1965     Republic of Peru        Roads        33.0      27.6
446 FE   1966     Republic of Peru        Port          9.1       7.1
464 PE   1966     Empresas Electricas
Asociadas               Power        10.9       5.7
Total (less cancellations)          201.4



-2-
Amount Undlsbursed
~~ t5$ million)
Total (less cancellation)                 20104
of which has been repaid                 38.1
Total now outstanding                     163.3
Amount sold:                 16.8
of wihich has been repaid  11.4        __4
Total now held by Bank                     157.9
Total undisbursed                                       50o4
No IDA credits have been made to Peru.
5.        With three exceptions, the loans to Peru are being disbursed sub-
stantially on schedule. Considerable difficulties have delayed the Port of
Callao expansion; these have finally been overcome and the proJect is expec-
ted to be completed in 1968.  The San Lorenzo Irrigation Project has also
encountered difficulties, caused, among other things, by a shortfall in water
supplies and a lack of continuity of management, The Bank is considering a
proposal submitted by the Peruvians for reducing the project area. The re-
habilitation program of the Peruvian Corporation is nowi almost complete and
the loan almost disbursed, but the company is experiencing severe financial
difficulties. Discussions are under way with the Borrower and the Gua;rantor
in an attempt to secure an improvement in the Corporation's financial positicn.
6.        IFC's gross commitments at June 30, 1967 amount to $8.6 million
of which 'p5.0 million is held by the Corporation.  Currently outstanding
investments are in two cement companies, Cemento Andino app;^oximately $2.3
million and Cemento Pacasmayo $291,400; a fertilizer producer, Fertilizantes
Sinteticos approximately $1.2 million, and a brick manufacturingf company
Luren & Ladrillos $115,000.  Presently urnder consideration are projects for
a new fertilizer factory and for a chain of four hotels.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                       Empresas Electricas Asociadas
Guarantor:                      Republic of Peru
Amount:                         $17.5 million
Purpose:                        To help finance the expansion of
the power generating facilities
of the Borrower, and related
distribution equipment.



-3-
Terms of Amortization:         20 years including, a grace period
of five years, First repayment
date November 15, -972, last
repa;meat date No-ember 15, 1992.
Interest Rate:                 6%
Commitment Fee:                3/8 of 1% per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled tMatucena Power Project", is attached
(TO-596a)
9.        Empresas Electricas have to date been the exclusive supplier of
power to the Lima metropolitan area which has the greatest concentration of
population and industries in Peru. The company's service area has been
increased several times, and now extends both north and south along the ccast
from Lima and inland into the Sierra. The present capacity of the system
is 485 MW.  The demand for power in this area has been steadily increasing.
Empresas' system demand has grown on the average by 10 percent annually
during the past 20 years and at least comparable increases can be expected
in the next several years. The Peruvian Government has initiated a large
hydroelectric scheme on the Yfantaro river which is scheduled to supply power
to the Lima area after 1973.  To meet demand until then, a further expansicn
of the Empresas' generating facilities is required.
10.       Empresas Electricas was incorporated in Peru in 1910.   At the
end of 1966 it had about $37 million equivalent of common shares and $10
million of 8 percent preferred shares. It is controlled by a Swiss group
holding about 32 percent of the stock. Ten percent is held by other investors
outside Peru. The remaining 58 percent is held by over 3,000 Peruvian
investors.  The Electric Industry Law, which was enacted in 1955, allows
privately-owned public utilities to adjust power rates so as to earn gross
revenues sufficient to cover operating costs and give a return, in the case
of large companies such as the Borrower, of up to 11.5 percent on the capital
invested by the concessionaire.  The Law has been applied effectively and the
company's financial position is sound. The company's contribution to its
expansion program from internal cash generation is 27.5 percent. This
percentage is modest, but results from a relatively high dividend pay-out,
which has enabled the company to raise new equity in the market from time
to time. In April 1967, the company placed US$6-3 million of its preferred
shares. Common share issues totalling over US$9 million equivalent are
planned for the next three years.
11.       The first two Bank loans helped Empresas to finance the expan-
sion of the generating capacity needed to cope with the increase in power
demand. The projects financed with the first and second loans (the Huinco
hydro plant and the Marcapomacocha diversion) have been completed.   The



- 4 -
project helped by the third loan - expansion of inpresa.5' distribution
network - is on schedule. Empresas now plains to expand further both
generating and distr-.buting system capacity, in order to continue to be
able to meet market requirements.
12.       The project consists of the 120 MW Matucana hydroelectric power
station on the Rio Rimac, a 220 KV double circuit steel tovwer transmission
line about 80 km long froam the power station to Lima and associated sub-
stations, and meters, communications equipment, distribution cables and
other items for the expansion of the distribution system. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1971.
13,       The proposed loan would be used to finance the foreign exchange
cost of equipment, consulting services and interest during construction.
All goods financed with the loan would be purchased in accordance with the
Bank's normal standards of international competitive bidding. Peruvian firms
would be permitted to participate in thne bidding and would be allowed a
15 percent preference in the evaluation of bids, but if they were successful,
Empresas would use resources other than the Bankc loan to finance purchases
from them. Civil works contracts for the prcJect (which would not be
financed by the loan) are being awarded after competition among Peruvian
contractors. Since local contractors have ample experience in the type of
work involved, mainly tunnelling, and a substantial cost advantage, such
contracts have not been attractive to foreign firms.
14.       The total estimated cost of the project is $50.5 million of which
$17.5 million would be provided by the Bank- and the balance generated
within the company or obtained from sales of shares and debentures. The
proposed loan, together with the $7.5 million that was not yet disbursed at
January 1, 1967, of the 1966 loan would finance about 25 percent of Empresas'
total investment expenditures in the period 1967-70.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTI14ORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Empresas Electricas
Asociadas (Li-ma Light and Power Company), the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Republic of Peru and the Bank, the letter on rates and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(ii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
16.       Since the Borrower already has outstanding debentures, including
debentures required by previous loan agreements, issued pursuant to an
Indenture administered by a trustee, th.e Loan Agreement provides (Sections
4.01, 4.02 and 5.04) that the proposed Loan will be evidenced by additiona]
debentures issued under the same Indenture. The Indenture establishes a
first floating charge upon all tangible and intangible property of the
Borrower and provides that additional debentures may be issued only if net
income and net tangible assets tests have been met. The usual form of the
Bankts negative pledge has been changed to accommodate it to existing liens
permitted under the Indenture (Section 5.05).



17.       The Loan Agreement contains no rate covenant because the Bank
relies with respect to rates on Peruts Electrical Industry Law, The
letter on rates sets forth the arrangements between the Guarantor and the
Bank with respect to changes in said Law and Section 6.02(b) of the
Loan Agreement provides that any material and adverse change in that Law
is an event of default.
18.       The public sale by the Borrower of 25 million Swiss franc deben-
tures is a condition of effectiveness. This sale is part of a Financing
Plan agreed with the Borrower during negotiations.
PART V - ECONOMIC
19.       Recent economic developments are described in the attached economic
memorandum.  In spite of the continued growth of production and exports in
1966, Peru has run into serious financial difficulties due essentially to a
rapid increase in public expenditures, combined with a steady rise in private
consumption and investment.  Measures bad been ta"en towards the end of 1Q65
to restrain the grow¢th of demand, but these proved ineffective. The Peruviaxn
Congress, which is controLled by the Opposition, has rnot voted the additional
taxes needed to pay for greatly increased expenditures on economic and
social development, teachers' salaries and defense, and the Government has
been forced into borrowing heavily from the banking system at home and from
suppliers and banks abroad in order to meetits obligations. Inflationary
pressures have been reflected in rising domestic prices and in a sharp
deterioration of the balance of payments, and a crisis of confidence developed
in May of this year leading to a run on foreign exchange reserves.  Congress
authorized the Government to take emergency action to deal with the crisis,
and a series of remedial measures were approved in June, including a substai-
tial increase in import duties and some cuts in government expenditures.
These measures helped to check the outflow of short-term capital, but there
was some further loss of foreign exchange reserves in July and August.
20,       In the middle of August the Peruvian Goverrment concluded a stand-
by arrangement with the L,F within the first credit tranche.  The economic
and financial program outlined in the Finance Minister's letter to the
Managing Director of the Fund among other things calls for a progressive
reduction of the fiscal deficit and achievement of a balanced budget in the
year beginning April 1968, for some rebuilding of net foreign exchange re-
serves in the last quarter of this year and the first quarter of next, for
tight restrictions on short-term borrowing abroad and for limiting other
public sector borrowing abroad to loans with a maturity of at least five years
and to suppliers' credits with a maturity of at least ten years. A key
feature of the program is the Government's declared intention to ask Congress
for new tax measures, including a real estate tax and increases in gasoline
taxes, that will produce additional revenues of at least SI. 2.5 billion
(nearly $100 million) in the fiscal year 1968.
21.       If such measures are enacted, public savings could well be restored
to a level at which they might be financing about half of public investment.



- 6 -
However, the program will be very difficult to achieve, and the Peruvian
Government has undertaken to consult with the Fand if the intentions set
forth in the letter are not carried out, and particularly if Congress fails
to adopt the necessary additional taxation or if the desired accumulation
of foreign exchange reserves is not attained. The balance of payments has
in the meantime been buttressed by a $40 million five-year loan from UoDSe
commercial banks.  This loan has been fully drawTn, and most of the proceeds
have been used to repay a 90-day loan of $30 million obtained from the banks
earlier in the year,
22.       Peru's external public debt has risen sharply during the past
three years, and during the peak years 1968-70 projected service on debts
reported up to the end of last January will absorb close to 13 percent (with
the new borrowing from U.S. commercial banks and sarne other loans contracted
since January this will probably be about 14 percent) of Peru's current
account earnings net of profit remittances by major foreign mining companies;.
However, the picture improves considerably beyond 1970, and the economy
possesses a great deal of basic strengtLh. If the balance of payments situ-
ation does not deteriorate substantially, and if the Government pursues a
cautious policy in the incurring of new external credits, Peru should have
no serious difficulty in servicing its external debt, and there is room for
moderate additional foreign borrowing for high priority projects for which
there is a sound basis of domestic financing. Siich is the case of the
Matucana Power Project.
23.       In present circumstances, however, it is very difficult for the
Bank to consider loans for projects 4n Peru which would require substantial
public sector funds for their execution, and the Government has been informed
that such projects may have to be deferred until its financial situation
is clarified and it is able to present sound plans for mobilizing the necess-
ary complementary domestic financial resources. Meanwhile, we have been
continuing our assistance to Peru in project preparation in the hope that
effective fiscal action will soon be taken. An education project has been
appraised and appears promising; an agricultural credit project is under
appraisal; a project for livestoek development in the Amazon region (the
Selva) has been identified by an FAO mission; several road studies are well
advanced; the Government has recently commissioned engineering studies for
new ports; and a feasibility study for a large irrigation project is being
reviewed by FAO and the Bank.
24.       In 1966, the Bank organized a Consultative Group for Peru.   There
have been no meetings of the Group in 1967, for the Bank felt, and the Govern-
ment agreed, that until the Government had the resources needed to undertake
major new commitments in the public sector, no useful purpose would be served
by calling the Group together. However, the Bank has kept the Group informed
of developments in Peruts economic and financial situation, and will continue
to do so.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Mproval. of Loan to Empresas Electricas Aso'eiarias
(Lma Light and ower Company) in       anmconmt
Lquivalent to US$17,500,000 to be
guaranteedbFhTej5     blic of Peru
RESOLVED:
'II.AT the Ean3: shal! grant a loan to Erpreesas Electr.cas
Aeociade.s (LIi,na Li-gt and .Fower Company) to be guaranteed
by the Republic of Peru, in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventeen million five hundred thousand
United States dollal's (WS$'7,500,000), to mature on and
prior to Novenfber 15, 1992, to bear interest at the rate
of six percernv (6;< per ar:ni-m, a2nd to be upon such other
terms ard conditions as Ehall be substantially in accord-
ance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form
of Loan Agreement (r4atucana Power Project) between the Bank
and Empresas Electricas Asociadas (Lima Light and Powier
Company), and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Matucana
Power Project) between the Repuo'Lic of Peru and the Bank,
which have been presented to this meeting.
G5orge D, Woods
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachment
August 25, 1967



