                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 35375

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (IDA-29910 PPFI-Q0340)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20.9 MILLION

                           TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF

                                   TANZANIA

                                    FOR THE

                    HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT 1 PROJECT




                                  JUNE 27, 2006




Human Development 1 (AFTH1)
Country Department 4
Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 1997)

                            Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shillings
                                    1 SDR = US$ 1.39408
                                    US$ 1 = 624 Tsh
                             1 Tsh = US$ 0.0016025
                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 -  June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASCE      Advanced School Certificate Examination
BEDC      Basic Education Development Committee
BEMP      Basic Education Master Plan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CEF       Community Education Fund
CSEE      Certificate of Secondary Education Examination
Danida    Danish International Development Assistance
DBSPE     District Based Support Project
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DEO       District Education Officer
DO        Development Objectives
DFID      Department for International Development (UK)
EFA       Education for All
ESDP      Education Sector Development Program
ETP       Education and Training policy
GER       Gross Enrollment Ratio
GNP       Gross National Product
GoT       Government of Tanzania
GSES      Girls' Secondary Education Support
HRDP      Human Resources Development Pilot Project
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
ISR       Implementation Status Report
LGA       Local Government Authority
LGRP      Local Government Reform Program
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluatio
MOEC      Ministry of Education and Culture
MOEVOC    Ministry of Education and Vocational Training
MoF       Ministry of Finance
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
NECTA     National Examination Council of Tanzania
NER       Net Enrollment Ratio
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
PEDP      Primary Education Development Program
PIU       Project Implementation Unit

PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PMO      Prime Minister's Office
PSG      Project Support Group
PSLE     Primary School Leaving Examination
PTR      Pupil Teacher Rati
QEA1     Quality at Entry Assessment
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SEDP     Secondary Education Development Program
SSS      Social Sector Strategy
Tsh      Tanzanian Shillings
UPE      Universal Primary Education
WB       World Bank

                          Vice President:  Gobind T. Nankani
                        Country Director   Judy M. O'Connor
                         Sector Manager    Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Rest Barnabas Lasway

                                          TANZANIA
                               Human Resource Development I


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             28
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33
Annex 8. Borrower Implementation Completion Report                               35
Annex 9. MAP of TAnzania - IBRD 33494                                            86

Project ID: P002789                                                  Project Name: Human Resource Development I
Team Leader: Rest Barnabas Lasway                                    TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Human Resource Development I                             L/C/TF Number: IDA-29910; PPFI-Q0340
   Country/Department: TANZANIA                                                            Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Secondary education (43%); Primary education (33%); Central government administration
                            (24%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Participation and civic engagement (P); Access to urban services and
                            housing (S); Gender (S); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/15/1989                                     Effective: 02/18/1998                02/18/1998
     Appraisal: 02/25/1996                                         MTR: 02/02/2000                  02/02/2000
      Approval: 10/07/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Judy M. O'Connor                               James W. Adams
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:             Rest Barnabas Lasway                           Charles C. Griffin
ICR Primary Author:             Hongyu Yang


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No


Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA1) was conducted by QAG in FY98. The overall rating was
Highly Satisfactory.
During implementation, QAG assessed Quality of Supervision for this project in 2004 (QSA6).
The overall rating was Satisfactory.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


Background
The Human Resources Development Pilot Project was prepared during the mid 90s. At that time,
the key issues for the education sector in Tanzania were low enrollments and poor quality in
primary and secondary education, insufficient financial resources for non-salary spending at the
primary school level, inadequate school-level management, little accountability to parents and
communities. The Government of Tanzania recognized these problems. It proposed a framework
for the social sectors, The Social Sector Strategy (1994) with basic principles on decentralizing
authority to the local level, promoting high quality standards, moving resources closer to
households, and promoting household investment in human capital.

In 1995, The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) prepared an Education and Training
Policy (ETP) that stressed liberalization of the education sector to match with the rest of the
economic reforms and raising the accountability of service providers to clients. The ETP covered
the broader education sector and it was the first step towards developing an Education Sector
Development Program (ESDP). Within this context, a draft Basic Education Master Plan (BEMP)
was produced in 1997 as part of the design and management process for an ESDP. These
documents recognized the need for an adequately funded, pluralistic school system that could
benefit from greater involvement of parents and local government in management. The BEMP
built on innovations that were generated from different Donor financed projects focusing on
school-based management. This was made possible through the decentralized policy which was
being implemented in the country.

The Human Resources Development Project aimed at testing some concepts that would help to
improve the status of primary and secondary education. Pilot testing started with five districts and
expanded to sixteen. Before the piloting, pretesting of the design of the pilot on Community
Education Fund (CEF) and girls scholarships was conducted between 1996 and 1997. Feedback
resulting from the pretesting enabled revisions to be made in the design to better manage risks. In
the same year, Tanzania Government abolished school fees and other levies for primary education
to achieve universal primary education (UPE). The decision to abolish school fees was based on:
(i) the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, that emphasized equitable provision of primary
education and (ii) analytical work carried out by NGOs which revealed that most parents could
not afford school fees and other contributions amounting to approximately Tshs. 48,000 (almost
USD 45) per child per year. Under the Primary Education Development Program (PEDP)
launched in 2001, the Government started to implement the capitation and development grants
policy which enabled financial resources to be disbursed directly to schools to ensure equitable
access to primary education and quality improvement. Therefore, compulsory contributions from
parents and communities for matching grants were not scaled up.




                                                 - 2 -

3.1 Original Objective:
The Tanzania Human Resources Development Project (HRDP) was a pilot project financed by an
IDA Credit of SDR 15 million (equivalent to US$20.9 million). It was approved on October 7,
1997 and closed on December 31, 2005 as scheduled in the Development Credit Agreement.

The objective of the project was to enhance Tanzania's education sector through:

(a)     raising enrollments in primary education and improving its quality/learning outcomes
through raised parental participation and financing; using school-based planning, management of
resources, and school-based quality enhancement initiatives; and improving support for schools at
the district level;

(b)     expanding educational opportunities and improving quality at the secondary level,
particularly for girls from economically disadvantaged households;

(c)     building capacity through these programs at the district and community levels and through
selective training and project implementation at the central level; and

(d)     improving policy development, planning, and research in the education sector through
modernized testing and statistics systems, operations research, policy studies, and strategic plans
for basic and secondary education.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objective was not revised during implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project cost was estimated at US$24.03 million with a Government contribution of US$3.16
million. The project comprised of four components (Table1).

                         Table 1. Appraisal Estimated Costs (US$ million)
 Component                                              Total         IDA    GOT       Ratings
                                                     (IDA+GOT)
 I. Community Education Fund                             8.17         5.01    3.16       HS
 II. Girls' Secondary Education Support                  6.93         6.93                S
III. Capacity Building                                   2.22         2.22                S
IV. Policy Development, Planning, and Research           4.49         4.49                S
 Total Base Cost                                        21.81        18.65
Contingencies and refund of PPF                          2.22         2.22
 Total/                                                 24.03        20.87    3.16        S
        HS=Highly Satisfactory; S=Satisfactory

Component I ­ Community Education Fund -CEF (US$8.17 million or 37 percent of the
total base cost).
The CEF was a matching fund program designed to increase public funding for non-salary


                                                - 3 -

spending at the school level and empower communities to improve their primary schools. It
aimed at raising enrollments and improving quality of primary education through: (i) increased
parental participation and financing; (ii) school based planning and management of resources; (iii)
school-based quality improvement initiatives, and (iv) improved support of schools at district
level. It would provide matching grants to about 500 primary schools in five poor districts as part
of a pilot community education initiative to finance community-based school activities including:
(i) construction and rehabilitation of school buildings; (ii) acquisition of school textbooks and
teaching materials; and (iii) acquisition of furniture and equipment. Implementation of the CEF
piloting would cover the period between 1998-2000.

Component II ­ Girls' Secondary Education Support - GSES (US$ 6.93 million or 32
percent of the total base cost).
This component intended to improve access to secondary education for girls from economically
disadvantaged households and to improve the quality at the lower secondary level for all girls in
participating secondary schools. It would provide scholarships for academically able girls who
would not otherwise be able to attend lower secondary schools for financial reasons. IDA would
finance the bursaries plus the cost of setting up and managing the GSES program. In addition,
schools that participated in the GSES program would solicit academic improvement plans, which
would receive grants on a competitive basis. The GSES would provide bursaries to a total of
3,415 girls. The last year of enrolling new students to join secondary education for the bursary
support would be 2000. The girls would then be supported until they complete lower secondary
education in 2003 for O Level and 2004 for A Level.

Component III ­ Capacity Building (US$2.2 million or 10 percent of the total base cost).
This component aimed at developing capacity to implement CEF and GSES at all levels. It would
help the MOEC to formulate and carry out innovative solutions to problems in primary and
secondary education. Specifically, it would provide training to district officials, teachers, and
administrators of participating primary, secondary schools, parents of primary school pupils, and
other interested community members. It would finance professional training to selected MOEC
staff and education professionals in areas of education policy, management and financing which
were considered of high priority at the time the project was designed.

Component IV ­ Policy Development, Planning, and Research (US$4.49 million or 21
percent of the total base cost).
This component intended to strengthen policy development, planning, and research in the
education sector through improving testing system in National Examination Council (NECTA)
and statistics system in MOEC, operations research, policy studies, and strategic sector
development plans, by:

a)      providing computer hardware, software and technical advice to the NECTA and MOEC
Statistics Unit;

b)      strengthening MOEC's capacity in carrying out monitoring and evaluation of pilot
activities, carrying out household, community, school and other beneficiary assessment surveys to
make such data available to all education researchers;



                                                  - 4 -

c)      building MOEC's capacity in targeting and measuring educational subsidies and tracking
the impact of its subsidy policies on the economically disadvantaged and strengthening MOEC's
capacity for strategic policy development in primary and secondary education.

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions were made to the components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The World Bank (WB) Quality Assurance Group (QAG) assessed the quality at entry for this
project in FY98 (QEA1). The overall assessment was rated Highly Satisfactory. Among the
eight quality at entry dimensions, project concept, objectives and approach, technical and
economic, poverty and social, and readiness for implementation aspects were rated Highly
Satisfactory, the rest were Satisfactory or Not Applicable (Table 2).

Table 2. QAG Quality at Entry Assessment Ratings for HRDP

     Quality Dimension                                                            Rating

     Overall Rating                                                      Highly Satisfactory
     1. The project's concept, objectives and approach                   Highly Satisfactory
     2. Technical and economic aspects                                   Highly Satisfactory
     3. Environment aspects                                              Not Applicable
     4. Poverty and social aspects                                       Highly Satisfactory
     5. Financial management aspects                                     Not Applicable
     6. Institutional capacity analysis                                  Satisfactory
     7. Readiness for implementation                                     Highly Satisfactory
     8. Risk assessment and sustainability                               Satisfactory
     9. Bank inputs and process                                          Satisfactory
         Sources: QAG file, World Bank,1998.

The HRDP was clearly linked to and consistent with Tanzania's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which was to efficiently increase investment in human capital to raise incomes, reduce
inequality, and improve non-market outcomes. The Development Objective (DO) was clear and
specific. The education sector knowledge and the Government's Social Sector Strategy in
education were considered to underpin the project design.




                                                   - 5 -

The task team and the Government used lessons and experiences from the previous projects in
Tanzania. The design explicitly tried to push decision-making authority and resources as close to
the final user as possible, and place much of the responsibility for monitoring performance at that
level. The task team and the Government also made efforts to reduce administrative complexity
by cutting components, assuring that they are complementary, and focusing on high-impact
activities.

On the poverty and social aspects, the project design was consistent with the CAS. It targeted the
poor, by including the districts considered to be the poorest. The five and eight districts selected
for CEF and GSES respectively were among the poorest in the country. The GSES program
supported girls from poor households to achieve secondary education.

On the monitoring and evaluation aspect, the Project Appraisal Report (SAR) included a logic
framework, but without clear outcome indicators. In some cases, the indicators for measuring
progress toward achieving these outcomes were imprecise. Some of the indicators had no
baseline data. The ICR team had to consult various documents (SAR, DCA, Project
Implementation Plan, ISRs, and Borrower's Annual Project Reports) to construct the data in
Annex 1. Although a full time Monitoring and Evaluation expert was hired to work with the
project, the design could not be used by the Government. On handing over the project at
effectiveness stage, the Task Team Leader (TTL) at the time expressed that the monitoring and
evaluation design was too sophisticated to be operationalised by the Government. This defeated
the purpose of having a monitoring and evaluation instrument. As a result some basic data was
not collected. This prevented proper systematic analysis to be carried out to measure
implementation progress, and caused difficulties in monitoring and assessment of project progress
and impact, as well as targeting poor communities and households for matching grants and
scholarships provision in accordance with income levels. The Bank implementation team
confirmed this weakness during the mid-tern review.

At the time the project was designed, Tanzania was already implementing a decentralized policy
under the Local Government Authorities. Although implementation of the decentralization was in
its initial stages, there was no attempt to link implementation with local authority institutions in a
systematic way. Instead, a lot of responsibilities were left at the level of a PIU that was
insufficiently linked to the different levels of the MOEC and officials at the district level who were
appointed coordinators with responsibility only to the PIU. This denied the opportunity to test
the capacity of local authorities to support the strategy. It also prevented the use of institutional
resources at the local level to support project implementation which could have enhanced the
impact of the pilot as was demonstrated in the PEDP. The PIU was therefore, over stretched and
provided less than optimum supervision overall. This also resulted into high operational and
transaction costs.

The design did take into consideration the different economic levels that would exist within a
districts by providing for various levels of matching grants. However, it was often difficult to
determine how to classify communities by income levels, and the increases in the ratios of
matching grants did not sufficiently compensate for the income differentials among communities.



                                                   - 6 -

This led to better-off communities benefiting more from the matching grants due to their ability to
contribute more compared to the weak communities.

Based on the above analysis, the ICR team rated the quality at entry Satisfactory rather than
Highly Satisfactory rated by QAG.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


ICR Rating: Satisfactory
HRDP has satisfactorily achieved its objectives and met all targets, in some cases surpassed
specific targets on (i) increased financial resources at the school level; (ii) raised enrollments at
the primary education level through parental and community participation, especially for the poor
districts; (iii) improved quality of learning outcomes at primary and lower-secondary education;
(iv) supported girls from poor families to study at secondary schools; and (v) built/enhanced
capacity at school, community and district levels.

The following are the major outcomes/achievements of the objectives:

Improved Financing and Financial Management. The non-salary funding to primary schools
rose. In the CEF schools, average per student spending was more than doubled, when comparing
financial year 1998 with 2001. During the same period, CEF schools spent an average of Tsh.
8,293 (about US$8) per pupil per year on non-salary spending nearly four times the average of
non-salary spending of Tsh. 2,366 (about US$2) contributed by parents as school fees in
non-CEF schools, but excluding the other household contributions. According to Government
policy, resources mobilized at community levels for school development remains at school level.
Therefore, the CEF remained at the community level to support implementation of school level
plans.

In 2000, the MOEC decided to expand the CEF and GSES participating districts from five and
eight to 16 respectively, out of a total of the 114 districts in the Country. The rationale and
criteria for expansion to more districts was not clear, and it was not part of the project design.
Although, the decision made might have been a good one, the key issues however, were that (i)
the criteria for selecting districts for the expansion was not sufficiently substantiated (ii) there
was no analysis carried out to determine the costs and capacity needed to implement the project
which was more than doubled in terms of number of districts and scattered out geographically;
(iii) implementation period of the project was less in the new districts than the original ones,
particularly the CEF component which ended in 2000. There is no information to indicate if the
expansion was efficiently carried out; and if the impact achieved was uniform in all districts.
Therefore, while the first five districts covered by the CEF were selected on the basis that they
were the poorest, this was not the case with the 11 districts selected at the expansion phase.
However, according to the PIU, the schools in these new districts were relatively poor. Taking
into consideration of equity, poorer districts could receive a matching of 1:2 or 1:3 rather than the
1:1. Nonetheless, the increased ratios were only effective during the last year of the CEF
implementation in 2001 benefiting about 150 out of 1,600 schools. This was a result of the



                                                   - 7 -

recommendations made during the Mid-term Review carried out in 2000.

Increased Parental Involvement and Improved School Management. Community ownership,
participation and accountability in education were enhanced. All school communities met the
minimum requirement of developing school plans, and many were helping in monitoring their
implementation. According to the Education Act of 1978, each school is supposed to have a
school committee responsible for matters affecting school development. The CEF helped to
strengthen the functioning of these committees, through preparation of school plans which were
integrated into the overall village plans. The plans were then discussed and endorsed by the
village assemblies. In this regard, the CEF helped to strengthen the school planning process by
school committees and endorsed by village level assemblies. This contributed to Government's
efforts to enhance good governance at school levels, through the existing school and community
decentralized structures.

Parents are willing to contribute to schools because the funds were used to improve the schools
their children attended. The incentive provided by the matching ratio and the procedures put in
place gave them confidence that the funds were being properly used. They could see that they
were getting something tangible that they valued. They believed that they could hold school
authorities accountable for proper use of the funds.

Learning Environment Improved. When CEF started school buildings were dilapidated
because of poor maintenance, and classrooms were not enough. Availability of funds through the
CEF enabled schools to construct 1,554 classrooms and 420 teachers' houses, including about
18,000 pupil desks. This contributed to improved teaching and learning environment. The school
improvements generated an enthusiastic response from communities in managing school affairs.

Enrollments at Primary Level Increased. Absolute enrollment numbers in CEF schools rose
from 518,861 in 1998 to 658,119 in 2001, a 32 percent increase. Based on the PIU reported
data, the average net enrollment for CEF districts rose from 54 percent in 1996 to 78 percent in
2001, which was higher than the national average of 66 percent during the same period. This
could be a result of joint-efforts as some of the CEF districts were also being supported by other
projects such as the District Based Support Project (DBSPE) financed by various Donors, and
NGOs with similar objectives of increasing enrollment and improving quality.


                               Table 3: Net Enrolment Ratio (NER)

                            1996        1997          1998         1999         2000    2001
        CEF Districts        54%        49%           52%          57%          66%     78%
        National             56%        57%           57%          57%          59%     66%
            Sources: HRDP data, Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania (Various years)



Impact on Student Learning Outcomes. CEF schools showed some improvement in learning
outcomes measured by the national results of Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE) used



                                                  - 8 -

for selecting primary school graduates for secondary education enrolment. The performance of
the CEF schools was similar to the national average at the onset of its implementation. Within
three years, pass rates for CEF districts improved from 21 percent to 35 percent, while the
national average rose from 21 percent to 29 percent (Table 4). However, there were some
variations among the 16 CEF districts although the overall trend was upwards.


                         Table 4. Results of PSLE - CEF Districts vs National
                                                             Pass rates              Change
                                                         1998            2001
                  CEF Districts                          21%              35%          14%
                  National                               21%              29%           8%
 Source: PSG file data, 2003 and Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania, MOEC, and various years


Impact of GSES Program. GSES provided scholarships to 4,759 girls from poor families to
study in secondary schools between 1996 when the first scholarships started to be awarded
(pre-test period) to 2001 when the program ceased enrolling new girls. This presented about four
percent of all (133,912) girls enrolled in secondary schools in the country in 2001. The program
covered nearly all expenses for the scholarship beneficiaries in "O Level" (Form I-IV), and "A
Level" (Form V and VI). The GSES girls were selected based on their academic qualifications
and from families that cannot afford secondary education expenses. The selection process started
with the headteacher and school committees. Together they ranked a list of six girls who best met
these criteria. The list was then narrowed down to three by the village council in an open meeting.
The short list of three candidates was sent to the district selection committee which would make
the final selection guided by the criteria and assigning the girls to relevant schools. The selection
procedures improved over years with community participation.

The Sample Survey data (2003) for GSES shows that the academic performance of the GSES
girls was similar to the non-GSES girls. Performance of GSES girls at A Level was also in line
with the national trend. In 2003, seventeen GSES girls sat for Form VI national examinations,
five girls scored first class, six second class, and six third class. A total of 27 girls were enrolled at
University level by 2005 financed through the higher education student loan.

Based on data provided by the PIU, completion rate of GSES girls improved as the dropout rate
fell from 4.1 percent in 1998 to 1.2 percent by 2004. This could be a result of intensive
counseling and guidance provided by the project staff to the girls during field visits. The dropout
pattern for the GSES girls was similar to the non-GSES girls. The leading cause was pregnancy
followed by failing Form II exams. PIU data shows that a total of 373 girls became pregnant
between 1998-2004. To address the pregnancy issue, the girls need to be given moral counseling
sessions and hostel facilities.

Enhanced Capacities at School, Community, District and Central Levels. The project helped
to build capacity for CEF and GSES implementation in communities and districts through short
seminars carried out at these different levels. The training targeted school committees,
head-teachers, Ward Education Coordinators and district education staff. It covered 1,640



                                                      - 9 -

schools in 16 districts. These training activities were an important fact of the success for CEF
and GSES programs. With the strengthened capacity and new skills learned, the CEF schools
were able to manage school funds including operating school bank account more systematically
than before. These training activities also raised the visibility of education within communities.

Support to Education Sector Policy Formulation. The project provided financial support to
some of the analytical work initiated jointly by the Government, the Bank and other Development
Partners for preparing the PEDP and the Secondary Education Development Program (SEDP).
This included financing of the Education Sector Status Report which was used in formulating the
PEDP. The project also financed consultancy services for designing the Quality Improvement
Strategy for the PEDP implementation.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component I ­ Community Education Fund (CEF)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The project implementation covered seven years (from February 1998 to December 2005). But
the piloting for CEF component was completed in 2001 instead of 2000. Implementation of the
GSES component continued until 2005 as it needed more time to ensure girls complete their O
and A level cycles.

The CEF component was successful in piloting and building local capacity in the key areas of
school-based management. It contributed to improvement of governance at school levels through
management of school funds and formulation and implementation of school plans. The CEF
covered 1,642 schools benefiting nearly 700,000 pupils in 16 districts.

On the financial aspects, CEF helped to raise school level financial resources to carry out school
plans developed by the respective communities. The Impact Evaluation Study (2003) for HRDP
shows that financial resources at school level, on average, raised four times, compared with
non-CEF schools. The increase resulted from contributions made by parents, communities, and
the matching grants from the government. By 2001 the average amount of financial resources
made available to CEF schools was about Tsh. 8,293 (about US$8) per student. Comparatively,
it was only Tsh. 2,366 (approximately US$.2) in non-CEF schools which were contributed as
school fees. The fees amount however, excluded other contributions by parents in the non-CEF
schools. The increased financing in CEF schools in 2001, could have resulted from additional
funds disbursed by the Government to every public primary school in the country during the
second half of the year (July-December 2001) as compensation for the abolished school fees to
achieve Universal Primary Education (UPE). Abolition of school fees amounting to Tsh. 2000 per
pupil per year became effective in July 2001. Therefore, the Government had to disburse Tshs.
1000 per school per child as compensation of school fees for the period of July 2001-December
2001. This was part of the PEDP implementation launched by the Government in 2001.
Contributions for matching grants from parents/communities were no longer compulsory as all
primary schools received capitation and development grants through the PEDP.

Given the importance of quality and equitable education for all, it became apparent at the time of
the PEDP design that compulsory community and parental financial contributions would not be


                                                 - 10 -

the basis for disbursing government grants to schools. Assessments were conducted involving
different stakeholders including NGOs, before the PEDP was designed. The results showed that
many parents could not afford paying school fees and other contributions needed in primary
education. The matching concept was, therefore, not adopted in the PEDP design. Instead, the
government adopted a policy for provision of development and capitation grants to all public
schools to ensure increased resources at school level to achieve equitable access and quality
completion of primary education. Disbursements of capitation grants to all public schools and
development grants to needy schools (based on construction requirements or supply of furniture)
are now an adopted national policy. All grants are deposited to school bank accounts of public
primary schools and these funds are managed by the respective school committee. Although the
concept of matching grants is no longer being implemented, the CEF's concept of increasing
non-salary financial resources at school levels managed by communities was adapted in designing
the PEDP.

CEF contributed to improvement of learning environment. At the time the project was designed,
many school buildings were dilapidated and furniture in classrooms was inadequate. Most parents
interviewed during supervision missions mentioned that dropout and irregular attendance in
communities had been caused by lack of conducive learning environment. School construction and
rehabilitation was the main priority identified by communities and included in school plans. Under
the CEF program, about 86 percent of the resources were spent for construction. A total of
1,554 new classrooms were built, 1,968 were rehabilitated, and 4,945 toilets were constructed.
Teachers' housing also improved with the additions of 420 new ones and rehabilitating 386. In
the later years of CEF, some schools shifted their priorities from classroom constructions to
teacher housing, furniture, and school supplies such as textbooks. But, resources for teaching and
learning materials were still limited. It is clear that improvement in physical school environment
alone would not result into meaningful improvement in academic performance. Other strategies
such as teacher support, availability of instructional materials are also necessary.

Component II ­ Girls' Secondary Education Support (GSES)
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
This component achieved its target as stated in the SAR, which would enroll GSES girls in
secondary schools from a baseline of 392 in 1996 to a cumulative figure of 3,415 by year 2000.
As the project expanded from five districts to sixteen, the GSES scholarship support reached
4,759 girls, which is 39 percent higher than the original target. According to the DCA, 20
percent of the GSES girls with the highest scores of O level results would be supported to attend
"A Level" secondary education. This would require an achievement of division I, II and III at the
national Form IV examination. However, the number of GSES who qualified for A level
education was lower than the indicated 20 percent. Most of the girls achieved division IV which is
the lowest pass-rate and would not be qualified to join A Level secondary education particularly
in public schools. Therefore, most GSES girls who attended A level were registered in private
schools. Given the smaller number of pupils qualifying for A level, the Government, decided to
enroll some of the girls to training institutions to help them achieve further levels of education.
Therefore, between 2000 and 2005, GSES girls who studied at A level were 668 (in public and
private schools), and about 50 girls were enrolled in vocational education and training, and 266
in teacher training institutions. This presents approximately 21 percent of all GSES girls who



                                                  - 11 -

attended A level as well as training at vocational and teacher colleges.

The responses from the villages were positive on the GSES program. It gave them special
identity and visibility within their communities. The GSES girls were model or example in the
communities for others to follow in enhancing girl's education.

The Impact Evaluation Report of HRDP (2003) also found that most of the dropouts from the
GSES were either because of failing Form II Exams or pregnancy. This pattern was similar to
non-GSES girls. GSES girls who dropped out because of pregnancy were allowed to rejoin their
scholarships if they did so within one year. Information from the PIU indicates that out of the 373
GSES girls who were interrupted between 1998 and 2004 because of pregnancy, only 191 (51
percent) rejoined school.

By the time the project closed, the last cohort of "A Level" GSES girls were still in school and
were projected to finish their study between 2005 and 2007. Since the IDA Credit closed on
December 31, 2005, the Government, through the Ministry of Finance (MOF), has confirmed to
the MOEC that GSES girls who have not finished "A Level" would be supported through the
ongoing SEDP.


Teaching Facilities were improved in some GSES schools. Science kits, computer equipment, TV
set, satellite dish, books were purchased for secondary schools where the GSES girls studied. The
schools received money through the competitive grants. These resources were provided under
the competitive school improvement program. Therefore, not all schools benefit from these
grants. Some schools never completed their school improvement plan. However, each school
received 2 percent of scholarships for overhead expenses such as administration of the
scholarship, providing a matron to take care of the girls, and an additional Tsh 30,000 a year.


Component III ­ Capacity Building
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
This component was successful in building and enhancing capacities to support school-based
management at the primary level, and school-based selection of the bursary program. The project
also helped in improving skills in the MOEC in the key areas through long-term and short-term
degree training and participating in seminars, workshops and conferences.

Capacity Building for CEF and GSES Implementation. Various reports and the Impact
Evaluation Study confirmed that the project helped to build capacity for CEF and GSES
implementation. Short seminars were carried out at different levels targeting school committees,
head-teachers, Ward Education Coordinators and district education staff. Training took place
annually for district staff. They in turn conducted training for school committees and teachers.
Besides the seminars and workshops, the project staff held sensitization courses for the CEF and
GSES practitioners. The project trained 226 district officials, 229 ward education coordinators,
127 ward education officers, 171 village education officers, 539 village chairpersons, 1,081 heads
of school, 738 school committee chairpersons, 94 councilors, 255 school committee members,
159 parents, 279 school treasurers, 174 session school heads. The schools covered were 1,640.



                                                - 12 -

The training activities were an important part of the success for CEF and GSES programs. With
the strengthened capacity and new skills learned, the CEF schools managed to operate their own
school bank accounts. For most schools this was not possible before.

Capacity Building at the Central Level. The project financed long and short term training for
MOEC staff to improve skills in the areas where there was a shortage of well trained
professionals. About 14 MOEC staff were trained at masters' degree level and some in diploma
program in the country and abroad. Most training at this level focused on various aspects of
education including education planning, policy analysis, economics of education, monitoring and
evaluation, and education finance. One of the education staff was financed to undertake PhD
studies in Building Engineering and Surveys in Edinburgh, UK. Besides these long-term training,
some staff had short-term training ranging one to two weeks including support to participate in
local and international conferences. Some of the trained staff are still working in the Ministry and
its institutions applying the skills they learned.

Capacity Building by Providing Technology. Each of the sixteen districts supported by the HRDP
was supplied with computers, printers, photocopiers, television and video recorders, cameras, and
generators. Equipment supplied to the districts helped to strengthen education data systems for
monitoring the HRDP implementation. Motorcycles, bicycles and boat engine (for Kigoma) were
also supplied to district and Ward Education Offices for easy transportation during monitoring of
the HRDP activities.

Component IV ­ Policy Development, Planning, and Research
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
This project helped strengthening policy development, planning, and research in the education
sector through improving testing and statistics systems, operations research, policy studies, and
strategic sector development plans.

Strengthening of the Statistics Unit of the MOEC. The project helped the unit to improve its
education management information system (EMIS) by providing computers, software, related
accessories, system installation and training of staff. Other donors also provided equipment for
EMIS unit in the MOEC. With the improved capacity, the unit has been able to improve the
efficiency of data processing and produce the annual national and regional basic education
statistics in a timely fashion. However, data at district level was not easily available, which
contains scanned raw data on aspects such as enrollments, teaching staff, teaching materials,
vacancies, dropout students, and infrastructure. This information would be useful for identifying
weak areas at district and school levels, and formulating policies to target them. But the data was
not processed. Thus, the usefulness of these valuable data was diminished. Another observation
by the Impact Evaluation Report was that statistics unit's focus or interest was more on inputs
(i.e. equipment, computers) than the use of technology for informed policy decisions.

Capacity Building at the National Examination Council (NECTA). The project supported
NECTA in mechanizing national examination system in using modern scanning and computer
technology by providing computers, printers, software, LAN installation and scanners. Training
was conducted on how to use scanning technology. The enhancement has improved the efficiency



                                                  - 13 -

of data processing and quality of data. It cut the waiting time of releasing examination results
caused by slow score marking procedures. The PSLE process was computerized by using
scanning technology. This has helped to disseminate examination results to the public more
efficiently. The improvement was achieved through the equipment provided by the HRDP and
support by other development Donors and the Government.

Although progress has been made in release of examination results, NECTA needs to improve
several weak areas. For example, (i) it lacks an examination item bank. Each year, new
examination questions have to be developed, rather than random or strategic selection from a pool
of items in an item bank. (ii) Publications of examination results are not user friendly. Results are
still given out in letter grades in bulky volumes, with some computational error. There is no
analysis of the results, which could be useful for policy directions and change of examinations.
(iii) System connectivity between NECTA and MOEC has not yet been installed. The
consultancy report (ESAMI 1998) had recommended for this action. To establish comparable
systems between the two institutions would have promoted information sharing, analysis of
examination results for policy formulation, decision making. This would enhance efficiency by
saving time and resources.

Policy Studies and Operational Research. The project financed a number of analytical work for
future operations including preparing and developing the PEDP and SEDP. These included the
Quality Enhancement Design for the PEDP; The Education Sector Status Report, and the Master
Plans for primary, secondary and teacher education. Other support included redesigning of data
capture instruments for scanning for NECTA and the Statistics Unit.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

ICR Rating: Substantial
The institutional development impact of HRDP is rated Substantial. The project has contributed
to institutional development in the education sector, though more improvement is still needed in
some key areas. The professional training under the project has enhanced capacity in the MOEC
in education planning, policy analysis, economics of education, monitoring and evaluation,
education finance, data processing and statistics.

The School-based management approach has enhanced local institutional capacity at district,
community and school levels. At the community level, all 1,642 school committees were trained
in participatory planning, financial management, and school planning. The skills and knowledge
gained have had positive impact. Evidence of the achievements was the opening and operating
school bank accounts and preparation of school action plans. These have strengthened the culture
of ownership and raised responsibility by the school committees in monitoring school activities.


                                                - 14 -

These capacities are being used in the primary and secondary education implementation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

No major negative outside factors affected implementation and outcome for HRDP.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The project had a slow start, especially for CEF and GSES, which were the two core components
targeting the poor. Several factors caused the delay as follows: (i) the Project Staff were not
fully settled into the office in the MOEC at that time and needed time to familiarize themselves
with the project design, (ii) at the beginning of the project, the community response to participate
in the project was slow and unsure if the CEF and GSES would benefit them, but later the
situation improved as results started to show, (iii) there were coordination and conflicting
messages among development partners at local, and district levels in cases where approaches to
manage financial resources and community initiatives differed. At the Ministry level there was also
insufficient coordination with similar projects supported by different donors resulting in
duplication of efforts. The situation changed in 2001 when most projects came to an end
following the launching of the PEDP with strong coordination of the sector under the Education
Sector Development Program framework.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Regarding selection of girls to benefit from the scholarships, there were instances where the head
teacher of primary schools or district staff did the selection on their own without involving the
communities to determine the girls from poor households who should benefit. This problem was
observed during the pretest and beginning of the pilot. The situation improved over the years
through community sensitization. The Project staff could have made more effort to reinforce
public awareness from the beginning and dissemination of information at all levels including the
media.

Selection process of GSES girls to join A Level in private schools was performed at the PIU
linking with the respective private schools. GSES girls were participating in both public and
private schools and there are no procedures in the Government for selecting students to private
schools. Some GSES girls selected to A Level private schools had low qualifications at the level
of division four. The project staff could have avoided this situation by adhering to the policy that
only qualifying girls with highest scores be selected. If regulations were followed, there would be
less girls attending A level in private schools, instead, they would be selected to join Government
secondary schools which admit only students with high scores mostly in division I and II and a
few in division III. The PIU indicated that there were no enough girls to choose from Division I
and II. Because these girls come from poor families, and attended poor quality schools, their
performance at Division III and IV reflected the reality. To avoid wasting the quota (20 percent
of the GSES girls with highest scores), the MOEC and PIU decided to choose some GSES girls
to enter A level with academic performance in Division III and IV. Some were enrolled in
vocational and teacher training institutions.



                                                     - 15 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

Overall, the financial outcome of project costs and disbursements were satisfactory. At appraisal,
the total project costs were estimated at US$24.02 million equivalent, out of which US$20.9
million was to be financed by IDA (87 percent), and US$3.16 million (13 percent) financed by the
Government. At the time of this ICR, 98 percent (SDR14.63 million) of IDA funds were
disbursed. The actual Government contribution to this project amounted to US$4.37 million
(13.8 percent of the original estimate) most of which was contributed by communities for the
matching grants. This was due to the expansion of CEF from original 5 districts to 16. Overall,
the actual cost for each component was close to the appraisal estimate. The actual financing for
each component was also close to the original plan.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

ICR Rating: Likely
It is likely that the achievements reached during the project implementation will be maintained for
the following reasons:

(a) Availability of financial resources at school levels is sustainable as the Tanzania Government
abolished school fees and other levies for primary education in order to achieve Universal Primary
Education (UPE) since 2001. Through the PEDP, funds for capitation and development grants are
disbursed to all public schools. Therefore, communities and parents are no longer contributing
for matching grants.

(b) The project has created empowerment and enthusiasm within the communities to support
school development. The communities are conscious of their role as owners of the schools and
are ready to participate in school affairs.

(c) The CEF pilot has demonstrated that, with capacity building and creation of ownership,
communities are capable of planning and managing school funds appropriately. To continue using
these capacities would depend on whether they have reasons for doing so. To make these
developments sustainable, several key elements are needed as follows:

l The project should be properly implemented; community-level capacity building should be the
    key priority of project activity. Involve different stakeholders in the process such as NGOs.
    Strengthening partnerships among these stakeholders and local education authorities could be
    an important prerequisite of such success.

l The overall institutional framework for the delivery of education should be based on
    empowering the communities to participate in aspects of educational management. Fiscal
    flows should permit allocating public funding for use by the communities as demonstrated by
    the PEDP, and there should be an effective financial infrastructure to process funds and ensure
    they are disbursed to schools.



                                                 - 16 -

l It is essential that the CEF scheme be implemented through the exiting public institutions of
    educational management, including the Ministry of Education, district and local authorities.
    This needs significant reforms in the way these authorities operate. Therefore, any CEF
    undertaking should pay close attention to capacity building at all levels and appropriate
    decentralized structure.

l Provision of scholarship to qualifying boys and girls from poor households was integrated in
    the SEDP design with the aim of expanding access of secondary education equitably. The
    SEDP became effective on September 30, 2005.

l The GSES has helped to change community perceptions and attitudes to girls' education.
    Capacity established by the project has been sustained at community and school levels.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project had a Project Implementation Unit support group, consisting of staff from the MOEC
and other organizations. The implementation was carried out through the exiting systems and
administrative structure at the school, community, district and central levels. Capacity built at
these levels remained and was further enhanced through implementation of the PEDP, and SEDP
which are jointly supported by the Government, the Bank and other Development Partners. At
the central level, the project financed training had a positive impact on capacity building. Some of
the project staff/consultants are still working at the Ministry.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank's performance during preparation is Satisfactory. The Bank team engaged fruitful
dialogue with the Government, other Development Partners and NGOs to jointly define the
project objectives and actions to achieve them. The project design was consistent with the
Country Strategies and responded to priorities in the education sector. CEF and GSES
mechanism were pretested, and lessons learned from the pretest were incorporated into the
project design. The planning of CEF started in 1995 with pretests of the design and consultations
with beneficiaries over a two-year period. The Bank team's good performance during project
preparation was confirmed by the World Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG).

7.2 Supervision:


ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Bank supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank worked closely with the Borrower and had
never lost sight of the big picture of assisting the Government to develop education strategies and
to pilot test demand-side financing innovations in education grants to schools and scholarships for
girls. The Bank maintained the emphasis on drawing lessons from the HRDP and focus on impact
evaluation. This strategy has been successful in informing the design of future operations.



                                                  - 17 -

QAG assessed the quality of supervision of this project in 2004 and rated it Satisfactory (Table 5)

              Table 5. QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment Ratings for HRDP

         Quality Dimension                                                    Rating

         Overall Rating                                                      Satisfactory
         1. Focus on Development Effectiveness                               Satisfactory
         2. Supervision of Fiduciary / Safeguard Aspects                     Satisfactory
         3. Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Process                       Satisfactory

         4. Candor and Quality of Project Performance Ratings                Satisfactory
         Sources: QAG file, World Bank, 2004



Although there were frequent changes of Bank TTLs between the Project identification and up to
the closing of the Credit, there was no evidence that these changes had impact on the project
implementation as the transitions were handled with continuous and consistent support to the
project. Although these changes might have been operationally unavoidable, they could have
caused inconveniencies to the Borrower.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


Based on the factors described above, the overall Bank performance is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Borrower's performance during the preparation phase is rated Satisfactory. The Government and
other actors involved in the preparation phase collaborated with the Bank to define the project.
They provided background studies, which were useful in guiding the project design and focusing
on the long-term education policy in the country. The MOEC actively participated in the
pretesting for CEF and GSES programs, which was financed by another Bank education project
at the time (The Education Planning and Rehabilitation Project -Credit 2137-TA).

7.5 Government implementation performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Overall Government implementation performance is rated Satisfactory. The high commitment
that was demonstrated during the preparation phase was maintained by the authorities at the
Government central ministries, Regions and Districts. The project benefited from a consistent
Government political commitment and support during the entire project cycle.



7.6 Implementing Agency:



                                                 - 18 -

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The Implementing Agency's performance is rated Satisfactory. The MOEC showed strong
commitment throughout project implementation. The project had a slow start, but after the
Mid-Term Review its implementation improved considerably. Even with the project expansion,
the Project Unit made regular visits to the districts and schools to assist and guide the
implementation process. Audit reports were carried out on time. Disbursements were regular and
the flow of funds was as planed.

However, there were weaknesses in record keeping. Procurement documentation took a long
time to be processed as information provided to IDA for clearance sometimes did not have
enough supporting information.

A close monitoring and assessment of GSES girls' development in academic and career track
could have been useful for scaling up of scholarship programs. There is opportunity to undertake
this assessment in the SEDP implementation.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Based on the factors described above, the overall Borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


On CEF

   l Adapting flexibility in the process of project implementation is sometimes necessary.
        During the CEF implementation it was found that communities which were relatively
        better off economically contributed more and received more matching funds than weaker
        communities. In order to enhance equity, the matching ratio was adjusted during the
        project Mid-term review. The weak communities received a matching of 1:2 or 1:3 rather
        than the 1:1.

   l CEF project should be regarded as a reform to enhance capacity for school-level
        management and accountability and not merely as a mechanism for allocating funding for
        non-salary expenditures at the school level.

   l Continuous community sensitization, training and support during the project
        implementation are needed to enhance active participation of different stakeholders for
        improved school management. Efforts need to be made to enhance local community
        initiatives to identify and rank their own priorities in school development even when
        funding is provided directly by the Government. Flexibility and provision of additional
        technical support to weak and poor communities is important. It is clear that some of the
        communities-due to geographical spread, institutional or socioeconomic factors
        (poverty)-will not be able to consolidate their efforts and come up with prioritized school
        development plans and generate the needed contributions to be matched by CEF funds.




                                                 - 19 -

    l The CEF funds allocated for quality improvement were small. The reason was that schools
         were free to choose what items to include in their plans so interventions varied greatly.
         The lessons learned showed that earmarking specific financial allocations for quality
         improvements such as teaching and learning materials is important. Otherwise,
         communities and schools would choose spending funds on construction (86% on
         construction) than quality improvement. The Government has now introduced capitation
         grant for primary and secondary education, used specifically for quality improvement.
         This lesson could be useful for other countries that are implementing or planning to do
         similar interventions.

On GSES

It is difficult to find girls who are qualified to attend secondary school from the lowest
socio-economic strata. If scholarship schemes and programs are to help them, then the focus
should be on improving the quality of their primary education.

    l On GSES girls selection, a process that relies on head teachers and the village council in a
         transparent setting, while far from perfect, is likely to be better than having the selection
         made by an external agency with no personal knowledge of the people being considered.
         A combination of selection methods for scholarships that would include the village level
         processes with oversight by a committee of peers would be appropriate.

    l Scaling up girls scholarship program should be phased in slowly. To ensure the success of
         this program, the following two conditions are needed: (i) schools have counseling
         services, and (ii) girls are housed in a hostel or boarding schools. Otherwise, dropout rate
         could well rise to uncomfortable levels.

On Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
    l Project design should always pay attention to M&E aspects. Although the SAR designed a
         logic framework, it did not set clear expected outcome indicators. In some cases, the
         indicators for measuring progress toward achieving these outcomes were imprecise.
         Some of the indicators had no baseline data. As a result some basic data was not
         collected. This prevented proper systematic analysis to be carried out to measure
         implementation progress, and caused difficulties in monitoring and assessment of project
         progress and impact, as well as targeting poor communities and households for matching
         grants and scholarships provision in accordance with income levels.

On Capacity Building

    l Project design should consider using local system as much as possible. At the time the
         project was designed, Tanzania was already implementing a decentralized policy under the
         Local Government Authorities. Although implementation of the decentralization was in its
         initial stages, there was no attempt to link implementation with local authority institutions
         in a systematic way. Instead, a lot of responsibilities were left at the level of the PIU with
         limited linkage to the MOEC units, Region and Districts. Officials at the district level who
         were appointed as part time coordinators were accountable to the PIU than the district



                                                   - 20 -

        authorities. This denied the opportunity to test the capacity of local authorities to support
        the project more strategically. It also prevented the use of institutional resources at the
        local level to support project implementation which could have enhanced the impact of the
        pilot as was demonstrated in the PEDP. The PIU was therefore, over stretched and
        provided less than optimum supervision overall. This resulted into high operational and
        transaction costs.

    l Training should be focused on fewer and key skills. Tremendous efforts were made to
        train many stakeholders in short and long term courses at all levels of the project
        implementation. This has built enormous capacity. However, more focus on fewer skills
        could have enhanced great effectiveness of the training.

On Donor Coordination and Harmonization
    l Coordination and harmonization among donors, NGOs and local authorities are important
        factors for project success. In the earlier years of project implementation, there were
        coordination problems resulting from conflicting messages among development partners at
        local and district levels in cases where approaches to manage financial resources and
        community initiatives differed. At the Ministry level there was no coordination with
        similar projects such as the District Based Support Program (DBSPE) supported by
        different donors. Therefore, in some places there was duplication. The situation changed
        in 2001 when most projects came to an end following the launching of the PEDP with
        strong coordination of the sector under the Education Sector Development Program
        framework.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The Government prepared an Evaluation Report, assessing the impact and the implementation of
the project, from the Borrower's perspective. The report is in Annex 8. In addition the
Government has provided comments on the Bank's ICR as indicated below.




                                                 - 21 -

- 22 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no co-financiers in for this project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable

10. Additional Information

None




                                                - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

A. Outcome / Impact Indicators
   Outcome / Impact                   Baseline                      Target             Actual/Latest Estimate
       Indicators

1. Increased primary                 54% in 1996          The SAR did not set a       The ratio increased to
school net enrolment                                      specific target             78% in 2001
ratio in CEF Districts

2. Improved academic                                                                  Quality in CEF schools
performance in CEF           PSLE pass rate in 1996      The SAR did not set a        improved compared to
schools, measured by         was 20% in the CEF          specific target              several years ago.
passing rate in Primary      districts                                                PSLE pass rate Improved
Education Leaving                                                                     to 35% in 2001
Examination (PSLE)

3. Increased resources at
primary school level         Not available               500                          Achieved and exceeded
measured by # of                                                                      1,642
matching grants provide
to primary schools

4. Improved parental and Only two districts were
community involvement         piloted in matching        6 districts                   Achieved and exceeded
in school management          grants and school-based                                 16 districts
and accountability            management at the
                              beginning of project

5. Increased girl
enrolment ratio in lower 5% in 1996                      The SAR did not set a        Rose to 15% in 2005
secondary schools in the                                 specific target
GSES districts

6. Strengthened Policy                                   Carrying out analytical
Development and              A limited analytical work work and dissemination forAchieved
Research                     was done in this area.      PEDP, SEDP and other
                                                         studies in Education at
                                                         different periods.

7. Strengthened              Weak capacity in            Reliable and on time         Achieved
technology capacity in       processing and printing     printing and disseminating
operation and production examination results             examination results
of annual student
examinations in NECTA
This table is constructed based on data in the SAR pages 9-15, 58-59, 71-79; Project Annual Reports, the Final
Impact Evaluation of the HRDP, and Basic Education Statistics, Various years, MOEC.




                                                      - 24 -

B. Output Indicators

Output Indicator                      Baseline                     Target                   Actual Output
                                    in year 1996

1. Provision of bursary                                                               Achieved and exceeded
for secondary education                  392                       3,415              4,759
to girls from poor family

2. Capacity building in
communities by training           Limited training       Training covers 5 districts Achieved and exceeded
teachers, administrators,                                                             16 districts were covered
parents, and district
officers

3. Capacity building in                                                               Achieved
MOEC through training                                                                 14 finished masters
10 staff in education               Not available          10 MOEC staff receive degree, 1 received Ph.D,
finance, research,                                          post graduate training    and 9 trained in diploma
management, education                                                                 program
statistics, and
examinations.

4. # of research studies            Not available                     11              Achieved
and monitoring surveys
carried out

5. Strengthened
technology capacity by           Lack of adequate        Provide scanners, servers,    Achieved
providing fast, higher               equipment           software, computers,
quality and more reliable                                printers and other
national examination                                     equipment
system in NECTA.
This table is constructed based on data in the SAR pages 9-15, 58-59, 71-79; Project Annual Reports, the Final
Impact Evaluation of the HRDP, and Basic Education Statistics, Various years, MOEC.




                                                      - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                       Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest
                    Component                              US$ million              Estimate        Percentage of
                                                                                  US$ million          Appraisal
1. Community Education Fund                                    8.17                    8.17              100
2. Girls' Secondary Education Support                          6.93                    6.93              100
3. Capacity Building                                           2.22                    2.22              100
4. Policy Development, Planning, and Research                  4.49                    4.49              100
Total Base Cost                                                21.81                  21.81              100
Total Project Costs                                            24.02                  24.02              100
Total Financing Required                                       20.9                    20.9              100




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                  Expenditure Category                           ICB          NCB           Other       Total Cost

1. Consultancy Services                                                                      4.39         4.39
                                                                                            (4.39)       (4.39)
2. Goods                                                         2.58         0.48           0.31         3.37
                                                                (2.58)       (0.48)         (0.31)       (3.37)
3. Training                                                                                  0.25         0.25
                                                                                            (0.25)       (0.25)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                                                               0.33         0.33
                                                                                            (0.33)       (0.33)
5. Community Education Fund                                                                  8.57         8.57
                                                                                            (5.41)       (5.41)
6. Girls' Secondary Education Scholarship                                                    5.91         5.91
                                                                                            (5.91)       (5.91)
7. Refunding of the Project Preparation Advance (PPF)                                        1.20         1.20
                                                                                            (1.20)       (1.20)
   Total                                                         2.58         0.48          20.97         24.02
                                                                (2.58)       (0.48)         (17.8)       (20.9)
Source: Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) page 21

Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

Note:    ICB:    International Competitive Bidding

         NCB:    National Competitive Bidding

         Other:   Other methods include consultant contracts following the rules for hiring consultants,
                 community-based procurement following the Operational Guidelines, and international and
                 national shopping.




                                                      - 26 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                  Expenditure Category                             ICB           NCB         Other       Total Cost

1. Consultancy Services                                                                      2.37             2.37
                                                                                             (2.37)         (2.37)
2. Goods                                                           2.31          0.48        0.31             3.10
                                                                  (2.31)        (0.48)       (0.31)         (3.10)
3. Training                                                                                  1.25             1.25
                                                                                             (1.25)         (1.25)
4. Incremental Operating Costs                                                                 1.8            1.8
                                                                                             (1.8)           (1.8)
5. Community Education Fund                                                                  9.61             9.61
                                                                                             (5.24)         (5.24)
6. Girls' Secondary Education Scholarship                                                    6.60             6.60
                                                                                             (6.60)         (6.60)
7. Refunding of the Project Preparation Advance (PPF)                                        0.62             0.62
                                                                                             (0.62)         (0.62)
   Total                                                           2.31          0.48        22.66           25.45
                                                                  (2.31)        (0.48)      (18.29)         (21.08)


Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                Component                         Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                                Estimate             Appraisal
                                                  IDA     Govt.   CoF.      IDA Govt. CoF.      IDA     Govt. CoF.
1. Community Education Fund                       5.01    3.16              5.24  4.37         103% 138%

2. Girls' Secondary Education Support             6.93                      6.93               100%

3. Capacity Building                              2.22                      2.22               100%

4. Policy Development, Planning, and              4.49                      4.49               100%
Research

Contingencies for price (4 percent)               0.54                      0.54               100%

Contingencies for contribution (5 percent)        0.24                      0.24               100%

Contingencies for enrollments (5 percent)         0.24                      0.24               100%

Refund of PPF                                     1.20                      1.20               100%

  Total                                           20.9    3.16             21.08  4.37         103% 138%
There was no co-financing for this project.

Note: IDA credit disbursement data is as of April 13,2006. The difference of total in US$ between appraisal
estimate and actual/latest estimate is due to the exchange rate. The total IDA credit in XDR15 million is the same
between appraisal and actual.




                                                        - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable.




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              03/1995                 11     MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                             OPERATIONS 2;
                                             LEGAL 1;
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALISTS 5
                                             TEAM ASSISTANT 1

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/ 17, 1997                                                    S               S

 Supervision

              05/14/1998                6    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             CLUSTER LEADER (1);
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (2);
                                             OPER. ANALYST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              02/12/1999                6    SR. EDUCATION PLANNER            S               S
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SR. OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER (1); FIN. MGNT.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENTS
                                             ASSIST. (1)
              04/29/1999                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1)
              10/04/2000                9    OPERATIONS OFFICE, TTL           S               S
                                             (1); SR. HD SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2); ED.
                                             SPECIALIST (1); FIN.
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                             INFO ANALYST (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              12/18/2001                3    TEAM LEADER-OP OFFICER           HS              S
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                             ASSISTANT (1)
              10/11/2002                6    TTL/SR.EDUC.SPECIALIST           HS              S
                                             (1); EDUCATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SR. EDUCATION
                                             PLANNER (1);



                                              - 29 -

                                                     DISBURSEMENTS ASSIST.
                                                     (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                     SPECIALIST (1);
                                                     EVALUATION SPEC.(CONSU
                                                     (1)
               06/27/2003                      6     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  HS              S
                                                     PROCUREMENT (1);
                                                     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                     (1); DISBURSEMENT (1);
                                                     EVALUATION (1); EARLY
                                                     CHILDHOOD DEVELO (1)
               11/05/2004                      4     PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST                 HS              S
                                                     (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                                     ASSISTANT (1); FM
                                                     CONSULTANT (1);
                                                     EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
               05/04/2005                      4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                  HS              S
                                                     PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                     (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                                     ASSISTANT
                                                     (1);CONSULTANT (1)
               11/11/2005                      4     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                   S              S
                                                     PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                                     (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                                     ASSISTANT
                                                     (1);CONSULTANT (1)

 ICR
               02/02/2006                      1      OPERATIONS OFFICER                     S              S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      n.a.                       550.543
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           n.a.                       255.349
  Supervision                                     n.a.                       658.281
  ICR                                               7                         13.000
  Total                                           n.a.                     1,477.173


This table is based on the information currently available in the World Bank's SAP. The figures for
identification / preparation and appraisal / negotiation are an estimate. The total costs for supervision and
ICR are actual as of March 23, 2006.




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


"Evaluation of the Impact of the Human Resources Development Project in Tanzania", Final
Report, Issa M. Omari, Deograsias P. Mushi, and Natu E. Mwamba, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania,
December 2003

"Impact Evaluation Report for The Girls Secondary Education Support Scholarships", by
consultants in Tanzania, 2003

"Education Sector Country Status Report for Tanzania", World Bank and the Government of the
united Republic of Tanzania, February, 2001

"Tanzania: Community Education", Findings, World Bank, Vol. 180, April 2001

"An Impact Evaluation of the Tanzania Community Education Fund and the Girls Secondary
Education Support Program", Ronald G. Ridker, November 2003.

Quality at Entry Assessment Report for Tanzania Human Resources Development Project, Quality
Assurance Group, World Bank, 1999

Quality of Supervision Assessment Report for Tanzania Human Resources Development Project,
Quality Assurance Group, World Bank, 2004

"Project Implementation Plan for Tanzania Human Resources Development Project", Ministry of
Education and Culture, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, December 1997

"Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania 1995-2005 ­ National Data", the Ministry of Education
and Culture, June 2005

"Basic Education Statistics in Tanzania 1995-2005 ­ Regional Data", the Ministry of Education
and Culture, September 2005

"Management Audit Report on the Financial Statements of the Tanzania Human Resources
Development Pilot Project for the Year Ended June 30th, 2004, Office of the Controller and Auditor
General, National Audit Office, November 2004

"Management Audit Report on the Financial Statements of the Tanzania Human Resources
Development Pilot Project for the Year Ended June 30th, 2003, Office of the Controller and Auditor
General, National Audit Office, December 2003

"Annual Work Plan 2000/2001 for Human Resources Development Projects", Ministry of
Education and Culture, Tanzania, 2000

"Annual Work Plan 2002 for Human Resources Development Projects", Ministry of Education and
Culture, Tanzania, 2002


                                               - 33 -

"Project Implementation Statistical Data for the Year 2001", Ministry of Education and Culture,
Department of Policy and Planning, HRDP Project Support Group, Dar es Salaam 2002

"Mid-Year Report 2001 for Human Resource Development Project", Ministry of Education and
Culture, Department of Policy and Planning, HRDP Project Support Group, July 2001

"Project Status Report as of July 2002", Ministry of Education and Culture, Tanzania, 2002

"End of Year Report for Human Resources Development Project-2001", Ministry of Education and
Culture, Department of Policy and Planning, HRDP Project Support Group, Dar es Salaam, March
2002

"Project Annual Report for Human Resources Development Project-2000", Ministry of Education
and Culture, Department of Policy and Planning, HRDP Project Support Group, Dar es Salaam,
January 2001

"Project Annual Report for Human Resources Development Project-1999", Ministry of Education
and Culture, Department of Policy and Planning, HRDP Project Support Group, Dar es Salaam,
December 1999

"Project Annual Report for Human Resources Development Project-1998", Ministry of Education
and Culture, Department of Policy and Planning, HRDP Project Support Group, Dar es Salaam,
December 1998

"Report of GSES Pilot Pretest and Pre-Luanch Preparations ­ Coast, Morogoro and Lindi
Regions", merit International, LTD, Education and Agri-Business Consultants, Kibaha, April 1997

"A Workshop for Developing Gender Action Plans for Secondary Schools", Insurance Training
Center, Mikocheni, Dar es Salaam, July 1999

"Education and Training Policy", the Ministry of Education and Culture, Tanzania, February 1995

"Staff Appraisal Report ­Tanzania Human Resources Development Project", World Bank, August
1997

"Development Credit Agreement - Human Resources Development Project", World Bank, October
29, 1997

Various Project Status Reports (Implementation Status Report), World Bank, 1999-2005

Various Aide-Memoires, Back-to-office Reports for PEDP during preparation and supervision,
   World Bank, 1997-005




                                                 - 34 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR




                                     - 35 -

       Appraisal year USD =Tsh. 600
      Completion year USD = Tsh. 1004
     ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

EMP      :        Basic Education Master Plan
BEST     :        Basic Statistic in Education
CEF      :        Community Education Fund
DED      :        District Executive Director
DEO      :        District Education Officer
EMIS     :        Education Management Information System
ESCC     :        Education Sector Coordinating Committee
ESDP     :        Education Sector Development Programme
ETP      :        Education and Training Policy (1995)
FY       :        Fiscal Year
GER      :        Gross Enrolment Ratio
GSES     :        Girls Secondary Education Support
HRDP     :        Human Resource Development Pilot Project
ICB      :        International Competitive Bidding
IDA      :        International Development Association
IRR      :        International Rate of Return
M&E      :        Monitoring and Evaluation
MOEC     :        Ministry of Education and Culture
MOU      :        Memorandum of Understanding
NCB      :        National Competitive Bidding
NECTA    :        National Examination Council of Tanzania
NER      :        Net Enrolment Ratio
NGO      :        Non-government Organization
NIF      :        Not financed by IDA Credit
DP       :        Project Director
PEDP     :        Primary Education Development Program
PMO      :        Project Management Office
PPF      :        Project Preparation Facility
PS       :        Permanent secretary
PSG      :        Pilot Support Group
PSLE     :        Primary School Leaving Exam
SA       :        Special Account
SAR      :        Staff Appraisal Report
SOE      :        Statement of Account
SSS      :        Social Sector Strategy
TASAF    :        Tanzania Social Action Fund
TC       :        Teachers' College
TOR      :        Terms of Reference
TSH      :        Tanzania Shillings
TTL      :        Task Team Leader
UDSM     :        University of Dar es Salaam
VETA     :        Vocational Education Training Authority
WEC      :        Ward Education Coordinator




                   - 36 -

                         TABLE OF CONTENTS
                         Introduction: ...................................................................................1
Project formulation and ProjectBackground........................................................ .....1
THE PROJECT.............................................................................................2
          Project objectives.................................................................................2
OJECT DESCRIPTION AND DESIGN                                                                                                            2
        Community Education Fund (CEF)                                                                                                  3
        Girls Secondary Education Support (GSES)                                                                                        4
        Capacity Building                                                                                                               4
         Policy Development, Planning and Research...................................................5
IMPMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS                                                                                                     5
        The Community Education Fund                                                                                                    6
        Results                                                                                                                         7
        The Girls Secondary Education Support                                                                                           8
        Results                                                                                                                         9
        Capacity Building                                                                                                               10
         Results                                                                                                                        10
        Policy Development Planning and Research                                                                                        11
        Results                                                                                                                         12
REASONS FOR THE SUCCESSES                                                                                                               12
FACTORS THAT AFFECTED IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                    13
        Factors related to compliance with agreement                                                                                    13
ASSESSMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RETURNS                                                                                               14
        Overview of the Range of Benefits/Returns for the whole project                                                                 14
        Cost ­Benefit Analysis of HRDP                                                                                                  15
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                                                                                                  16
BORROWER'S and BANK PERFORMANCE                                                                                                         17
IMPORTANT OBSERVATIONS                                                                                                                  18
        Ownership, Policy Dialogue and the Role of Sectors and Local Councils                                                           18
        World Bank, Development Partnership and dialogue                                                                                18
        Participation and Institutionalisation                                                                                          19
        Budget process, and Public Financial Management and Accounting systems                                                          19
THE LESSONS LEARNT                                                                                                                      19
        OnCEF and GSES           .....................................................................................................19
        On Capacity building ................................................................................20

APPENDIX I......................................................................................................................... ..22

APPENDIX II........................................................................................................................ 25

APPENDIXIII................................................................................................28
APPENDIX IV.......................................................................................................................      29
APPENDIX V........................................................................................................................      30
APPENDIX VI.......................................................................................................................      31
APPENDIX VII.....................................................................................................................       32
APPENDIX VIII.....................................................................................................................33




                                                                - 37 -

                                        EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
                                              Background
The Human resources Development Pilot Project (HRDP) was designed to test various approaches of
tackling the challenges to the education sector then. At the primary education level, these were (i) Low
enrolments and poor quality of Primary Schooling characterized by late start, high drop out rate, low
attendance rate and low transition rates (ii)        Low spending on primary education (iii)          Lack of
accountability to parents/communities and (iv) Inadequate school level management. At the Secondary
School level, the challenge was inequitable distribution of access to education particularly of girls
characterized by low girls enrolment, low transition rates, high drop-outs especially with girls FROM poor
households.


The project was designed by the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) and funded by the World
Bank with an IDA credit of SDR 15 million (US $ 20.9 million). Total project cost was estimated at US $
24 million. The government of Tanzania contributing US $ 1.0 million and communities contributing 2.1.
million. The project became effective February 18,1998 and is scheduled to close on December 31, 2005.
The Community Education Fund           (CEF),    one of its two major components, plus two supporting
components, closed on December 31, 2001. Its other major component, the Girls Secondary Education
Support program (GSES) ceased providing new scholarships in December 2001, but will remain open
until the last girls to receive awards complete their class-work in the year 2007. Of the estimated total
project cost of US $ 24 million, approximately 63% was allocated to the major components of CEF and
GSES.

                                          Project Objectives

In line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); the overall program rationale for the project was to
efficiently increase investment in human capital, to raise incomes, reduce inequality and improve non-mark
et outcomes.
The project was meant to contribute to the CAS objectives by seeking to strengthen the borrower's
education sector in the following areas;
§        raising enrollments and quality learning outcomes of primary education through increased parental
participation and financing,
§        school based planning and management of resources, school based quality enhancement initiatives
and improved support for schools at district level;
§        expanding educational opportunities and improving quality at the secondary level, particularly for
girls from poorer households;
§        building capacity through these efforts/activities at the district and community levels and through
selective training and implementation at the central level; and
§        improving policy development, planning, and research in the education sector through
modernized testing and statistical systems, operation research, policy studies and strategic plans for basic
and secondary education.

                                             Project Design

The project design embodied all the characteristics of a Pilot Project, flexible enough to allow learning by
doing and modifications arising out of the implementation experiences and learning. The project was
envisaged that it should not harm the existing system but the lessons born out of the implementation
experience, if successful, be taken to scale and be part of the large Education Sector Development Program




                                                     - 38 -

                                   Implementation Experience

A number of key features are discussed in the ICR which characterized the implementation and results of
the four components of the Human Resource Development Project (HRDP), namely: the Community
Education Fund (CEF) Girls Secondary Education Support (GSES), Capacity Building as well as Policy
Development Planning and Research. From the various documents made available by the PSG offices
such as the Supervision Mission Aide Memoires, End of Year Evaluation Reports, Annual Work Plans,
Statistics on the HRDP Components Status Reports, Impact Evaluation Reports, and the Disbursement
Schedules, it is possible to assert that, overall, the implementation was fairly smooth and results largely
positive given the innovative nature of the project design and the project's specific objectives. Where
difficulties arose in implementing agreed objectives the close consultation and collaboration between the
Government of Tanzania and its representatives at all levels and the World Bank staff facilitated the
amicable resolution of the given difficulty.


Project supervision by Government district level personnel was adequately close and the national level Pilot
Support Group (PSG) personnel made regular visits to the districts and schools to assist and guide the
implementation process. The smooth implementation of all the components of the HRDP was facilitated by
the establishment of the HRDP Advisory Board chaired by the Chief Education Officer of the MOEC. The
Board comprised of representatives from key stakeholders including Directors from all departments of the
MOEC. Each component of the HRDP was characterized by similar or fairly similar or experimentation
experience and by largely positive results.


                                                   Results

The results of the CEF have been positive in that as of August 2002 the number of pupils in CEF schools
had reached 685,119, the number of classrooms built by these schools was 1,554 while teachers' houses
were 420 and additional pupils desks procured were 11,726. These resources were acquired by the relevant
schools through the implementation. The CEF contributed to the attainment of the HRDP goals of raising
primary school enrollment as well as improving the learning environment in the relevant primary schools.

The CEF schools did also register marked improvement in the non salary resources available to the relevant
school with per-pupils resources increasing from an average of Tshs 1,115 to Tshs 3,857.              These
improvements seem to have contributed to significant improvement in academic performance by the
relevant schools as reflected in the fact that the percentage of pupils in CEF schools scoring A to C grades
on the Primary Schooling Learning Examination (PSLE) increased from 20.9 to 35.

Although some project reviews tend to suggest that the evidence with respect to improved repetitions rates
and performance on standardized examinations was too weak and dependent on the way the analysis was
done to conclude that any differential improvement occurred in these areas! There was no sign of
deteriorating performance for the CEF sample as a whole.

GSES Enrolment and performance: a total number of 4759 girls have been enrolled in secondary
education through the GSES program between 1996 and 2001. Except for the 258 still at Form IV and a
few drop outs, the rest have completed their "O" level education out of whom 409 joined upper secondary
(A-level) education having been selected based on their attained qualifications. In addition, 50 were
selected to attend vocational education and training and 300 have joined teacher training colleges. The
majority of the girls who completed lower level secondary education passed at the level of fourth division.
This is comparable to national achievement average for this grade level. Division four is the lowest grade



                                                     - 39 -

level and pupils achieving the division do not usually get admission for A level or tertiary training.
However, those GSES girls who were able to join `A' level studies performed very well in their `A' level
national examinations, most of them achieved between division one and three and only 7 achieved division
four. Those who performed well in their "A" Level National examinations were admitted to respective
universities.

The program has helped parents and communities to raise their awareness toward supporting education for
girls. Besides the increased access, discussions held with the heads of secondary schools indicated that the
program has helped to improve the learning and teaching environment of the schools participating in the
GSES program through: (i) supplying textbooks for use by all students in the schools and not just the
GSES girls (iii) strengthening counseling on gender awareness as well as HIV/AIDS as initiated by
school-matrons of the various schools (iv) improved management and administration of schools as a result
of the funds provided to each school to help to manage the GSES program within the schools (v)
implementation of the academic and gender improvement plans on competitive basis.

Heads of schools have developed a sense of accountability and responsibility through sending to PSG
performance of GSES girls. They have also improved their accounting skills. GSES girls have been
informed about gender issues and girls' ability to understand and demand for their rights has increased.

The project worked towards "improving policy development, planning, and research in education
through ---- operations research, policy studies, and strategic plans for basic and secondary education
(WB, 1997, p.7) Prior to to the project launching in 1996, Tanzania had an Education and . Training
Policy (MOEC 1995) but did not have a national education master plan although the idea had been on the
drawing board for quite some time then. Similarly, the research and monitoring unit in the Policy and
Planning Directorate was basically non existent as it comprised of one person only. The policy intention of
the project has improved the climate through strategic interventions in policy studies and operations
research.

Several other activities were undertaken in the policy ­ planning component of the project. Altogether 22
pieces of policy studies and operations research reports are cited (see Appendix III) Most of them are of
policy relevance, such as how to deal with girls whose           studies get interrupted due to pregnancies;
secondary school selection; how to expand secondary education; and how to improve the quality of
education. These are pretty much of operations nature, supposed to energize the process of implementing
the project and ameliorate other managerial problems of the ministry as a whole. They included the
redesigning of data capture instruments so that they could be amenable to scanning capacity building
strategies in the education sector, and accounting procedures.

There was specific training for implementation of the GSES and CEF initiatives. This initiative created a
pool of trained personnel at district, school and central level, both for the implementation of project and for
long term operations of the education system.

Training opportunities were availed through extended training. The range in this category was from PH.D
level training, masters programs, diploma courses, and short training course. This resulted into acquisition
of skills beyond the immediate needs of the project (see Appendix VII)

The project generated several out reach activities ranging from one day meetings for village chair persons,
school heads and district education officials to one week seminars and workshops for council education
officers. These activities raised the visibility of education enterprise and the plight of children in poor
schools.


                                                    - 40 -

                               Factors Affecting Implementation

The core components of the project, i.e CEF and GSES targeted the poor. Initially the community response
was slow and doubting but later the community picked up the tempo as results started to show. There was
also a problem of donor/development partners' coordination at local/district levels more so in the cases
where approaches to handling resources and community initiatives differed. However, things gradually
changed in the light of improvements and visible outputs. A number of donors started to follow the HRDP
procedures especially those which were related to using school bank accounts, selection of girls for
assistance and civil works and those related to procurement procedures.

CEF funds had to be used to purchase goods, works or services towards the costs as itemized in the year
plan, however, there were cases where this requirement was violated by head teachers who had to be given
written warnings and in some cases they were demoted to ordinary teachers.

There were minor irregularities in some of the schools' financial accounts, which the auditors called
"honest mistakes". These were caused by in-experience in keeping-proper books of accounts.

As regards the GSES there were instances where the Head teacher alone did the selection and this was also
the case in some districts where the selection was done by the DEO and the DED in solo contrary to
guidelines. In this way there appeared to be some elements of favoritism but the girls selected this way
were later found not to be the deserving candidates and had their bursaries withdrawn.

                       Assessment of Economic and Social Returns

Even if those learners who go through CEF/GSES programmes do not go further into higher schooling,
when they finally settle in the community the learnt cognitive skills and values will influence the work
habits and organizational skills of those who did not go to CEF/GSES schools who will be working along
side them. Thus, as long as the supervisory skills of the CEF/GSES learners are realized and utilized they
will promote higher levels of income for others who will be working along side them and for society.

To the extent that the increase in productivities of others can be reflected in higher wages at the community
level, then the first round spillovers of CEF/GSES learners ought to be reflected in both social and private
rates of return calculations as an additional component.

Incidentally HRDP, reviews confirmed our earlier belief that the impact of CEF/GSES should not be
narrowed down to the "schooling for all" indicators only, in the form of access, participation and
quality-improvement. Over and above the benefits which are related to conventional schooling some of the
district local and central government functionaries seemed to view CEF/GSES as part of broad efforts
aimed at community capacity building and institutional arrangement strengthening within the local
government reform framework. In this regard the HRDP was viewed as having helped the communities to
see their strengths weaknesses, opportunities and threats and to be able to take informed action on girls
education and primary education support.

Reduction of demand to social services: The indirect benefits of CEF/GSES could also be seen from
some positive statements given by school committee members who happened to be members of the Village
Councils. It was argued that by enrolling out of school children (girls) some of whom had been idling by
into CEF/GSES learning, this action has tended to encourage lawful behaviour. It was observed that
before GSES the propensity to commit petty criminal offences or any other unlawful tendencies was high



                                                     - 41 -

and
several school leaders also stated that to some degree the extent to which the girls were willing to assume
voluntary responsibility for welfare activities has to some degree increased. In the long run if the GSES
values are sustained the demand for social services being performed by the local government only, may be
reduced.

Political externalities of CEF/GSES. Education provision tends to foster political stability other things
being equal. We cannot be certain as to the level of political competence the CEF/GSES learners had
before entering the programme. The general view from the way the girls confidently expressed themselves
and discussed freely their programme and their background before GSES is that they have through GSES
developed into a relatively informed electorate compared with the large community. Some of them have
grown into becoming competent political leaders in their villages. They may also grow to demand political
accountability through the ballot box by voting with their feet!

Investment in Women Education GSES gives preference in access to education by girls. The project data
shows that in fact girls enrollment increased and retention was high. Through deliberate investment in girls
education women are given future assurance of occupational flexibility in the labour force partly on
account of being facilitated to acquire work related-vocational skills that are required both in the informal
and formal economy. Returns from investment in girls' education are usually high in developing countries
mainly because of the second-round spillover benefits that accompany girls/women's education. In the
sense of neoclassical economics and marginal return analysis the private an social economic returns for
women are actually lower than those of men-given their lower average earnings and low labour force
participation rates. However, in terms of externalities and second round spillover benefits investment in
women has shown high social return and mainly its effect on fertility rate and corresponding effect on per
capita GDP
The old belief that enrolment of boys does not increase as a consequence of increasing enrollment for girls
is not true. In actuality HRDP tended to suggest that as households are sending their daughters to GSES
schools and as few of these pass and go to secondary schools, the households will undertake additional
efforts to secure secondary education for their sons. Furthermore, those GSES learners who had siblings in
mainstream schools had their family's educational cost burdens reduced given that these households did not
have to buy school uniforms or learning materials for the GSES learners/girls.

Cost-Efficiency. The cost effectiveness of HRDP whether undertaken by the community itself or in
combination with external support, is a "sine qua non" for sustainability. Our view is that CEF/GSES
must be funded in such a way that when World Bank funding ceases to be available, children who are now
served by CEF/GSES may continue to have access to education.

Some activities like workshops, training and project support were expensive and contributed to higher unit
cost configuration. These activities though seemingly necessary in the first phase of the pilots, can be
reduced substantially in the scaling-up phase and as part of larger PEDP/SEDP because the Local
Government Reform Process would have taken root.

Several approaches were available for computing the returns to investment in CEF/GSES. The elaborate
method of cost-benefit analysis is based on actual age-earnings profiles of CEF/GSES learners over their
life-time and data on cost of CEF/GSES including both direct and indirect costs (earnings foregone).

Due to data unavailability and because it is not easy to project the Tanzania labour market wage/salary
trajectory with certainty this procedure was not used. If used this approach would have produced a stream
of costs and benefits for both CEF/GSES graduates over life time. The follow up calculations of net-


                                                    - 42 -

present values and benefit-cost ratios would determine the criteria for resource allocation decisions related
to CEF/GSES as a comparison with formal schooling ratios.

The ex-post project estimation of the Internal Rate of return (IRR) for the HRDP is based on similar
framework as that carried out at the beginning of the project. This is well outlined in the Staff Appraisal
document of the HRDP (1997). Appendix VIII. However, there are a few observations to note in the
ex-post estimations:

(a)      CEF benefits are computed from increment in annual income from completing primary school
times the expected working life expectancy; increase income from improved primary education quality and
social benefits of a girl attending seven years of primary school. Average primary-school completion age in
Tanzania is 15 years and life expectancy is 49 years. Therefore, average working life expectancy is
estimated to be 49-15 = 34 years.
(b)      Annual enrolments have been adjusted for drop out rates, which have been argued that they did not
change as a result of the coming of CEF.
(c)      GSES benefits are computed from increment in annual income from attending and completing
secondary school, and social benefits of a girl attending 4 years of secondary school. Adjustments have
also been made for drop out cases. Secondary school graduating age is 19 years and therefore, have 30
years of working.
(d)      The ex-post estimates are on the lower side because benefits from those dropping out after several
years of schooling are not included. Also, benefits are assumed to accrue after the project period and
therefore ignoring those who benefited from the project in less than seven years. It should also be noted
that benefits from capacity building are accrued over years just like improvement in learning environment.
These are not included in the ex-post estimates. (Appendix VIII)

The estimates tend to suggest that with full project costs taken in to consideration the ex-post social internal
rates of return were 25.97% for CEF and 5.62% for GSES with a total project internal rate of return of
26.99% When only the direct costs are considered the returns increase to 38.7% for CEF, 14.75 for GSES
and 34.02% for the total project.

The above results suggest that investment in CEF/GSES learning was a worthwhile undertaking since the
social returns are high and comparable to those from physical capital. However, if policy and education
officials want to maximize the returns they will need to scale ­up the project with efficiency gains. This
means in scaling up CEF/GSES the implementation Isystem will have to be made leaner and more
cost-effective by reducing some of costs related to workshops, preparation of materials and related
professional travel an consumption related backups

                                                Sustainability
The project was designed and implemented in the context of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). It was
part of the broad strategy of attaining national ownership and leadership in education development process
and alignment of national education priorities and national structures, so as to reduce transaction costs and
register operational efficiency gains.

It is envisaged that the good elements of CEF and GSES will replace individual donor country assistance
strategies as one way of reducing multiple project implementations and thus being able to enhance
education investment coordination so as to promote collective support to education provision consistent
with national development goals and priorities.

The project has built an environment for its sustainability from both the demand and supply sides. It has


                                                      - 43 -

created empowerment and enthusiasm among the community to demand and support quality education.
The communities are now conscious of their role as owners of the schools within their localities and are
ready to supply school inputs. The government has now scaled up the idea of matching grants in the form
of capitation and development grants.

                              Borrower's and Bank Performance


The Project had a slow start, but after the mid-term review(s) its implementation improved considerably.
All the required credit has been disbursed so far and the CEF and GSES programs have had a highly
satisfactory performance. This goes a long way to show the dedication of the implementers at all levels.

At central level the project team and organizational structure was lean while its operational efficiency was
enhanced by personnel stability and continuity. The same original key personnel did not change during the
project period. These were the project director, internal auditor, GSES Coordinator, CEF coordinator,
procurement officer, the monitoring expert, and the accountant.

There were very few layers of decision making. The PSG judiciously made most operational decisions. At
school level the head teachers and school committee chairpersons were basically the final authority in
approval and spending of funds on approved school plans
The World Bank was not passive in the process of HRDP, and though it did not change its orthodox
policies and practices it gave more space to PSG and MOEC for local initiatives that facilitated progress
towards community ownership by encouraging and supporting the use of local consultants in reviews,
analysis and discussions which led to more informed and balance PSG decision making.

Work relations between the Bank, the Borrower and implementing agencies were "fairly" good. However,
a 2003 impact evaluation report by Omari, Mushi and Mwamba did make a telling assessment of the bank
regarding its operational efficiency which is instructive that "operational efficiency in a project is often
enhanced by personnel stability, continuity and unwavering of steering of project activities towards set
objectives". There were frequent changes in the key project personnel from the World Bank side; indeed,
seven changes in desk officers. These changes might have been operationally unavoidable on the part of
the Bank, however it was not self evident that they helped the project.




                                         Important Observations

Ownership, Policy Dialogue and the Role of Sectors and Local Councils: Investment in education from
either local or external resources will usually bring together relationships between central ministries
(MOEC, Presidents Office) and Local Government authorities. These relationships and the Completion
Report emerging roles need to be harmonized if maximum value is to be achieved from the investment.

During the course of project implementation; the Government through the decentralization policy of 1998
transferred more power and facilitated greater participation on the part of LGAs and communities. The
Local Government Reform Programme (LGRP) whose main features were very much similar to those of
the CEF. These included progress towards district restructuring and planning and setting up of the
managerial organization, allocation and training of local staff. Indeed, for these districts which were under
the CEF the introduction of the LGRP was easier and the concept was grasped readily.




                                                    - 44 -

World Bank, Development Partnership and Dialogue Process
The World Bank and some development partners seemed to have organized themselves more formally in
response to the launching of Tanzania Assistance Strategy way back in 1994. The MOEC on behalf of
Government had to also compliment GOT's own coordination efforts by initiating internal coherence in the
context of the Country Assistance Strategy with a view of reducing transaction costs in education provision
Participation and Institutionalisation: Participation in education provision and particularly for girls has
been broadened and is becoming more adopted in national programmes. The policy-making processes were
broadened in terms of participation in CEF and GSES by the key stakeholders at district levels.

Participation and Institutionalisation


Participation in education provision and particularly for girls has been broadened and is becoming more
adopted in national programmes. The policy-making processes were broaded in terms of participation in
CEF and GSES by the key stakeholders at district levels.


Budget Process, and Public Financial Management and Accounting Systems: The HRDP allowed
communities and MOEC to engage in prioritization of education activities. There was a strong link
between Implementation CEF, GSES, capacity building and research activities. Budget and procurement
guidelines were written and followed to reflect priorities. Challenges of financial control as well as those
that were related to allocation of resources by priorities were tackled. There was improved resources
management, transparency and accountability of the matched and contributed finances.


                                           The Lessons Learnt

Requiring community contributions and linking their size to that of the government grant to the fiscal
capacity of the community is an effective way of increasing the amount of funds for primary education
provision in cases where the ability of the government to support primary education from general tax
revenue is very limited. Parents/community members were willing to make contributions for primary
education purposes because the funds were used to improve the schools their children attended, because of
the incentive provided by the matching ratio, and because the procedures put in place gave them
confidence that the funds were being properly utilized.

Local community members in rural as well as in urban areas can manage financial resources appropriately
provided there are effective training and sensitization activities availed to them through capacity building.

It is difficult to find girls who are qualified to attend secondary school from the very lowest socio-economic
strata. If the purpose of scholarship schemes and programs is to help them, then the focus should be on
improving the quality of their primary education.

A merit based scholarship program that targets the very poorest and deprived households and communities
is unlikely to succeed; very few pupils can be found in this strata of society who are academically and
personally qualified to make a success of secondary education.

A selection process that relies on head teachers and village council in a transparent setting is far from
perfect; but is likely to be better than having the selection made by an external, arms-length agency with no
personal knowledge of the people being selected.




                                                        - 45 -

Skills of staff and communities need to be upgraded and structures need to created so as to allow for
substantial community participation. Partly based on the positive experiences gained from HRDP and
social sector support strategy at national level, the other aim of such programmes should be strengthening
the directorates of planning and human resources development, the education provision and the support
institutions with particular emphasis put on development of management capacity.




                                                     - 46 -

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT


                                                 PREFACE

                            The Human Resources Development Pilot Project
                                                   (HRDP)
                                             Credit. No. 2991-TA

1.      This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for THE HUMAN RESOURCES
DEVELOPMENT PILOT PROJECT (HRDP) in Tanzania for which credit No. 2991-TA in the amount of
SDR 15 million equivalent to US $ 20.9 million was approved. Total project cost was estimated at US $
24 million, the Government of Tanzania contributing US $ 1.0 million and communities contributing US $
2.1 million.

2.      The Government of Tanzania (GOT) and the World Bank signed a loan agreement to finance the
Human Resources Development Pilot Project (HRDP) through the World Bank agency the International
Development Association (IDA).

3.      The Loan was approved on 07/10/1997 and the credit agreement was signed on 29/10/1997. The
Project became effective on 18th February 1998 and the expected closing date is 31st December 2005. The
Girls Secondary Education Support (GSES) component of the project will continue until the last batch of
girls who are already in the project and are being supported complete their Advanced Level of Secondary
Education in the year 2007.

4.      The Credit grant was fully disbursed by 99.5%. The Loan is repayable in 40 years after a grace
period of 10 years .

5.      This report is based inter alia, on the: Tanzania Country Portifolio Performance Review, February
2003; the Staff Appraisal Reports (several years); Implementation Experiences of the HRDP- by the
MOEC (2002, 2003); Evaluation of the Impact of the "Human Resources Development Project " (1999
and 2003); Human Resources Development Pilot Project (HRDP)-Mid-term Reports (several) and the
HRDP-Implementation Statistical Data for the years (2000) and (2003).

                                           Project Formulation

        Project Background

6.      By 1994 the Government had recognized the problems besetting the education sector which
included among others; low enrollments and poor quality of primary schooling, low secondary school
enrollments particularly for girls, inadequate school-level management and little accountability to
parents and communities.

7.      The government recognized these problems and the importance of correcting them. As part of the
solution it had proposed a framework for the social sectors, the Social Sector Strategy (URT 1994), which
contained the following basic future principles:

    § Concentratingpublicsectorresourcesoncoreactivitiesofgovernment;



                                                     - 47 -

    § Balancingpersonnelandotherinputswithinthesocialsectors;

    § Decentralizingauthoritytothelocallevel;

    § Eliminatingconstraintstoprivatesectorparticipationinprovisionofsocialservices;

    § Promotinghighqualitystandards;

    § Movingresourcesclosertothehouseholdandpromotinghouseholdinvestmentinhumancapital;

8.      The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) prepared an Education and Training Policy
(URT, 1995) that emphasized liberalizing the education sector in step with the rest of the economy and
increasing the accountability of service providers to clients. A Basic Education Master Plan (BEMP)
(URT 1997) was produced as initial takeoff of a larger and expanded process for an Education Sector
Development Programme (ESDP). These efforts included a need for an adequately funded, pluralistic
school system that benefits from greater involvement of parents and local government in management.
They proposed additional international support and investment in education.




                                                 THE PROJECT

Project Objectives

9.      In line with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS); the overall program rationale for the project
was to efficiently increase investment in human capital, to raise incomes, reduce inequality and improve
non-market outcomes.

 10.    The project was meant to contribute to the CAS objective by seeking to strengthen the borrower's
education sector in the following areas;

   l raising enrollments and quality learning outcomes of primary education through increased parental
        participation and financing, school based planning and management of resources, school based
        quality enhancement initiatives and improved support for schools at district level;

   l expanding educational opportunities and improving quality at the secondary level, particularly for
        girls from poorer household;

   l building capacity through these efforts/activities at the district and community levels and through
        selective training and implementation at the central level; and

   l improving policy development, planning, and research in the education sector through modernized
        testing and statistical systems, operation research, policy studies and strategic plans for basic and
        secondary education.




                                                    - 48 -

                           PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND DESIGN

11.     The project design embodied all the characteristics of a Pilot Project, flexible enough to allow
learning by doing and modifications arising out of the implementation experiences and learning. The
project was envisaged that it should not harm the existing system but the lessons borne out of the
implementation experience, if successful, be taken to scale.

12.    Table 1 shows the four major components of the projects and these are discussed separately below.


 Table 1. Overview of Project with IDA Financing
    Component                                       Total

    A. Community Education Component                5.01

    Matching Grants                                 4.71

    Academic Improvement Contestable Grants         0.15

    Nutrition & Health Contestable Grants           0.15

    B. Girls' Bursary Component                     6.93

    Bursaries/Scholarships                          5.82

     Science Kits                                   1.00

    Academic Improvement Contestable Grants         0.06

    Gender Improvement contestable Grants           0.06

    C    Capacity Building                          2.22

    2.CEF ­ Related Training                        0.38

    GSES-Related Training                           0.29

    MOEC-Pilot Management                           1.10

    MOEC-Training Program                           0.25

    MOEC ­ Conferences & Dissemination              0.19

    D. Policy development. Planning, and Research   4.49

    Strengthening NECTA                             0.80

    Strengthening MOEC Statistics Section           0.37

    Pilot Monitoring & Evaluation                   0.65

    Pilot Monitoring & Evaluation survey Costs      0.87

    Welfare Monitoring Surveys                      1.20

    Policy and Strategy                             0.60

    Contingencies for prices (4 percent)            0.45

    Contingencies for Contributions (5 percent)     0.24

    Contingencies for Enrolments (5 percent         0.24




                                                    - 49 -

 Community Education Fund Pilot (CEF)

13.     Objective: to raise enrolments and the quality of primary education with increased participation
of the community and teachers in managing their schools ( (this objective was allocated IDA financing
of value $ 5.0 million) .

14.   CEF pilot was a matching grant program for primary schools which was designed to increase
enrollment, improve the quality of schooling and to increase parental and community involvement in
monitoring school performance. Planning of CEF began in March 1995. This included pre-tests of the
design and consultation with beneficiaries over a two year period.

15.      The target of this component was to cover 1,000 primary schools with a total population of
400,000    pupils but in practice it turned out that the project covered 1642 primary schools with a total
population of 685,119 pupils.

16.      During the pilot phase, districts and or schools were invited to join the CEF programme. For these
schools it was planned that the government contribution from the recurrent budget would remain unchanged
to avoid disrupting the operation of the system: The pilot just added funds at the margin as the institutional
framework was enabled such that in the long run schools could ultimately manage the operations.

17.      From calendar year 1997 through 1999, the CEF program gradually expanded to cover all schools
in the districts of Kibaha, Kilosa, Lindi Urban, Mtwara Rural, and Sumbawanga Urban. The gradual
expansion of the CEF was meant to be used by the monitoring and evaluation component to track its
impact.

18.      The outcome of the pretest and pilot showed significant results. The project was expanded to other
districts which had Girls Secondary Education Support (GSES) but no CEF. These districts were Kigoma
(R), Lindi (R), Kilombero, Rufiji and Morogoro (R). The project expanded to six other districts so as to
test the impact of the project on medium level welfare index districts. These included the districts of
Tabora (M), Dodoma (M), Shinyanga (R), Mwanza (M), Musoma (M) and Bukoba (R) which,
incidentally, were among those in the first phase of the Local Government Reform Process.

         Girls' Secondary Education Support
19.      Objective: To expand educational opportunities for girls from poorer families and to improve
quality at the lower secondary level (this objective was allocated IDA financing of around $ 6.9
million)

20.      As with the CEF, development of the Girls' Secondary Education Support (GSES) had the
pre-tests and client consultation so as to improve the design. This GSES component provided for the
following;

    l Selection of one poor girl per primary school annually ( which actually translated into one girl from
         each village) who was academically capable but would not have been able to attend secondary
         school without a bursary.

    l Payment of a bursary by the project to a pre-qualified secondary school in which the girl enrolled;

    l Monitoring of the girls and the secondary school to make sure that agreements were kept and the
         girls were doing well.

21.      Girls were eligible for support during all four years of lower secondary school. The project



                                                      - 50 -

allowed them to interrupt their schooling for up to one year for any acceptable reason. They could also
repeat a year of schooling and retain eligibility.

22.      IDA has financed the bursaries plus the costs of setting up and managing the GSES program.
From the schools that successfully participated in the GSES program the project solicited. Academic
improvement plans and plans to improve the opportunities and care of girls in the school. These plans
were generated by the schools, and grants were awarded on a competitive basis with limited funds
available for this purpose. IDA also financed the purchase of science kits so as to improve the teaching of
science at secondary level.

         Capacity building
23       Objective: to help develop capacity to implement CEF and GSES at all levels and to help
MOEC formulate and implement innovative solutions to problems in primary and secondary (this
objective was allocated IDA financing of $ 2.2 million equivalent).

24       The CEF and GSES components have acted as vehicles for capacity and competence building for
school based management approach. Several training materials and seminars have been developed. It was
designed in such a manner that the CEF operations would facilitate learning by doing at community level.
The process was supposed to be planned, democratic in determining options and priorities, consensus on
the levels of contributions to support the schools, procurement and reviewing of the implementation.

25       A particular feature of the GSES program was supposed to be its contribution to improving
knowledge of the secondary school system especially among the communities that have not been able to
send a child to secondary school in many years, which was thought to be essential for a better functioning
of the education market.

26       Capacity was also to be promoted at the MOEC central level in relation to pilot management as an
element of policy development for the whole sector.

27       The credit was also supposed to finance limited training programme to improve skills in the MOEC
in the areas of economics of education analysis/evaluation, of education policy, impact evaluation of
education programs, finance and educational management.

28       As regards MOEC's/conferences/dissemination the credit was also designed to finance
participation in a number of international conferences annually for education sector staff- to present results
of the pilot programs and of the reforms to professional audiences so as to gain from greater exposure to
international practices.

Policy Development, Planning and Research

29       Objective: to strengthen policy development planning, and research in the education sector
through improved testing and statistics systems, operations research policy studies, and strategic sector
development plans (this objective was allocated IDA financing of equivalent to US $ 4.5 million

30       The project aimed at improving policy development, planning and research in the education sector
through modernized testing and statistics system, operations research, policy studies, and strategic plans for
basic and secondary education.

31       As per social sector strategy the project sought to re-orient the government to perform core


                                                     - 51 -

responsibilities related to output and policy orientation. These responsibilities were defined as: national
policy making, maintenance of the core curriculum, teacher certification and standards, technical
assistance to lower levels of the system; national performance, evaluations and policy-analysis
feedback, and general monitoring and evaluation of educational programs.

32       The project under this policy component provided targeted support for: the National
Examination council of Tanzania (NECTA); the MOEC Statistics Section, Pilot Monitoring and
Evaluation of CEF and GSES components so as to produce lessons for education policy; Pilot surveys
to feed into the M & E effort.

33       The project provided resources for both welfare monitoring and support for high priority studies
needed for further development and implementation of the Basic Education Master Plan and the Secondary
Education Master Plan. Financing by IDA was intended for work for which financing was not available
from the borrower or other donors.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
34       A number of key features can be discussed which characterized the implementation and results of
the four components of the Human Resource Development Project (HRDP), namely: the Community
Education Fund (CEF) Girls Secondary Education Support (GSES), Capacity Building as well as Policy
Development Planning and Research. From the various documents available such as the Supervision
Mission Aide Memoires, End of Year Evaluation Reports, Annual Work Plans, Statistics on the HRDP
Components Status Reports, Impact Evaluation Reports, and the Disbursement Schedules, it is possible to
assert that, overall, the implementation was fairly smooth and results largely positive given the innovative
nature of the project design and the project's specific objectives. Where difficulties arose in implementing
agreed objectives the close consultation and collaboration between the Government of Tanzania and its
representatives at all levels and the World Bank staff facilitated the amicable resolution of the given
difficulty.

35.      Project supervision by Government district level personnel was adequately close and the national
level Pilot Support Group (PSG) personnel made regular visits to the districts and schools to assist and
guide the implementation process. The smooth implementation of all the components of the HRDP was
facilitated by the establishment of the HRDP Advisory Board chaired the Chief Education Officer of the
MOEC. The Board comprised of representatives from key stakeholders including Directors from all
departments of the MOEC. Each component of the HRDP was characterized by similar fairly similar or
experimentation experience and by largely positive results.

The Community Education Fund (CEF)
36.      Although the CEF pilot project was started in 1998, it had been pre-tested right from July 1995.
Thus, in effect, it started in 1995 with 4 pre-test schools in Kibaha expanding in 1996 to include some
more schools from Kilosa and Mtwara Rural Districts. Initially the CEF was to have covered at least 500
primary schools but it was subsequently flexibly expanded to cover 1642 school. The expansion was
decided on due to the fact that the CEF was aimed at poor districts as per the welfare index and yet these
were precisely the very districts with residents whose attitudes towards education achievement were
lukewarm and whose capacity to contribute financial resources to attract CEF matching funds was most
limited. There are several questions which ought to be answered however.

37.      Were the districts included in the CEF properly selected? The first five districts to be enrolled in
the scheme were amongst the poorest in the country. In January of 2000, two years before this component



                                                      - 52 -

closed, 11 other districts were added. They were selected because they were involved in the implementation
of the Local Government Reform Act, the goal being to determine whether the project could be coordinated
within and implemented through that initiative, and also to determine how the project would work in
districts that were not among the poorest. Thus, from a poverty perspective, the selection was not totally
appropriate. But from the perspective of a pilot project meant to test whether the scheme would work
throughout the country, it was appropriate.

38.       Did resources available to CEF schools increase during this period? The best we can do to
answer this question is to compare CEF and non-CEF districts during the period this project operated.
From 1998 through 2001, per pupil non-salary expenditures in non-CEF districts that relied solely on the
standard government program averaged Tsh 2,366 (roughly, US $ 2.37 per pupil). In CEF districts during
this period, the comparable figure was Tsh. 8,293, (US $ 8.2) approximately 3.5 times more. It is evident,
therefore that there were more resources going to CEF schools.

39.      How did poorer communities fare under this program? With two exceptions, Mtwara and
Sumbawanga for which the matching ratio was 1:2, for the rest the matching ratio was set at 1:1 at the
outset of this program. This resulted in poorer communities receiving less government grants than richer
communities, which were able to make larger contributions. In recognition of this problem a "weak
schools" program was initiated which provided poorer communities with matching ratios of 1:2 and 1:3
plus, in some cases, contributions from district councils which were used to enhanced the base on which
government grants were calculated. This resulted in a dramatic turn-around. In 1999, weak schools
received government grants averaging Tsh 263,000 per school compared to the Tsh          890,000 received by
non-weak schools. In 2001, weak schools received Tsh. 4,480.000 compared to Tshs 1, 819,000

40.      How did the poor within communities fare? The scheme did not specify rules for deciding on the
level of contributions and burden sharing. As a consequence, after a period of trial and error, a variety of
approaches were utilized. Most communities started off with considerable optimism, pledging an
unrealistically large amount and assuming that everyone would pay the same amount per child. Over time,
this evolved to more realistic levels, often levied on households without regard to the number of children,
sometimes involving exemptions, other times allowing partial payments and payments in kind. In general,
those who did not pay were requested to contribute in kind so that everyone felt him-or herself to be part of
the community enterprise with a right to participate in community meetings. The household survey did not
provide any evidence of serious unhappiness about the way the burden was shared.

41.      What were these funds spent on? Within broad limits, CEF permitted communities to decide how
to spend these funds. Over half of the resource accumulated under this program was devoted to
construction and rehabilitation of classrooms. Other large expenditures included furniture, teachers'
housing, and latrines. Teaching and learning materials (including textbooks) were present but to a lesser
degree, in part because they were supposed to be provided directly by districts. There were a few
expenditures on questionable items, for example, sports equipment and events.

42.      In order to solve the problem of ending up with CEF funds not being fully disbursed within the
project life span, it was decided to increase the number of participating districts giving priority to the
districts implementing the other component of the HRDP the GSES as well as districts with middle income
status as per the welfare index but which were among the first 35 districts implementing the Government's
local government reform programme.




                                                     - 53 -

                                           Table 2: Unit Contr. Tshs

                                                                     Unit Com. Contr. Per Pupil

                                            Unit Contr. Tshs          1,115 1,276 1,302 1,646 3,007 3,857

                                            year                       1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001




                                            Figure 1: Unit Contribution Tshs


                                      4,500

                                      4,000

                                      3,500

                                      3,000

                                      2,500

                                  Tsh 2,000

                                      1,500

                                      1,000

                                        500

                                          0

                                              1996    1997     1998    1999     2000        2001


                                                                   year

                                                                                   Unit Contribution Tshs




Results
43.      These expenditures had quite positive effects on the physical environment of schools in some
villages. Of course, they had quite limited effects on schools in communities that failed, because of income
or disinterest, in making significant contributions. The weak schools program changed this situation, but
the observable effect is limited because this program was only in force for one year before the CEF closed.

                                                                   Table 3: Net Enrolment Ratios (NER)
                                                                               1996 1997 1998 1999 2000                2001
                                                    National                     56.3 56.7                57 57.1 59.5 65.5
                                                    CEF Districts                53.8 49.1 52.2 56.6 66.4              78.1




                                          Figure 2: Net Enrolment Ratios (NER)

                                                          National      CEF Districts

                                 100

                                  80

                                  60

                                  40

                                  20

                                     0
                                           1996    1997      1998     1999     2000         2001
                                                                  year



44.      The results of the CEF have also been positive in that as of August 2002 the number of pupils in
CEF schools had reached 685,119, the number of classrooms built by these schools was 1,554 while
teachers' houses were 420 and additional pupils desks procured were 11,726. In addition Academic and




                                                              - 54 -

Health Improvement Grants were provided to the best schools on a competitive basis. These resources were
acquired by the relevant schools through the implementation of CEF. This component contributed to the
attainment of the HRDP goals of raising primary school enrollment as well as improving the learning
environment in the relevant primary schools.

                 Table 4. Key Performance Results for the Community Education Fund


            Objective                   Key Indicator                     Results
           Increased Enrollment         Village- or ward-level gross     § grewmorerapidlyin
                                        primary school enrollment        CEF than non-CEF district
                                        rate                             NER (CEF = 78.1, national
                                                                         = 66)
           Improved Student             Measures of school
           Performance                  performance on Primary           § largelystable
                                        School Leaving Examination       performance on PSLE
           Improved School              Changes in physical plant,       § classroomrehabilitated.
           Environment for learning     availability of books and other § new construction (86%)
                                        teaching inputs                  § teacherhousing (8.5%)
           Increased Parental           Parental contributions,          § ownership,participation
           Involvement                  number of school committee       accountability enhanced
                                        meetings annually
           Improved School              Production and quality of        § Improvedattendance
           management                   school plans                     § Clientsatisfaction
           Improved Financing           Available funds for primary      § Non-salaryfunding
                                        school from all sources          increased

45.      The CEF schools did also register marked improvement in the non salary resources available to the
relevant school with per-pupils resources increasing from an average of Tshs 1,115 to Tshs 3,857. The
above improvements seem to have contributed to significant improvement in academic performance by the
relevant schools reflected in the fact that the percentage of pupils in CEF schools scoring A to C grades on
the Primary Schooling Leaving Examination (PSLE) increased from 20.9 to 35. However, some project
reviews tend to suggest that the evidence with respect to improve repetitions rates and performance on
standardized examinations was too weak and dependent on the way the analysis was done to conclude that
any differential improvement occurred in these areas! However, there was no sign of deteriorating
performance for the CEF sample as a whole. (Table 4 gives a summary of CEF performance results)

         The Girls Secondary Education Support (GSES ) Experiences
46       The Operation Guidelines had been developed as to include rules of procurement and disbursement.
The rules were revised as part of the pre-tests and for most part had resulted in successful procurement for
the girls who were supported by the scholarship program. However, as in the CEF case it was realized that
contracts for implementation would have been many and of small value. It was also noted that some funds
considerably less than US $ 100 per girl might be needed to be used for the purchase of books, uniforms,
transportation, tutoring and other inputs of education nature.

47       The procurement included selection of a school for each girl and responsibility for procuring the
necessary additional items for the girls. These items included for example textbooks and school supplies.
The implementation plan reflected what was contained in the Operations Manual.



                                                     - 55 -

48      Most procurement took place when the girls began school. This was usually in January/February
of each year and at this time 75 percent of the fees as given in the schools joining instructions was paid.
However, there was a separate financial log maintained by the school for each girl. Usually this log was
reviewed every six months so as to determine whether the incurred expenditures were eligible. The
remaining 25 percent of the bursary was transferred to the school at the beginning of the second term and
once eligibility criteria were found satisfactory.

49      There was a Memorandum of Understanding between the school and the GSES program and
between the girl and her village that governed the use of funds. Yet, experience with this arrangement
during the pilot phase was good but mixed. And schools that did well on this item did so because continued
participation in the program partially depended on how well the school and the girl managed the funds.

50.    Recognizing the school and village based nature of the whole procurement and selection, the MOEC
through PSG conducted procurement and attendance audits and assessments at each school each year and
provided feedback to GSES beneficiaries on best practice for improving implementation. These reports
were also being used during the annual and mid-term reviews. In some cases they were used to review the
programme's guidelines or to issue new      instructions/circulars

51.    Bursary funds were sent directly to the secondary school where the girls were posted in accordance
with the joining instructions plus additional funds for up keep. The receiving secondary schools were
required to submit every six (6) months reports on the girls progress to the Districts and to the PSG.

        Results
52.    Enrolment and performance: A total of 4759 girls were enrolled in secondary education through
        the GSES program between 1996 and 2001. Completion rate for these girls improved over the
        years as the drop out rate fell from 4.1% to 1.2% far below the national figure.

                       Table 5: GSES enrolment Form (I-IV) 1996-2001

                                            Year             Form (I)              Form (I_IV)
                                            1996                392                    392
                                            1997                364                    756
                                            1998                628                    1325
                                            1999                641                    1983
                                            2000               1275                    2864
                                            2001               1425                    3882




                                            Figure 3: GSES Drop Out Rates 1998-2004

                                         5

                                        4

                                        3

                                        2

                                         1

                                        0
                                           1998  1999   2000  2001   2002   2003   2004

                                                         Y ear              GSESGirls




                                                         - 56 -

53.    According to the project design girls who interrupted studies could be allowed to be away for up to
one year and re-join school thereafter. The Project progress report dated November 2001 indicates that a
total of 62 girls interrupted their studies in 2001. Most of the interruptions resulted from pregnancies. In
2001 ,23 pupils re-joined school after interrupting their studies

                      Table 6. Key Performance Results for the Girls Bursary Program

   Objective                      Key Indicator                Results
   Increased Enrollment of Enrollment of Girls from § Increased enrolment
   Girls     from       Primary Primary Schools                § Increasedparticipation
   School
   High Survival Rate of Survival Rates of GSES § Decreasing drop out rate (4.1%
   Supported Girls                Girls through Form IV        to 1.5%) and truancy
   High     performance      of Performance      of    GSES § Stable performance (62%
   Supported Girls                Girls on certificate of passing)
                                  Secondary       Education
                                  Examination
   Gender-Friendliness       of Improvement of School § Increase in demand for girls
   School Environment             Environment     for   Girls assistance
                                  according    to  objective § Funds for needy girl available.
                                  measures

54.      Performance at "O" level was average. The majority of the GSES girls passed at division four.
This is comparable to national achievement average for this grade level. Division four is the lower grade
level and pupils achieving the division do not usually get admission for "A" level or tertiary training.
.
55.      According to the project design, the program would support 20 percent of girls qualifying for "A"
level secondary education and other tertiary institutions. The number of GSES girls who qualified for "A"
level admission between 2000 and 2004 were 409 and 50 for VETA while 266 girls qualified for Teacher
Training courses. According to national education statistics, girl's performance in "O" national
examinations has for some years been lower than that of boys. In this regard enrollment of girls to "A"
level has been low.

56        Other GSES results in the form of impact realized so far are:-
(a)      Capacity building in a form of training has been done. This has provided necessary skills to
different actors of GSES such as in areas related to financial management, procurement, school planning,
writing project proposals and selection of poor girls to benefit from secondary education bursaries.

(b)      GSES has assisted to improve the learning and teaching environment of schools participating in the
program through provision of text-books, counseling services and creating awareness on HIV/AIDS. It has
also improved the management and administration of schools as a result of funds contested for Academic
Improvement and Gender Action Plans.

(c)      Heads of schools have developed a sense of accountability and responsibility through sending to
PSG performance of GSES girls. They have also improved their accounting skills.




                                                     - 57 -

Capacity Building


57       Capacity building for CEF and GSES implementation was one of the major activities which were
undertaken throughout the life of the project Training was done through short seminars and workshops
which were organized by the PSG for different stakeholders within districts, primary and secondary
schools.


Training took place on an annual basis by training district level staff who in turn did training of school
committees and teachers. Besides, the organized seminars and workshops, project staff did sensitizing of
CEF and GSES practitioners.


58       It was also possible for the credit to finance long and short training of MOEC staff. This training
part was necessary in order to improve skills in areas of policy analysis, economics of education,
evaluation and in education financing. At policy development, training was conducted on how to use
scanning technology at NECTA and statistics section. The project did focus mainly on improving data
capture and efficient ways of producing examination results.

Results
59       There was specific training for implementation of the GSES and CEF initiatives. This initiative
created a pool of trained personnel at district, school and central level, both for the implementation of
project and for long term operations of the education system.

    Table 7: Capacity Building carried out over project life-time
            Year          Category          # of people Category           # of people        Total
                                            sensitized                         trained
            1998             School and            431,708                       1,468     433,176
                             community
                               members
            1999                     -do-          454,048         -do-         15,643     469,691
            2000                      -do-       2,240,752         -do-         50,947    2,291,69
                                                                                                  9
            2001                      -do-           4,345         -do-            294        4,639
            1998-2001                                                                14          14
            Total                                3,130,853                      68,366    3,199,21
                                                                                                  9

60       Training opportunities were availed through extended training. The range in this category was
from PH.D level training, masters programs, diploma courses, and short training course. This resulted into
acquisition of skills beyond the immediate needs of the project (see Appendix VII).

61       The project generated several out reach activities ranging from one day meetings for village chair
persons, school heads and district education officials to one week seminars and workshops for district
education officers. These activities raised the visibility of education enterprise and the plight of children in
poor schools.




                                                      - 58 -

        Policy Development, Planning and Research
62      The project was also to work towards "improving policy development, planning, and research in
education through ---- operations research, policy studies, and strategic plans for basic and secondary
education (WB, 1997, p.7)". Prior to the project launching in 1996, Tanzania had an Education and
Training Policy (MOEC 1995) but did not have a national education master plan although the idea had
been on the drawing board for quite some time then. Similarly, the research and monitoring unit in the
Policy and Planning Directorate was basically non existent as it comprised of one person only. The policy
intention of the project was to improve the climate through strategic interventions in policy studies and
operations research.

Results
63      Several activities were undertaken in this component of the project. Altogether 22 pieces of policy
studies and operations research reports are cited (see Appendix 111) Most of them are of policy relevance,
such as how to deal with girls whose studies get interrupted due to pregnancies; secondary school
selection; how to expand secondary education; and how to improve the quality of education. Some are
pretty much of operations nature, supposed to energize the process of implementing the project and
ameliorate other managerial problems of the ministry as a whole. These included the redesigning of data
capture instruments so that they could be amenable to scanning, capacity building strategies in the
education sector, and accounting procedures.

64      Follow up of Policy Studies. The 1999 Supervision Report advised that policy studies related to
"the selection system for government secondary schools" and "interruption of school attendance by girls in
primary and secondary schools p.7)" should be presented to the ministry officials such as the Permanent
Secretary and the Chief Education officer, and that they should be expanded. It is reported that indeed that
was done although policy change regarding pregnant girls has proved elusive and more complicated than
earlier on thought to be.(see Omari, Mushi, Mwamba, 2003).

65      Playing Facilitative Roles. The project objectives specifically mentioned the development of
"strategic plans for basic and secondary education (WB 1997 P.7)" Although the listing of studies did
not specifically include these two items, interview data suggested that the project facilitated the
development of the master plans called. Basic Education Master Plan, Secondary Education Master
Plan, and Teachers Education Master Plan. This was through studies No. 8, 16,18, 19, 20, 21, and 22
as shown in Appendix III

66      Reported Use of Some Reports. The Education Sector Status Report (# 17 in Appendix III) was
very useful in the formulation of the Basic Education Strategy Paper and the current Primary Education
Development Plan, and that study 16 in Appendix III on Quality Improvement Strategies had some input in
refocusing the government attention to quality issues, which is the greatest challenge the education system
was facing today.

                                     REASONS FOR SUCCESS

67      The Community Education Fund (CEF) and Girls Secondary Education Support (GSES): As
regards the CEF and GSES which were actually meant to test the mechanics of operationalization of
strategies under the ETP ( 1995) with a view of putting these strategies to scale and directed to the primary
education sub-sector several reasons for the registered successes are:

a)      The CEF/GSES ideas and their operationalization were introduced at the right time as they


                                                    - 59 -

responded to the demands of the communities as well as to the macro and micro economic/social reforms of
the time. These demands included those that had to do with improvement of primary/secondary school
enrolment quality and institutional strengthening.

b)      Resources reaching the schools/individuals were available and increasing. Before CEF/GSES
resources at the school/individual were meager, intermittent and unpredictable. With the introduction of
CEF/GSES schools/girls had more financial resources to operate with which came in different forms
(sources): in cash, in kind, in grants and labour inputs .

c)      The general design of the project and its implementation was fully pluralistic and participatory
from the initial stages and through out implementation and it was sensitizing and involving all
stake-holders. Moreover, the World Bank was fully involved in the design and implementation process; its
recommendations were always made available to the project support group.

d)      The project was generally planned and implemented within the structures of existing national
education systems (districts, MOEC, schools). Thus, the several activities of CEF and GSES and outputs
could be seen as part of the normal education service delivery system. The support given was
process-oriented and was linked to the everyday problems and roles of providers, managers and
implementers

e)      The whole project was linked to capacity competence building and institutional strengthening.
Through intensive training of direct implementers, the school head teachers, headmasters/mistresses,
teachers as well as council leaders, and schools committee members capacity and competence was
enhanced.

f)      The release of examination results to the public did introduce an element of competition among
schools and as a backwash effect most likely triggered improvement in subsequent performance.

                                             PROCUREMENT

67.     Procurement for the project consisted of the acquisition of goods, works and services to ensure
        smooth implementation of all the components. Procurement was at two levels i.e. at the centre and
        district.

68.     Centre: Procurement at the centre provided goods and services for the PSG operations; Statistics
        section of MOEC; and NECTA. The following goods and services were provided at these levels:-
        Four wheel drive station wagon vehicles, computers, photocopy machines, stationeries and
        facilitation of running of offices and services to personnel. Procurement was done to facilitate
        modernization and strengthening of MOECs statistics section. For NECTA, facilitation was done
        to support mechanization of the national examinations process. Therefore under procurement for
        MOEC statistics section and NECTA, the project supplied computers, servers, document scanner,
        CD library, printers, and specialized software for the former and computers, printers, scanners,
        LAN and associated specialize software for the latter. Training and workshops were also done as
        part of capacity building.

69.     Districts: The districts were supplied with the following items: bicycles, motorcycles, computers,
        small size photocopies, printers, electricity generators, air conditioners, software for computers,
        photocopiers and printers. Also a boat was supplied to one district. Capacity building was done to
        enable districts, schools and communities implement the construction of physical facilities.


                                                     - 60 -

70.      Management and sustainability: Management and sustainability of the goods and services
         provided was weaker at the districts. In the early years of the project it was difficult to have expert
         providers of spares and services for computers, printers and photocopiers in many of the Districts.
         Therefore servicing of computers and repairs had to be managed from the centre. However, the
         overall development of the country in information technology has now spread to a grater extent and
         there is increased technical expertise at districts. Services and repairs to computers and
         photocopiers can now be handled at many district centres and regional centres.

71.      Use of equipment after the projectAfter the closure of the project, any equipment, vehicles that
         were supplied under the project will be included in respective government inventories. Normal
         Government procedures will be used to transfer items from the project status to government
         mainstream properties.

                         FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION

72.      The core components of the project, i.e CEF and GSES targeted the poor. Initially the community
         response was slow and doubting but later the community picked up the tempo as results started to
         show. There was also a problem of donor/development partners' coordination at local/district
         levels more so in the cases where approaches to handling resources and community initiatives
         differed. However, things gradually changed in the light of improvements and visible outputs. A
         number of donors started to follow the HRDP procedures especially those which were related to
         using school bank accounts, selection of girls for assistance and civil works and those related to
         procurement procedures.

                     Factors related to compliance with agreement

73.      CEF funds had to be used to purchase goods, works or services towards the costs as itemized in
their year plan, however, there were cases where this requirement was violated by head teachers who had to
be given written warnings and in some cases they were demoted to ordinary teachers.

74.      There were minor irregularities in some of the schools' financial accounts, which the auditors
called "honest mistakes". These were caused by in-experience in keeping-proper books of accounts.

75.      There where cases where schools did not keep separate school bank accounts one for the funds the
school raised under the programme and the other for the matching grants. Such schools were put on one
year probation and of course this delayed implementation.

76.      Some schools did not as agreed make available to the village council and the district representative
financial records as part of accounting for the use of all school community and matching grants funds not
later than 6 months after the government's matching grant was deposited in the school's CEF account.

77.      As regards the GSES there were instances where the Head teacher alone did the selection and this
was also the case in some districts where the selection was done by the DEO and the DED in solo contrary
to guidelines. In this way there appeared to be some elements of favoritism as the girls thus selected were
later found not to be the deserving candidates.




                                                    - 61 -

          ASSESSMENT OF ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL RETURNS

          Overview of the Range of Benefits/Returns for the whole Project

78.       Externalities and spillover effects: As already shown both CEF and GSES increased enrolment
at primary and secondary levels. These pupils were all recruited from the community. As these learners
become "better educated" they will indirectly raise the incomes of the less educated who will be working
along side them.

79.       Even if those learners who go through CEF/GSES programmes do not go further into higher
schooling, when they finally settle in the community the learnt cognitive skills and values will influence the
work habits and organizational skills of those who did not go to CEF/GSES schools who will be working
along side them. Thus, as long as the supervisory skills of the CEF/GSES learners are realized and utilized
they will promote higher levels of income for others who will be working along side them and for society.

80.       To the extent that the increase in productivities of others can be reflected in higher wages at the
community level, then the first round spillovers of CEF/GSES learners ought to be reflected in both social
and private rates of return calculations as an additional component.

81.       Incidentally HRDP, reviews confirmed our earlier belief that the impact of CEF/GSES should not
be narrowed down to the "schooling for all" indicators only, in the form of access, participation and
quality-improvement. Over and above the benefits which are related to conventional schooling some of the
district local and central government functionaries seemed to view CEF/GSES as part of broad efforts
aimed at community capacity building and institutional arrangement strengthening within the local
government reform framework. In this regard the HRDP was viewed as having helped the communities to
see their strength, weaknesses, opportunities and threats and to be able to take informed action on girls
education and primary education support.

82.   Reduction of demand to social services: The indirect benefits of CEF/GSES could also be seen
from some positive statements given by school committee members who happened to be members of the
Village Councils. It was argued that by enrolling these children (girls) some of whom would have been
idling by into CEF/GSES learning, this action has tended to encourage lawful behaviour. It was observed
that before GSES the propensity to commit petty criminal offences or any other unlawful tendencies was
high and several school leaders also stated that to some degree the extent to which the girls were willing
to assume voluntary responsibility for welfare activities had increased. In the long run if the GSES values
are sustained the demand for social service being performed by the local government only, may be reduced.


83.   Political externalities of CEF/GSES. Education provision tends to foster political stability other
things being equal. Although it is not certain as to the level of political competence the CEF/GSES learners
had before entering the programme. The general view from the way the girls confidently expressed
themselves and discussed freely their programme and their background before GSES is that they have
through GSES developed into a relatively informed electorate compared with the large community. Some
of them have grown into becoming competent political leaders in their villages (coucillors). They may also
grow to demand political accountability through the ballot box by voting with their feet!

84.       Investment in Women Education GSES gives preference in access to education by girls. The
project suggested that in fact girls enrollment increased and retention was high. Through deliberate



                                                      - 62 -

investment in girls education women are given future assurance of occupational flexibility in the labour
force partly on account of being facilitated to acquire work related-vocational skills that are required both
in the informal and formal economy. Returns from investment in girls' education are usually high in
developing countries mainly because of the second-round spillover benefits that accompany girls/women's
education. In the sense of neoclassical economics and marginal return analysis the private an social
economic returns for women are actually lower than those of men-given their lower average earnings and
low labour force participation rates. However, in terms of externalities and second round spillover benefits
investment in women has shown high social return and mainly its effect on fertility rate and corresponding
effect on per capita GDP.

85.      In addition the HRDP-project anticipates other benefits from investment in girls' education which
eventually actuality accrue to large communities like: reduced fertility rates; women empowerment and
broad participation in governance and decision making, as well as improved schooling and health prospects
for children due to the education of their mothers. Women who are themselves educated tend to put a high
premium on children human capital development.

86. The old belief that enrolment of boys does not increase as a consequence of increasing enrolment for
girls is not true. In actuality, HRDP tended to suggest that as households are sending their daughters to
GSES schools and as few of these pass and go to secondary schools, the households will undertake
additional efforts to secure secondary education for their sons. Furthermore, those GSES learners who had
siblings in the mainstream schools had their family's education costs burdens reduced given that these
households did not have to buy school uniforms or learning materials for the GSES learners/girls.

87. The cost effectiveness of HRDP whether undertaken by the community itself or in combination with
external support, is a "sine qua non" for sustainability. The general view is that CEF/GSES must be
funded in such a way that when World Bank funding ceases to be available, children who are now served
by CEF/GSES may continue to have access to education.

88.      The amount and nature of funding sources have to conform with national investment guidelines.
Then the role of World Bank in the execution of the CEF/GSES pilot project needs to be clearly
understood. Although there were some misconceptions at district and community levels regarding the role
of World Bank this misconception has now been cleared through a MOEC circular which directs districts
to be prepared to carry the CEF/GSES ideas/initiatives to scale.

89.      The most expensive components contributing to higher unit cost configuration were the workshops
a training and project support. These components though seemingly necessary in the first phase of the
pilots, can be reduced substantially in the scaling-up phase and as part of larger PEDP/SEDP.

         Cost- Benefit Analysis of HRDP: This analysis should be interpreted with care since
several assumptions have been made which if do not hold the model does not work. This type of analysis
however, is useful in terms of resources. Choice an allocation. Due to un-availability of data we could not
use the long-method.
90.      Due to data unavailability and because the Tanzania labour market wage/salary trajectory cannot
be projected with certainty, this procedure was not used. If used this approach would have produced a
stream of costs and benefits for both CEF/GSES graduates over lifetime. The follow up calculations of
net-present values and benefit-cost ratios would determine the criteria for resource allocation decisions
related to CEF/GSES as a comparison with formal schooling ratios.




                                                    - 63 -

91.      The option, which was considered to be the second best solution given data availability problems
was to use the simplified Micerian approach which is now known as the "short-cut" method. This
approach is used when no longitudinal data are available. In this case the data was not available to permit
the full calculations of CEF/GSES learners' earnings functions. What was available instead were data
showing the average earnings at one point in time of workers with primary or secondary schooling and
higher education, together with estimates of the annual costs of CEF/primary, GSES/ secondary and higher
education.

92.      The ex-post project estimation of the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) for the HRDP is based on
similar framework as that carried out at the beginning of the project. This is well outlined in the Staff
Appraisal document of the HRDP (1997). Appendix VIII. However, there are a few observations to note in
the ex-post estimations:


                           Table 8: Estimated Internal Rate of Return(Percent)

                   Cost Basis                 CEF      GSE      Total Program
                                                          S
                   Full Project Costs         25.97    5.62               26.99
                   *Direct Cost only*         38.17 14.75                 34.02
    * Community CEF Contributions, CEF Grants and GSES Bursaries


    a) CEF benefits are computed from increment in annual income from completing primary school
    times the expected working life expectancy; increase income from improved primary education quality
    and social benefits of a girl attending seven years of primary school. Average primary-school
    completion age in Tanzania is 15 years and life expectancy is 49 years. Therefore, average working
    life expectancy is estimated to be 49-15 = 34 years.

    b) Annual enrolments have been adjusted for drop out rates, which have been argued that they did not
    change as a result of the coming of CEF.

    c) GSES benefits are computed form increment in annual income from attending and completing
    secondary school, and social benefits of a girl attending 4 years of secondary school. Adjustments have
    also been made for drop out cases. Secondary school graduating age is 19 years and therefore have 30
    years of working.

    d) The estimates are on the lower side because benefits from those dropping out after several years of
    schooling are not included. Also, benefits are assumed to accrue after the project period and therefore
    ignoring those who benefited from the project in less than seven years. It should also be noted that
    benefits from capacity building are accrued over years just like improvement in learning environment.
    These are not included in the ex-post estimates. (Appendix VIII).




             Table 9: Comparison of ex-ante and ex-ante and ex-post project IRR estimates




                                                    - 64 -

             Ex-ante estimates                             Ex-post estimates                     General
             Cost Basis         CEF    GSES        Total     CEF     GSES          Total     Assessment
                                                 program                       Program
             Full Costs           19        6         12    25.97      5.62       26.99      E-post IRR
                                                                                           >Ex-ante IRR
             Direct Cost          48      11          26    38.17     14.75       34.02     Ex-post IRR
             only*                                                                            > Ex-ante
                                                                                                    IRR



                                    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY

93.      The project was designed and implemented in the context of the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS). It was part of the broad strategy of attaining national ownership and leadership in education
development process and alignment of national education priorities and national structures, so as to reduce
transaction costs and register operational efficiency gains.

94.      It is envisaged that the good elements of CEF and GSES will replace individual donor country
assistance strategies as one way of reducing multiple project implementations and thus being able to
enhance education investment coordination so as to promote collective support to education provision
consistent with national development goals and priorities.

95.      The project has built an environment for its sustainability from both the demand and supply sides.
It has created empowerment and enthusiasm among the community to demand and support quality
education. The communities are now conscious of their role as owners of the schools within their localities
and are ready to supply school inputs.

96.      The training activities of the project have created a critical mass of service providers at village,
ward and district levels. There is now improved capacity and competence for planning, financial
management and education supervision. And by increasing education enrolment and its quality the project
has contributed to non-income poverty alleviation.

97.      The project did verify the applicability of strategies like the feasibility of sending funds meant for
primary school development straight to schools and the potent advantages of full community involvement in
financial control and management. These lessons have been incorporated in the scaled Primary Education
Development Program and the Secondary Education Development Programme.

98.      The GSES programme, has effectively helped to change community perceptions, and attitudes
towards girls' education. This has set example to the government, other organs and individuals on the need
and mechanism for assisting the needy and vulnerable to acquire secondary education.

99.      The girls scholarships program appeared to be well thought out in terms of an exist strategy and
phasing out. The Government has already set out Tsh. 2.4 billion for girls and boys from poor families,
and the HIV/AIDS orphans. This amount is too small because relatively the HRDP project provided twice
as much per year. Yet, some elements of sustainability are already being seen to emerge as the targeting of
academically able but economically poor girls is now being institutionalized in the country.




                                                      - 65 -

                                    BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

100.     The Project had a slow start, but after the mid-term review its implementation improved
considerably. All the required credit has been disbursed so far and the CEF and GSES programs have had
a highly satisfactory performance. This goes a long way to show the dedication of the implementers at all
levels.

101.     At central level the project team and structure was lean while its operational efficiency was
enhanced by personnel stability and continuity. The same original key personnel did not change during the
project period. These were the project director, internal auditor, GSES Coordinator, CEF coordinator,
procurement officer, the monitoring expert, and the accountant.

102.     Project supervision by the districts was quite close. Even with the project expansion, the PSG kept
pace and made regular visits to the districts and schools to assist and guide the implementation process
Disbursements were regular and the flow was as planned. Financial audits were on time and unqualified.

103.     There were very few layers of decision making. The PSG judiciously made most operational
decisions. At school level the head teachers and school committee chairpersons were basically the final
authority in approval and spending of funds on approved school plans.

                                          BANK PERFOMANCE


104.     The World Bank was not passive in the process of HRDP implementation, and though it did not
change its orthodox policies and practices it gave more space to PSG and MOEC for local initiatives that
facilitated progress towards community ownership by encouraging and supporting the use of local
consultants in reviews, analysis and discussions which led to more informed and balanced PSG decision
making.

105.     There were a number of visits by high-ranking officials of the Bank to selected project sites. Such
visits had an impact on the perceptions and performance of the communities. The supervision of the
project was satisfactory. Indeed, the several supervision mission reports were considered useful because as
a result implementation problems were identified, assessed and where necessary remedies were taken.

106.     Work relations between the Bank, the Borrower and implementing agencies were "fairly" good.
However, a 2003 impact evaluation report by Omari, Mushi and Mwamba did make a telling assessment of
the bank regarding its operational efficiency which is instructive that "operational efficiency in a project
is often enhanced by personnel stability, continuity and unwavering of steering of project activities
towards set objectives". There were frequent changes in the key project personnel from the World Bank
side; indeed, seven changes in desk officers. These changes might have been operationally unavoidable on
the part of the Bank, however it was not self evident that they helped the project.



                                   IMPORTANT OBSERVATIONS


   Ownership, Policy Dialogue and the Role of Sectors and Local Councils

107.     Investment in education from either local or external resources will usually bring together
relationships between central ministries (MOEC, Presidents Office) and Local Government authorities.



                                                     - 66 -

These relationships and the emerging roles need to be harmonized if maximum value is to be achieved from
the investment.

108.     During the course of project implementation; the Government through the decentralization policy
of 1998 transferred more power and facilitated greater participation on the part of LGAs and communities.
The Local Government Reform Programme (LGRP) had its main features very much similar to those of the
CEF. These included progress towards district restructuring and planning and setting up of the managerial
organization, allocation and training of local staff. Indeed, for these districts which were under the CEF the
introduction of the LGRP was easier and the concept was grasped readily.

109.        During the last year of the CEF programme (2001) the government introduced the Primary
Education Development Programme (PEDP). As a result the community was not clear whether to continue
with CEF approaches or not until it was clarified and the confusion cleared by MOEC. A coordinated
approach is therefore needed to address education provision challenges. The SWAPs and basket funding
are likely to work smoothly for education decentralization by devolution when they are aligned to the
district planning and budgeting process.

         World Bank, Development Partnership and Dialogue Process.

110.       The World Bank and some development partners seemed to have organized themselves more
formally in response to the launching of Tanzania Assistance Strategy way back in 1994. The MOEC on
behalf of Government had to also complement GOT's own coordination efforts by initiating internal
coherence in the context of the Country Assistance Strategy with a view of reducing transaction costs in
education provision.

Participation and Institutionalisation

111.     Participation in education provision and particularly for girls has been broadened and is becoming
more adopted in national programmes. The policy-making processes were broaded in terms of
participation in CEF and GSES by the key stakeholders at district levels.

Budget Process, and Public Financial Management and Accounting
Systems

112.       The HRDP allowed communities and MOEC to engage in prioritization of education activities.
There was a strong link between CEF, GSES, capacity building and research activities. Budget and
procurement guidelines were written and followed to reflect priorities. Challenges of financial control as
well as those that were related to allocation of resources by priorities were tackled. There was improved
resources management, transparency and accountability of the matched and contributed finances.

                                       THE LESSONS LEARNT

On CEF

113.     Requiring community contributions and linking their size to that of the government grant to the
fiscal capacity of the community is an effective way of increasing the amount of funds for primary
education provision in cases where the ability of the government to support primary education from general
tax revenue is very limited.



                                                     - 67 -

    114.    Parents were willing to make contributions for primary education purposes because the funds were
    used to improve the schools their children attended, because of the incentive provided by the matching ratio
    and because the procedures put in place gave them confidence that the funds were being properly utilized.

    115.       Local community members in rural as well as in urban areas can manage financial resources
    appropriately provided there are effective training and sensitization activities availed to them through
    capacity building.

    116.    The project eventually found acceptable ways to take care of the special problems of the poor, to
    offset and indeed to reverse the bias towards regressivity that is inherent in any scheme that makes grants
    depend on contributions in a situation of income inequality.

   117.     There are hints that the variables related to schooling outcomes (increased enrolment, decreased
dropouts and improved student performance) improved and by more in CEF than in non-CEF districts,
however the changes were small and the analysis presented in several reviews has not adequately controlled for
the other factors that could explain the results.

            On GSES
    118.    A selection process that relies on head teachers and village council in a transparent setting is far
    from perfect; but is likely to be better than having the selection made by an external, arms-length agency
    with no personal knowledge of the people being selected.

    119.    Promoting strategies for a better environment and tackling problems hindering girls' full
    participation in secondary education access need to be encouraged.

    On Capacity building

    120.    Skills of staff and communities need to be upgraded and structures need to be created so as that
    allow for substantial community participation.

    121.    Partly based on the positive experiences gained from HRDP and social sector support strategy at
    national level, the other aim of such programmes should be strengthening the directorates of planning and
    human resources development, the education provision and the support institutions with particular
    emphasis put on development of management capacity.




                                                          - 68 -

Appendix I: Statistics and Data Related to CEF

       Table 1: Progressive Increment of Schools under CEF
                                (1995-2001)
   DISTRICT             1995   1996  1997  1998  1999      2000     2001 Total
   KIBAHA                  4     6     36     0      1         0       1   48
   KILOSA                  -    11     30    60    81                 -1  183
   MTWARA                  -    10     20    30    24          0       0   84
   S'WANGA(U)              -      -    20    21      5         0       0   46
   LINDI (U)               -      -     -    13      0         0       0   13
   KILOMBERO               -      -     -     -       -     101        0  101
   MOROGOR RURAL           -      -     -     -       -     247        0  247
   KIGOMA RURAL            -      -     -     -       -      79        0   79
   LINDI RURAL             -      -     -     -       -      95        0   95
   RUFIJI                  -      -     -     -       -      96        0   96
   TABORA (U)              -      -     -     -       -      60        0   60
   DODOMA (U)              -      -     -     -       -      65        0   65
   MWANZA (U)              -      -     -     -       -      60        0   60
   MUSOMA (U)              -      -     -     -       -      20        0   20
   BUKOBA RURAL            -      -     -     -       -     214        0  214
   SHINYANGA RURAL         -      -     -     -       -     231        0  231
   TOTAL                   4    27    106   124   111      1270        0 1642




                      Table 2: Trend of Government and Parental Funds To CEF
                                   Schools (Tshs. `000') 1996-2001
                   YEAR            Average amount            Average amount parental
                            Government grant per       contribution per school (Tsh.
                                             school                             000)
                   1996'                       219                               219
                   1997'                       482                               482
                   1998                        655                               538
                   1999'                       808                               505
                   2000'                      1095                               759
                   2001                       1591                              1257




   Figure 1: Trend of Government and Parental Funds to
            CEF Schools (Tshs 000") 1996-2001

   2000

                                                Average amount Govt.
   1500                                         grant per school


   1000                                         Average amount
                                                parental contribution

     500                                        per school



      0
          1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001

                        YEAR




                                    - 69 -

              Table: 3 Community Contributions Per Pupil
Year                              1996 1997 1998       1999 2000 2001
Unit Contribution Tshs           1,115 1,276 1,302     1,646 3,007 3,857




                        Figure 2: Unit Contribution Tshs


            4,500

            4,000

            3,500

            3,000

            2,500
        Tsh 2,000

            1,500

            1,000

              500

                0
                    1996      1997    1998      1999     2000         2001

                                          year
                                                          Unit Contribution Tshs




           Table 4: Net Enrolment Ratios (NER)
                        1996 1997 1998 1999 2000            2001
    National              56.3  56.7    57  57.1    59.5     65.5
    CEF Districts         53.8  49.1  52.2  56.6    66.4     78.1




                Figure 3: Net Enrolment Ratios (NER)

100
 80
 60                                                                      National
 40                                                                      CEF Districts
 20
  0
       1996        1997      1998    1999    2000     2001

                                 year




                                       - 70 -

          Table 5: Percentage Increase in Enrolment 1998-2001

                                                            Non-CEF
                                       CEF Districts          Districts
                   1998 & 1999                     7.17             2.39
                   1999 & 2000                     7.28             8.11
                   2000 & 2001                   15.44              3.53
                   1998 & 2001                   30.24            14.71




          Figure 4: Percentage Increase in Enrolment
    35

    30

    25

    20
                                                                              CEF Districts
     15
                                                                              Non-CEF Districts
     10

     5

     0
            1998 & 1999    1999 & 2000     2000 & 2001    1998 & 2001

                                     Years




                     Table 6: % Age of those Scoring A-C in PSLE

YEAR                          1996      1997   1998    1999    2000   2001

CEF Districts                 20.9       22.5   22.1     22    23.8     35

Non CEF Districts             13.4       15.2   18.4   15.6    19.6   28.2




            Figure 5: % Age of Those Scoring A-C in PSLE                  CEF Districts

                                                                          Non CEF Districts

    40

    35

    30

    25

    20

    15

    10

     5

     0
             1996       1997         1998       1999        2000       2001
                                          YEAR




                                            - 71 -

                       Table 7 CEF Drop Out Rates 1995-2001

YEAR                   1995       1996     1997     1998   1999      2000  2001

CEF Districts           2.4        2.2        2      1.9     1.3       1.8  1.5

Non CEF District        2.2        1.7      2.7      2.8     2.3       1.9  2.3

National                6.3        6.3      6.7      6.6     4.8       5.8  5.5




                Figure 6: Trend on Drop Out Rates: Primary

    8


    7


    6


    5

                                                                              CEF Districts
    4
                                                                              Non CEF District
    3
                                                                              National
    2


    1


    0

          1995     1996       1997     1998     1999     2000      2001

                                      year




                                            - 72 -

Appendix II Statistics and Data Related to GSES

     Table 8: GSES Girls in school and other Institutions Enrollment Trend 1996-2005

             YEAR    FORM     FORM        FORM     FORM          OTHER
                       I       I- IV        V       V-VI      INSTITUTIONS     HIGHER    TOTAL
                                                             VETA        TTC  LEARNING

             1996      392         392         -        -          -        -          -   392
             1997      364         756         -        -          -        -          -   756
             1998      628        1325         -        -          -        -          -   1325
             1999      641        1983         -        -          -        -          -   1983
             2000     1275        2864        15       15          -        -          -   2879
             2001     1459        3849        17       32        43         -          -   3924
             2002        -        3217        31       48         5        32       11*    3308
             2003        -        2370        48       79         2        64    10(21)*   2539
             2004        -        1162       148      196          -       61    22(43)*   1464
             2005        -         258       150      298                 109              665
                                                                                          19203




                        Table 9 : Trend of GSES Enrollments 1996-2001

                                           FORM I                 FORM I-IV

                  Year            Number enrolled               Total number

                  1996                        392                        392

                  1997                        364                        756

                  1998                        628                       1325

                  1999                        641                       1983

                  2000                       1275                       2744

                  2001                       1459                       3882




                 Table 10 GSES Drop Out Rates 1998-2001


          YEAR              1998        1999     2000     2001      2002     2003  2004
          GSES Girls           4.1        2.7     1.2        1.5       1.3    1.4    1.2




                                              - 73 -

                         Figure 7: Trend of GSES Enrollments 1996-2001


        4500

        4000

        3500

        3000

        2500

        2000                                                                           FORMI

        1500                                                                           FORM I-IV

        1000

         500

          0

                         1996     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001

                                                Year




Table 11: GSES`O' Level Performance for 1999-2004

     YEARS                       I    II III      IV           0 TOTAL
     1999                        0     3    8    172        105         288
     2000                        0     2 11      139          89        241
     2001                        1     5 28      263        179         476
     2002                        2     6 35      251        112         406
     2003                        5 27 130        547        153         862
     2004                        6 18 113        575        100         812
       GSES `A' Level Performance for 2002-2004
                                   Division 'A' Level
     YEAR                        I    II III      IV           0 Total
     2002                        5     5    5       0          0      15
     2003                        5     6    6       0          0      17
     2004                       10 10       8       2          0      30
     2005                        8 15 16            5          0      44




                                  GSES Drop Out Rates 1998-2004

                     4.5

                       4

                     3.5

                       3

                     2.5

                       2

                      1.5
           Percentage   1

                     0.5

                       0
                             1998     1999    2000    2001    2002    2003      2004


                                                      Year             GSESGirls




                                                  - 74 -

     Figure 9: GSES 'O' Level performance for 1999-2004


1000


 900


 800


 700


 600
                                                                         I

 500                                                                     II

 400                                                                     III

                                                                         IV
 300
                                                                         0
 200
                                                                         Tot al

 100


   0

        1999      2000      2001         2002      2003        2004


                                 Year




          Figure 10: GSES 'A' LEVEL PERFORMANCE FOR 2002-2004


   50

   45

   40                                                                 2002
   35

   30                                                                 2003
   25

   20                                                                 2004
   15                                                                 2004
   10

    5

    0
          I        II      III         IV        0       Total

                          Division A Level




                                    - 75 -

Appendix III: Policy Related Studies and Consultancies



  Study                                       Date    Cost in     Authors       Comments
                                                       US #
1 Interim project evaluation                  1997    40,800        Sumra        Available
  Preparation of PIP (Project Implementation) 1997    20,400     PSG/MOEC        Available
3 Preparation of PIP (Project Implementation  1997     16,800    PSG/MOEC        Available
4 Project Impact evaluation                   1998    38,924        Sumra        Available
5 NECTA and MOEC Computerization              1998    23,500       ESAMI         Available
6 Accounting and Financial Management         1998     60,015  MN Information    Available
  system
7 Project Impact Evaluation                   1999    32,500      Galabawa       Available
8 Four Ed-SDP Inhouse Studies                 1999     74,199
9 Redesign and production of Scannable        1999     40,192     COSEKE         Available
  instrument
1 NECTA/MOEC Implementation Plan              1999     63,291      ESAMI         Available
0 preparation
11Interruption of Studies of secondary school 1998     5,000      Malekela       Available
  girls
1 Household surveys for project monitoring    1999    150,000  Statistic Burrow
2                                                                 KOWKI
1 Project impact evaluation                   1999    35,000      Galabawa       Available
3
1 Project impact evaluation                  2000/1   42,500        Sumra        Available
4
1 NECTA Computer System                      2000/1   52,625         Y2K         Michael &
5                                                                                Garina
1 Mainstreaming study                        2000/1   103,991      Komba         Available
6
1 Education Sector Status Report             2001/2   103,370  Galabawa et al    Available
7
1 Education Sector Strategy Paper             2001    47,703    Galabawa and     Available
8                                                                  Kilindo
1 Review of secondary school selection        1999     No Pay     In house       Available
9 system
2 Constraints to the Expansion secondary      1996     5,000    Mwenisongole     Available
0 education
2 Capacity building for Education ministries  2002     10,000       Mosha        Available
1
2 Strategies for improvement of education     2003     10,000       Omari        Available
2 quality




                                                - 76 -

Appendix IV: School Enrollment Between 1998-2001

                            1998                   1999                 2000

S/No District        Boys   Girls  Total    Boys   Girls  Total  Boys   Girls  Total

 1   Bukoba (R)      29523 32347   61870   28618  28154   56772  28963  28151  57114

 2   Dodoma (M)      18883 19441   38324   19532  20219   39751  19904 20397   40301

 3   Kibaha          8649   8649   17334    9473   9196   18669  9850   9944   19794

 4   Kigoma (R)      20733 19000   39733   21213  19597   40810  27400  25148  52548

 5   Kilombero       17008 16806   33814   17905  17829   35734  18553  18987  37540

 6   Kilosa          24624 35349   49973   26428  27305   53733  28935 29395   58330

 7   Lindi (R)       10108 10578   20686    9774  10144   19918  10599  10440  21039

 8   Lindi (U)       2623   2829   5452     2676   2810   5486   2644   2785   5429

 9   Morogoro (R)    34857 32487   67344   36055  33357   69412  37313 34706   72019

 10  Mtwara          9000   8079   17079    8937   7960   16897  10214  8637   18851

 11  Musoma (U)      8007   8089   16096    7996   8154   16150  8548   8788   17336

 12  Mwanza (M)      23142 23769   46911   24225  25336   49561  28392 28635   57027

 13  Rufiji          8751   8245   16996    8727   8231   16958  10825  11478  22303

 14  Shinyanga (R)   22033 22097   44130   32711  32588   65299  35879  33117  68996

 15  Sumbawanga (U)  8918   9171   18089    9285   9442   18727  9607   9770   19377

 16  Tabora (U)      12427 12603   25030   12876  13319   26195  12630  12920  25550

           Total    259286 259575 518861   276431 273641 550072 300256 293298 593554




                                    - 77 -

      Appendix V: Capacity Building as of December 2001


S/N     District          No of schools Reg/Dist  No. of    No.  No.    Village   Head     School    No. of    Members

 o                                        r.      WECs       of   of  Chairperson  of    Committee   councilor  Schoo

                                        Officials          WEOs  VEOs             School chairperson    s      Committ

                                                                                              s

       1        Bukoba        214         17        6        2    8       12       39        28         4

                (R)

       2        Dodoma        65          26       12        13   15      30       65        45         3

                (M)

       3        Kibaha        47           8        9        2    4       23       42        32         1



       4        Kigoma        79           4       13        14   23      33       52        40         0

                (R)

       5        Kilomber      101         19        8        9    12      15       53        30         6

                o

       6        Kilosa        182         29       35        4    12      121      182      172        14



       7        Lindi (R)     95          13       16        13   26      55       63        47        14



       8        Lindi (U)      13          9        6        11   0       13       13         8         8



       9        Morogoro      247         18       30        15   16      63       121      100         9

                (R)

       1        Mtwara        84           8       12        8    36      44       44        46         3

       0        ®



       1        Musoma        20           9       21        10   0       37       39        23        16

       1        (U)



       1        Mwanza        60          13       12        4    8       49       91        65         2

       2        City



       1        Rufiji        96          10        3        3    1        7       27         5         0

       3




                                                        - 78 -

1    Shinyang   231    20    22      0    9     0     172    40    0

4    a (R)



1    Sumbawa    46     9     10      7    1     2     31     20    2

5    nga (U)



1    Tabora     60     14    14      12   0     35    47     37    12

6    (M)



       Total   1640    226   229    127  171   539   1081   738    94




                                - 79 -

Appendix VI Some Key Indicators for Project Implementation

 DCA SCHEDULE 2      COMPONENT                INDICTOR            TARGET AT      STATUS AS OF
                     DESCRIPTION                                  PROJECT           AUG. 2002
                                                                 COMPLETION
     Part A1      Provision of Matching    Number of primary         500               1,642
                    Grants to Primary      school provided with
                         Schools            Matching Grants
     Part A1         Raising overall       Number of pupils in     400,000            685,119
                        enrolment             CEF schools
     Part A1       Improving learning     # of classrooms built        -               1,554
                      environment          # of T/houses built         -                420
                                                                                      11,726
                                           # of desks procured         -

     Part A1      Improving resources of  Increase of per pupil                  Per pupil available
                    non salary school      available resources                  resources increased
                  development activities                                          form Tsh. 3,857
     Part A1       Improving academic      Percentage of those                  Percentage of those
                      Performance             passing PSLE                          scoring A-C
                                                                                increased form 20.9
                                                                                       to 35
     Part A4       Production of CEF           Frequency                               Once
                       Newsletter
     Part B1       Provision of Bursary    Number of bursary        3,000              4,759
                     for Secondary
                  education to girls from
                    poor households
     Part B2      Reduction in drop out    Drop out rates girls    Lowered        Drop out rates
                          rates                                                  dropped form 4.1%
                                                                                      to 1.2%
     Part B4       Provision of Science         # of sets            100               100%
                        equipment
     Part B5       Production of GSES          Frequency               -               Twice
                       Newsletter
     Part C1-3      Training District      # of districts to be   5 districts     16 districts see
                    Officials, Primary           covered                             table 13




                                            - 80 -

Appendix VII: Improvement of Teaching/Learning Physical Environment
1998-2001


                  Activity           1998         1999    2000      2001
     Classrooms constructed            66         158      520       810
     Class rehabilitated              151         227      665       925
     Teachers houses constructed       25          36      154       205
     Teachers houses rehabilitated     7           37      146       196
     Toilets constructed              184         1102     1961     1698
     Desks procured                   2412        816     3420      5078
     Books procured                   100         1995    48487    223301
     Exercise books procured         216073      29778    460083   1510249




                                            - 81 -

           APPENDIX VIII


  CEF COSTS (USD)
                                             1995               1996                 1997                   1998                   1999                 2000               2001              2002         2003
Direct costs
Community                                 3,108,91        24,025.86           123,914.39             211,444.26              314,472.26         1,168,776.51        2,341,925.82
Government Grants                         3,108,91        24,129.31           125,343.90             239,670.53              352,347.27         1,188,469.79        2,464,650.62
Indirect Costs                            6,217.81        48,155.17           249,258.29             451,114.79              666,819.53         2,357,246.31        4,806,576.44
Capacity Building                       275,710.00        275,710.00          275,710.00             275,710.00              275,710.00           275,710.00          275,710.00
Policy Development planning
and Research                            424,290.00        424,290.00          424,290.00             424,290.00              424,290.00           424,290.00          424,290.00

                                        712,435.63        796,310.34       1,198,516.58            1,602,229.58           1,033,639.06          5,414,492.61       10,313,152.89

GSERS COSTS(Costs)                                        79,087.76           267,579.52             441,794.62              628,975.73           771,823.44          865,569.41       733,133.87
Girls Bursaries                                           79,087.76           267,579.52             441,794.62              628,975.73           771,823.44          865,569.41       733,133.87
                                        712,435.63        875,398.10       1,466,096.11               2,044,024
GRAND TOTAL (Costs)

CEF BENEFITS
1* increment in income form
completing primary school                        -                 -                      -                      -                     -                    -                            52778.00    166,616.57    666,516.5

2* Social benefits of a girl
attending 7 years of school                      -                 -                      -                      -                     -                    -                  -          6,779.70    18,163.41      68,153.4

3* Social benefit of a girl
attending 4 years of secondary                   -                 -                      -                      -                     -                    -                  -          2,956.80    46,469.51    133,723.9

                                                 -                 -                      -                      -                     -                    -                  -        62,514.50    231,249.49    868,393.8

GSES BENEFITS
1* increment in income form
completing primary school                        -                 -                      -                      -                     -          116,000.00          206,280.00       313,470.00    513,470.00    701,100.0

2* Social benefits of a girl
attending 7 years of school                      -                 -                      -                      -                     -               375.90             725.00          1,289.20     1,959.20

3* Social benefit of a girl
attending 4 years of secondary                   -                 -                      -                      -                     -             1,478.40           2,851.20          4,997.10     7,478.70      12,280.0

                                                 -                 -                      -                      -                     -          117,854.30          209,856.20       319,756.30    522,907.90    716,587.2
GRAND TOTAL (Benefits)                           -                 -                      -                      -                     -          117,854.30          209,856.20       382,270.80    754,157.39   1,584,981.0


                          Notes:

                          1* Number of CEF/GSES GIRL graduates minus dropout times estimated difference in income between someone with no education and a primary/secondary school graduate

                          2* Number of CEF.GSES graduates minus dropout times 10% of income benefits that a person receives from completing primary secondary school

                          3* Number of CEF/GSES graduates minus dropout time one half the value of social benefits of education in Kenya estimated in summer (1994)




                                                                                                                 - 82 -

CEF COSTS (USD)
                                      2019             2020            2021            2022             2023             2024             2025            2026
Direct costs
Community
             Government
             Grants
             Indirect
             Costs
             Capacity
             Building
             Policy
             Developmen
             t
             Planning and
             Research
             Sub-Total


             GSES
             COSTS
             (USD)
             Girls
             Bursaries
                 Sub-total
             GRAND
             TOTAL(Co
             sts)


             CEF
             BENEFITS
             1*Increment       18,235,973.71   18,235,973.71   18,235,973.71   18,235,973.71    18,235,973.71    18,235,973.71    18,235,973.71   18,183,195.71    18,183,195.71
             in income
             from
             completing
             primary
             school
             2*Increment         1,820,101.96   1,820,101.96   1,820,101.96    1,820,101.96     1,820,101.96     1,820,101.96     1,820,101.96    1,820,101.96     11,820,101.96
             in income
             from
             improved
             primary
             school
             quality
             3*Social            2,054,571.91   2,054,571.91   2,054,571.91    2,054,571.91     2,054,571.91     2,054,571.91     2,054,571.91    2,054,571.91     2,054,571.91
             benefits if a
             girl attending
             7 years of
             school
                Sub-Total      22,110,647.58   22,110,647.58   22,110,647.58   22,110,647.58    22,110,647.58    22,110,647.58    22,110,647.58   22,110,647.58    22,110,647.58


             GSES
             BENEFITS
             1*Increment          669,170.00     669,170.00      669,170.00      669,170.00       669,170.00       669,170.00       669,170.00      669,170.00       669,170.00
             in income
             from
             completing
             secondary
             school
             2*Increment             4,182.30      4,182.30        4,182.30        4,182.30         4,182.30         4,182.30         4,182.30        4,182.30         4,182.30
             in income
             from
             improved
             secondary
             school
             quality
             3*Social              13,652.00      13,652.00       13,652.00       13,652.00        13,652.00        13,652.00        13,652.00       13,652.00        13,652.00
             benefits of a
             girl attending
             4 years of
             secondary
             school
                 Sub-total        687,004.30     687,004.30      687,004.30      687,004.30       687,004.30       687,004.30       687,004.30      687,004.30       687,004.30
        GRAND TOTAL           22,797,651.88    22,797,651.88   22,797,651.88   22,797,651.88    22,797,651.88    22,797,651.88    22,797,651.88   22,797,651.88    22,797,651.88
(Benefits)




                                                                                  - 83 -

CEF COSTS (USD)
                                  2030             2031            2032            2033            2034           2035           2036            2037           2038
Direct costs
Community
               Govern
               ment
               Grants
               Indire
               ct
               Costs
               Capaci
               ty
               Buildin
               g
               Policy
               Develo
               pment
               Planni
               ng and
               Resear
               ch
               Sub-T
               otal


               GSES
               COST
               S
               (USD)
               Girls
               Bursari
               es
               Sub-to
                     tal
               GRAN
               D
               TOTA
               L(Cost
               s)


               CEF
               BENE
               FITS
               1*Incr       18,235,973.71  18,235,973.71   18,235,973.71   18,235,973.71   18,235,973.71  18,235,973.71  18,235,973.71   18,183,195.71  17,469.357.14   16,969,457
               ement
               in
               income
               from
               comple
               ting
               primar
               y
               school
               2*Incr       1,820,101.96    1,820,101.96   1,820,101.96    1,820,101.96    1,820,101.96    1,820,101.96   1,820,101.96   1,813,322.06    1,801,938.35   1,751,948
               ement
               in
               income
               from
               improv
               ed
               primar
               y
               school
               quality
               3*Soci       2,054,571.91    2,054,571.91   2,054,571.91    2,054,571.91    2,054,571.91    2,054,571.91   2,054,571.91   2,054,571.91    2,051,615.11   2,008,102
               al
               benefit
               s if a
               girl
               attendi
               ng 7
               years
               of
               school
                Sub-T       22,110,647.58  22,110,647.58   22,110,647.58   22,110,647.58   22,110,647.58  22,110,647.58  22,110,647.58   22,048,132.88  21,279,397.80   20,642,253
                   otal


               GSES
               BENE
               FITS
               1*Incr         669,170.00     578,890.00      471,700.00      269,700.00        82,07.00
               ement
               in




                                                                                  - 84 -

              income
              from
              comple
              ting
              second
              ary
              school
              2*Incr             4,182.30      3,833.20        3,269.00        2,599.00        1,351.00
              ement
              in
              income
              from
              improv
              ed
              second
              ary
              school
              quality
              3*Soci           13,652.00      12,279.20       10,133.30        7,651.70        2,850.40
              al
              benefit
              s of a
              girl
              attendi
              ng 4
              years
              of
              second
              ary
              school
              Sub-to          687,004.30     595,002.40      485,102.30      279,950.70       86,271.40
                   tal
      GRAND TOTAL         22,797,651.88    22,705,649.98   22,595,749.88   22,390,598.28   22,196,918.98  22,110,647.58  22,100,647.58   22,048,132.88  21,279,397.80   20,642,253
(Benefits)




                                                                                  - 85 -

Additional Annex 9. Map of Tanzania




                                     - 86 -

                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33494


                                                                          TANZANIA

                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                        PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                              RAILROADS

                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                               PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                        RIVERS                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                       30°E                        32°E                      34°E                         36°E                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                     To
                                                                                     To
0°                                                                                                                              endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                    Tororo                                                                                                            0°
                                                 To
                                                 To
                        UGANDAKampala
                           To
                           To
                         Kampala                              Lake
                                 Kagera                                                                         To
                                                                                                                To
                                                            Victoria                                        Nakuru                                 K E N Y A
                                                   Bukoba            Musoma          Mara                                   To
                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                          Nakuru
                                       Buoen
                   RWANDA KAGERA                                                M A R A
2°S                                                                                                                                                                                                  2°S
                                                                                                      Lake
                                                          Mwanza                                     Natron
  ToKama                                               M WA N Z A               Simiyu              A R U S H A        Kilimanjaro
                                                                                                                          (5895 m)
                   BURUNDI                                                                                     Arusha           Moshi
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                        Lake                                                                            Malindi
                                  Kibondo
                                       Moyowosi           Yalova
                                            S H I N YA N G A                           Eyasi               Lake
                                                                        Shinyanga                          Manyara
                                                      Kahama                                                                    Pangani  KILIMANJARO
                                                                     Nzega      Steppe                                                                                                               4°S
                                                                                                         Babati                       Same
  CONGO                  K I G O M A                                                                                     Masai                                                               PEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                                             NORTH
                           Kasulu                                                                                        Steppe
                     Kigoma                                                       Singida
       OF.                                        Kaliua                                                  Kondoa
                                                                 Tabora Iwembere  SINGIDA                                                                                       Wete         PEMBA
                                                                                                                                                                     Tanga                   SOUTH

                                                    TA B O R A                                                                             TA N G A                             Mkoani       ZANZIBAR
          REP           Lake                Ugalla                                            Manyoni                                                                                        NORTH

                        Tanganyika                                                                       DODOMA                         Mts.                           Mkokotoni             ZANZIBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                             SOUTH &
                                                                                                                                                        Zanzibar         Koani               CENTRAL
                              Mpanda                                                                                                        Wamimi
                                                                                                    D O D O M A                             Wa                                               ZANZIBAR
             DEM.                                                                                                           Nguru
                                                                                                                              Morogoro                 Kibaha                                WEST
                                 R U K W A                                                                                                                              Dar Es Salaam
                                                       Rungwa                                                Great       MOROGORO                                           DAR ES SALAAM

                                                                                                                       Ruaha                            P WA N I
                                                           Lake                                          Iringa
8°S                           Sumbawanga                   Rukwa  M B E Y AangeR              I R I N G A                                             Utete                                          8°S

                                                    Mpui             Mbeya                                                                Rufiji                                INDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                           Kilwa
                                                                 Mbeya                                      Kilombero                               Matandu                Kivinje


                                                                 Tunduma
                                               To
                                               To
                                          Kasama                                  Kipengere                                                                                     OCEAN
                                                                                            Njombe
                                                                                                                                                        L I NuD I

10°S

                                                         To
                                                         To
                                                        Kasama                               Range                                                      Mbemkur                  Lindi              10°S
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mtwara

                   ZAMBIA
                                                                             To
                                                                             To                        Songea                                                 Masasi
                                                             TANZANIAKasungu
                                                                            Lake                      R U V U M A                                  MTWARA
                                                                                                                                        Tunduru
                                                                        Malawi                                                                          Ruvuma


                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                   Chiúre
                                                                                                                                                                   Chiúre

                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                      To                                                                            12°S

                                                                                               To
                                                                                               To                    Marrupa   MOZAMBIQUE
                                                                                            Lichinga


                                                                                                                            0       50     100     150    200 Kilometers



                                                   32°E                      34°E                         36°E              0             50        100         150 Miles         40°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                 JULY 2005

