Report No. PIC3429
Project Name              Tanzania-Human Resource Development Pilot...
Project I
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Human Resources
Project ID number         TZPA2789
Borrower                  Government of Tanzania
Implementing Agency       Prime Minister's Office / Local Government
P. 0. Box 3021, Dar es Salaam
Date This PID Prepared    February 5, 1996
Project Appraisal Date    March 1996
Projected Board Date      August 1996
1.   Country and sector background.   Although Tanzania remains one of
the poorest countries in the world, with estimated per capita GDP in
1993 of only $90, there has been steady growth in the economy since
adjustment began in 1984. Even with population growth of about 2.8
percent per year, there was a substantial increase in per capita income
in the last half of the 1980s, with continued but slower growth in the
1990s. The resumption of economic growth over the past decade has
substantially improved living conditions for the majority of the poor in
Tanzania, resulting in fewer people living in poverty in the 1990s
relative to the 1980s.
2.   Growth has been accompanied by greater inequality.    The very poor
appear to have fallen behind. What little evidence we have on how this
could have happened points to the maldistribution of human capital and
rural infrastructure as the main culprits. Moreover, despite steady
income growth and substantial investments to improve the supply of
social services, indicators of basic human welfare have been stagnant or
worsening compared to levels in the late 1970s or early 1980s. The
Tanzania Social Sector Review concluded that improving on low enrolents
and poor quality of both primary and secondary schooling, coupled with
improved performance of girls in school, are the highest priority areas
for intervention to reverse the apparent stagnation in human capital
investment.
3.   Enrolent in primary schools has dropped from 100 percent in 1980 to
less than 70 percent in the early 1990s. Tanzania's secondary enrolent
rate 5 percent as recently as 1990 is one of the two lowest in the
world. How to get more children, especially girls, into school earlier
is the first problem (quantity). How to make sure schools are effective
in keeping them there and providing a good education is the second
problem (quality). This project takes aim at these problems.
4.   Project objectives.   This is a three-year pilot project to assist
the government to implement elements of its social sector strategy and
education policy, with a substantial evaluation component informing
decisions following this pilot stage about proceeding with the reforms



nationally. The project should increase high pay-off human capital
investments by raising enrolents in primary school; improving the
quality of primary schooling; and increasing enrolents in secondary
schools (particularly for girls). These objectives will be accomplished
by supporting the government's strategy: increasing available
resources; tilting the balance of inputs towards materials and supplies;
supporting decentralization of authority to schools, communities, and
districts; encouraging private sector participation in the provision of
education services (particularly at the secondary level); promoting
higher quality standards; and moving resources closer to the household
to promote greater accountability to and participation by households.
The project is also intended to lay some of the groundwork for a broader
sector lending approach in subsequent operations.
5.   Project description.   The project will have the following
components:
a)   The Community Education Fund Pilot component is a matching grant
program for primary schools designed to increase enrolent, improve the
quality of schooling, and increase parental and community involvement in
monitoring school performance. During the pilot phase financed under
this project, the government's contribution to the primary school will
remain unchanged to avoid disruption. The pilot will only add funds at
the margin in the following manner: (a) district authorities and school
personnel will open school bank accounts if necessary; (b) schools will
prepare annual plans, which will be approved by the appropriate body;
(c) the school will raise as much money as it can from parents based on
this plan; (d) the pilot project will match these contributions using a
formula based on the average income of the community; (e) the project
will audit school performance; and (f) participation in subsequent years
will be partially dependent on achieving planned goals.
b)   The Girls' Secondary Education Support Pilot is a school-based
scholarship (or bursary) program for girls, with funds channeled through
schools. The project may also support counseling, gender training for
teachers, other gender-related software, and incentives for schools to
improve the environment and the academic performance of female students.
c)   An implicit part of the Government's Social Sector Strategy is to
reorient the central ministries to an output and policy orientation
rather than providing inputs and otherwise managing all aspects the
school system. In addition, the pilot nature of this project requires
considerable investment in policy analysis, operations research,
information gathering and dissemination to consumers, and repeated
beneficiary assessments. The Policy, Operations Research, and
Beneficiary Assessment component of the project will assist in creating
and/or expanding the institutional capacity inside and outside
government to carry out these functions. It will fund evaluation and
monitoring of the pilots.
6.   Project financing.   The project is being built upon an existing
system, so the costs are calculated as marginal additions to the current
educational system. Total pilot program costs are estimated to be $22.5
million equivalent. IDA will finance 71 percent of direct program
costs; additional governmental contributions will finance 4 percent of
costs; and additional parental cash contributions will finance percent
- 2 -



of costs.
7.   Project implementation.   The project will be implemented over a
three-year period (1997-2000). The government has proposed that an
inter-agency pilot implementation unit (PIU) be established that will
coordinate activities across ministries and either survive or perish
with the pilots. The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) will
provide technical and administrative support. Primary and secondary
schools (public and nongovernment), school committees/boards, the
District Education Office, and parents will be fully engaged in this
project with clearly defined roles. A Project Steering Committee,
including various agencies and stakeholders, will provide policy
guidance on implementation and review the management and implementation
of the project.
8.   Project sustainability.   The focus of this project is investments
in human capital. Parents and government will provide a larger share of
the incremental funds than is typically the case in a social sector
project. The IDA-financed injection of funds is designed to increase
sustainability by providing an incentive for parents to mobilize
additional resources and, through the school plan and parental
participation in funding decisions, to increase parents' ability to
influence school decisions. We expect that continuing IDA support on a
declining basis, coupled with sustained economic growth, will help to
institutionalize this mechanism, which will allow parents and the
government to replace IDA funds.
9.   At the secondary level, the scholarship program will create a
mechanism through which schools, communities, the central government,
and donors can target cash subsidies to specific students. Most
importantly, sustainability of these investments in human capital will
be seen in future generations, as (a) prospects for growth are improved,
(b) equity in the distribution of the stock of human capital improves,
and (c) parents commit themselves to secure even more education for
their children than they themselves received.
10. The design of this project was developed through a participatory
process involving stakeholders at all levels, including households that
will be the main beneficiaries of the project. The design of the
project also will stimulate stakeholder participation during
implementation. The sense of ownership created is expected to
contribute to the sustainability of the project.
11. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector. The
Bank Group has financed seven projects in the education sector in
Tanzania, beginning in the 1960s. A portfolio review provided several
lessons for the current project design and implementation. First,
disbursements have been low. This project is designed to make it
feasible to reach a higher level of disbursements by unbundling bulky
central disbursements for works and equipment, and moving smaller
decisions down through the chain to the school level. Second, prior
projects have been administratively complex. In this project,
administrative complexity has been reduced by focusing on just three
carefully identified high-impact investment activities, one at the
primary level and one at the secondary level, with an investment in
- 3 -



monitoring and evaluation to support these two interventions. Third,
project design and implementation was centralized, with little
opportunity for the ultimate beneficiaries to influence the way the
funds were spent. Implementation of this pilot project is at the school
level. The project will assure that beneficiaries have clear channels
to place demands effectively on managers and school authorities to
follow through on their commitments made in the school plan.
12. Poverty Category. The project meets both criteria for the Program
of Targeted Interventions. First, the project has specific mechanisms
for targeting the poor; and second, the population of project
beneficiaries has a significant larger proportion of poor people than
the country's population as a whole.
13. Environmental Aspects. No significant negative environmental
impact is envisaged in the project. While some of the matching grant
funds will be used for construction of classrooms or latrines, none of
the activity is foreseen to have a negative impact on the environment.
During construction, schools will be monitored by the district
authorities. District authorities will ensure that building guidelines
are being followed and that they do not entail any environmental risks.
14. In the long run, the project is expected to have a positive impact
on the environment. Increased education levels will, among others: (i)
lower fertility rates and thus reduce environmental pressures associated
with rapid population growth; (ii) increase economic capacity of
households to produce more educated farmers; and (iii) produce better-
off farmers, which will be more receptive to learn and undertake land
conservation techniques. The environmental rating of C is proposed.
15. Program Objective Category. The program objective category is
primary and secondary education.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



