Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2820 VN
                       Development Credit Agreement
                       (Power Development Project)
                                 between
                      SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated February 26, 1996
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2820 VN
                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1996, between  SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM  (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by Electricity of
Viet Nam (EVN) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EVN the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and EVN;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications  set forth below (the
Page  2
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
            otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
            on account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Bank or for
            goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
            United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Affected Person" means a person who on account of
the execution of Part A of the Project had or would have (a)
his standard of living adversely affected; or (b) his right,
title or interest in any house, land  (including premises,
agricultural and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable
asset acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (c)
his business, occupation, work or place of residence or habitat
adversely affected, and "Affected Persons" means collectively
all persons who qualify as an Affected Person.
      (b)  "Charter" means the Charter of the organization and
operation of Electricity of Viet Nam, issued under Decree
562/TTg of the Prime Minister of the Borrower, dated October
10, 1994, governing the organization and operations of EVN.
       (c)  "EA" means the Environmental Assessment for the
Project approved by the Borrower on November 29, 1995.
      (d)   "EVN" means Electricity of Viet Nam, an
enterprise established pursuant to Decree No.14/CP of the
Government of the Borrower , dated  January 27, 1995.
       (e)  "Legal and Regulatory Framework Study" means the
study of the legal and regulatory framework for the Borrower's
power sector proposed to be carried out by the Joint UNDP/World
Bank Energy Sector Management Program.
       (f)  "Phu My-2 Phase 2" means the proposed second phase
development of the Phu My-2 Power Station.
      (g)   "Power Development Program" means the Borrower's ten-
year power development program and the associated five-year
implementation plan and financing plan in respect thereof, for
the efficient expansion and development of its power generation
and transmission systems.
      (h)   "Power Sector Institutional Strengthening Study"
means the study of the institutional structure and commercial
systems of the power companies in the Socialist Republic of
Viet Nam undertaken pursuant to Japanese Grant Agreement
(TF22753) dated May 18, 1995 entered into between the Borrower
and the Bank acting as Administrator of grant funds provided by
Japan.
      (i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EVN of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
Page  3
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
       (j)  "RAP" means the Resettlement Action Plan dated
November 16, 1995, and approved by the Ministry of Industry of
the Borrower on December 4, 1995, for carrying out the
compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of each Affected
Person under the  Project, as such plan may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
      (k)   "Rural Electrification Study" means the study
proposed to be carried out by EVN under Part G of the Project
with respect to the development of the rural electrification
system in Viet Nam.
      (l)   "Special Account" means the account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
      (m)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EVN pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time , and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred twenty one million Special
Drawing Rights (SDR  121,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment.   Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
Page  4
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on  June 15 and  December 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each  June 15 and December
15 commencing June 15, 2006 and ending December 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, shall cause EVN to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the
obligations of EVN therein set forth, shall take and cause to
be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable EVN to perform such obligations, and
Page  5
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall relend  the proceeds of the Credit
to EVN  under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EVN, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, which shall
include:  (i) interest at a rate of six  and nine tenth of one
percent (6.9%) per annum on the principal amount so relent and
withdrawn by EVN and outstanding from time to time; and (ii)
repayment over a period of twenty (20) years, including a grace
period of five (5) years, of the equivalent in dollars at the
time of repayment of the respective SDR amounts withdrawn from
time to time from the Credit Account.
       (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of
Sections 3.01(a) and 6.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall: (a) notify, or cause EVN to notify, promptly, the
Association of:  (i) any proposal to amend, suspend or repeal
the Charter; or (ii) any other proposal to change the
structure, organization, powers  or responsibilities of EVN
which may affect its ability to carry out its obligations under
the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and (b) afford the Association, or cause EVN to afford the
Association, as the case may be, an adequate opportunity to
comment on any such proposal prior to taking any action
thereon.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods  and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
2 to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by
EVN pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
             (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                   accordance with sound accounting practices,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Association has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year
                   in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                   Account was made; and
           (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
Page  6
                   examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
             (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                   the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than nine
                   months after the end of each such year the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Association
                   shall have reasonably requested, including a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                   the statements of expenditure submitted during
                   such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                   and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals; and
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records and
                   accounts and the audit thereof as the
                   Association shall from time to time reasonably
                   request.
                                ARTICLE V
                             Other Covenants
      Section 5.01.  Without limitation or restriction
upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall:
      (a)   by December 31, 1996,  prepare and furnish to the
Association,  for review and comment, the Borrower's proposed
Power Development Program;
      (b)   by December 31 of each succeeding year, prepare and
furnish to the Association, for its review and comments: (i) a
review of the implementation of the Power Development Program
during the preceding twelve months; (ii) its proposed
implementation program for the next five years; and (iii) a
review of the policy and levels of its electricity tariffs,
which review shall include proposed adjustments to said tariffs
to generate funds adequate to meet the requirements of the
carrying out of the Power Development Program; and
       (c)   carry out the Power Development Program, and implement
said proposed adjustments to tariffs, in each case taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
        Section 5.02.  The Borrower shall:
        (a)  promptly upon completion of the Rural Electrification
Study, furnish to the Association for its review and comment: (i)
the findings of said study and (ii) its proposals for the
implementation of said recommendations; and
        (b) thereafter implement said proposals in a timely manner,
taking into account the comments thereon of the Association.
        Section 5.03. The Borrower shall:
       (a) provide to the Association, for  comment, in each
case within 90 days of the completion of each study, its
Page  7
proposals for the implementation of the recommendations of (i)
the Power Sector Institutional Strengthening Study and (ii) the
Legal and Regulatory Framework Study; and
      (b)    thereafter in each case implement said proposals in
a timely manner, taking into account the comments thereon of
the Association.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   EVN shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that EVN will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   Decree No.14/CP of the Government of the Borrower
dated January 27,1995 or the Charter  shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of EVN to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of EVN or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are  specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EVN;
      (b)   the Association shall have received a satisfactory
certification of the latest gas reserve level of the Nam Con
Son  field  in the territory of the Borrower showing reserves
sufficient to be capable of supplying EVN with gas in amounts
required for the operation of the gas turbines to be installed
under Part A of the Project at full capacity for a period of at
least twenty (20) years; and
      (c)   EVN has entered into contractual arrangements
acceptable to the Association for the purchase of gas in
amounts sufficient for the operation of the gas turbines to be
installed under Part A of the Project at full capacity for a
period of at least  (5) years.
      Section 7.02. The following are specified as  additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Page  8
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association :
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
by EVN, and is legally binding upon EVN in accordance with its
terms;
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized by the Borrower and EVN and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and EVN in accordance with its terms; and
      (c)   that the RAP has been duly approved by the Ministry
of Industry of the Borrower and all necessary actions have been
taken to enable the RAP to be implemented in accordance with
its terms.
      Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Governor of the State Bank of Viet Nam
of the  Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            State Bank of Viet Nam
            49 Ly Thai To Street
            Hanoi
            Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   VIETBANK                412248 NHTWVT
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
            INDEVAS                        197688 (TRT),
            Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM
Page  9
                   By /s/ Le Van Bang
                                                  Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Russell J. Cheetham
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                                  SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods                      108,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory cost)
                                                 and 50% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items procured
                                                 locally
(2) Consultants'                 6,000,000       100%
    services
(3) Unallocated                  7,000,000
                               ___________
         TOTAL                 121,000,000
                               ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of  payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement  except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 10,000,000, may be made  on account of
payments made for expenditures before that date but after
October 1, 1995.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Page  10
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for: (a) consulting services by firms under
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (b)
consulting services by individuals under contracts costing less
than $50,000 equivalent each; in each case under such  terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to help meet rapid
growth in electricity demand in the southern region of the
Borrower's territories through the addition of new gas-fired
generating capacity; (b)  to increase high voltage transmission
capacity;  (c) to assist the Borrower in facilitating
independent power production on a competitively bid build-
operate-transfer basis;  (d) to assist in the formulation of a
national strategy and master plan for rural electrification;
and (e) to strengthen the planning, administrative and
management capabilities of EVN.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Increase in Generating Capacity
      Carrying out design and  engineering work  for the
proposed first phase 300 to 450 megawatt (MW) Phu My-2 Combined
Cycle power block (the first phase power block) of  the Phu My-
2 Power Station in Ba Ria-Vung Tau Province and installing two
100 to 150 MW gas turbines for the first phase power block.
Part B:  Increase in Transformation Capacity
      Increasing high voltage transformation capacity by
approximately 900 megavolt-ampere (MVA) , together with
associated switching and control facilities, in the southern
region of Viet Nam and approximately 1,350 MVA in other areas
of Viet Nam.
Part C:      Resettlement and Rehabilitation
      Resettlement and rehabilitation of  Affected Persons under
Part A of the Project.
Part D:    Hydropower Development
      Carrying out technical studies for a proposed hydropower
project at Dai Ninh.
Part E:    Development of Phu My-2  Phase 2
      Provision of experts to assist in the preparation of
arrangements for the development of the proposed second phase
Combined Cycle power block of the Phu My-2 Power Station on a
build-operate-transfer basis.
Part F:  Institutional Strengthening
      Strengthening  the organization, management and operations
of EVN, through the development and introduction of suitable
accounting and financial management systems, the implementation
of training programs, and the provision of appropriate computer
hardware and software.
Part G:  Power Sector Policy Framework Development
      Developing a master plan for rural electrification and
implementation program.
Page  11
                             **********
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories  (1)
and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for  the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to three million dollars ($ 3,000,000) to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)    (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Category, and
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
Page  12
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to  the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
Page  13
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
