Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2820 VN
                              Project Agreement
                         (Power Development Project)
                                   between
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                     and
                           ELECTRICITY OF VIET NAM
                           Dated February 26, 1996
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2820 VN
                              PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 26, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ELECTRICITY OF
VIET NAM (EVN).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even
date herewith between the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam (the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to one hundred twenty one million Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 121,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that
EVN agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and  EVN, the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to EVN on the terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS EVN, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                  ARTICLE I
                                 Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement,  and
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
                                 ARTICLE II
                           Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) EVN declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and
environmental and resettlement practices, and shall provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of  paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Association and EVN shall
otherwise agree, EVN shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Section 2.01 and except as the Association may otherwise
agree, EVN shall:
      (a)   not sell, lease, assign or otherwise dispose of any
of its assets which shall be required for the efficient
performance of its operations or which may prejudice its
ability to perform satisfactorily any of its obligations under
this Agreement; and
      (b)   not: (i) amend, suspend or repeal any provision of
the Charter; or (ii) make any change in its structure,
organization, powers or responsibilities which may materially
and adversely affect (A) its ability to perform any of its
obligations under this Agreement or (B) the operation of the
facilities established under the Project.
      Section 2.03.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) EVN shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, EVN shall:
             (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable
                   to the Association and furnish to the
                   Association not later than six (6) months after
                   the Closing Date or such later date as may be
                   agreed for this purpose between the Association
                   and EVN, a plan for the future operation of the
                   Project; and
Page  3
            (ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity
                   to exchange views with EVN on said plan.
      Section 2.05. EVN shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EVN shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
      Section 2.06. (a) EVN shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement ,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   EVN shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by EVN of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                             ARTICLE III
                  Management and Operations of EVN
      Section 3.01.  EVN shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial,  engineering, environmental, resettlement and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.02.  EVN shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
      Section 3.03  EVN shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) EVN shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   EVN shall:
             (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of
                   income and expenses and related statements) for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than  nine
                   (9) months after the end of each such year, (A)
                   certified copies of its financial statements
                   for such year as so audited and (B) the report
                   of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                   and in such detail as the Association shall
                   have reasonably requested; and
Page  4
           (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02.  (a) EVN shall: (i) not later than
December 31, 1996, based on a methodology and calculations
acceptable to the Association,  complete and incorporate into
its accounting and auditing system a current valuation of all
its fixed assets in operation; and (ii) for each of its fiscal
years thereafter duly revalue such fixed assets in operation in
a timely manner, and based on a methodology and procedures
acceptable to the Association.
      (b)  For the purposes of this Section, the term
"fixed assets in operation" means all tangible assets,
including, but without limitation, land, buildings,  plant and
equipment, held for the production of goods or services, or for
administrative purposes.
       Section 4.03.  EVN shall prepare and furnish to
the Association for its review and comment, by September 30 of
each year, commencing 1996, (i) its proposed budget for the
next fiscal year of EVN and (ii) a rolling long-term financial
plan containing, inter alia,  income statements, sources and
uses of funds, and balance sheets for each of the next five
years.
       Section 4.04.  (a) Except as the Association
otherwise agree, EVN shall produce, for each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995, funds
from internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the
annual average of EVN's  capital expenditures incurred, or
expected to be incurred, for that fiscal year, the previous
fiscal year and the next fiscal year.
       (b) Except as the Association otherwise agree, EVN shall
generate for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending
on December 31, 1995, funds from internal sources equivalent to
not less than two (2) times its estimated debt service requirements
on all its debt, including debt estimated to be incurred.
       (c)   Before March 31 in each of its fiscal years after that
ending on December 31, 1995, EVN shall, on the basis of forecasts
prepared by EVN and  satisfactory to the Association, review whether
it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b)
of this Section in respect of such fiscal year and the next following
fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such
review upon its completion.
       (d)    If any such review shows that EVN would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for
the fiscal years covered by such review, EVN shall promptly take all
necessary measure, including without limitation, adjustments to the
structure or levels of its tariffs, in order to meet such requirements.
       (e)    For the purposes of this Section:
              (i)   The term "funds from internal sources" means the
                    difference between:
                    (A)  the sum of revenues from all sources related
                         to operations, consumer deposits and consumer
                         contributions in aid of construction, net
                         non-operating income and any reduction in
                         working capital other than cash; and
                    (B)  the sum of all expenses related to operations,
                         including administration, adequate maintenance
                         and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
Page  5
                         (excluding provision for depreciation and
                         other non-cash operating charges) debt service
                         requirements, all cash dividends and other
                         cash distributions of surplus, increase in
                         working capital other than cash and other cash
                         outflows other than capital expenditures.
             (ii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
                     difference between:
                     (A)   revenues from all sources other than those
                           related to operations; and
                     (B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
                           lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
                           of revenues in (A) above.
            (iii)    The term "working capital other than cash" means
                     the difference between current assets excluding
                     cash and current liabilities at the end of each
                     fiscal year.
             (iv)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means
                     all assets other than cash which could in the
                     ordinary course of business be converted into
                     cash within twelve months, including accounts
                     receivable, marketable securities, inventories
                     and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
                     operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
              (v)    The term "current liabilities" means all
                     liabilities which will become due and payable or
                     could under circumstances then existing be called
                     for payment within twelve months, including
                     accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
                     requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
                     and dividends.
             (vi)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
                     aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
                     fund payments, if any), and interest and other
                     charges on, debt.
            (vii)    The term "capital expenditures" means all
                     expenditures on account of fixed assets,
                     including interest charged to construction
                     related to operations.
            (viii)   The term "accounts receivable" means amounts due
                     from all sources related to electricity sold in
                     the normal course of business for which payment
                     has not been received.
              (ix)   The term "debt" means indebtedness of EVN maturing
                     by its terms more than one year after the date on
                     which it is originally incurred.
               (x)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
                     loan contract or agreement or other instrument
                     providing for such debt or for the modification
                     of its terms of payment on the date of such
                     contract, agreement  or instrument; and (B)
                     under a guarantee agreement, on the date the
                     agreement providing for such guarantee has been
                     entered into.
               (xi)  Whenever for the purposes of this Article it shall
                     be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
                     the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
                     such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
                     prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
                     other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
Page  6
                     obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
                     or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
                     rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
                                  ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of EVN  thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
             (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
                   its terms; or
            (ii)   the date 20 years after the date of this
                   Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify EVN of this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                          Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement
between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by
mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which
it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                 197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.        248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
      For  EVN:
            Electricity of Viet Nam
            18 Tran Nguyen Han
            Hanoi
            Socialist Republic of Viet Nam
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any document required or permitted to be executed,
Page  7
under this Agreement on behalf of EVN may be taken or executed
by the Director General of EVN or such other person or persons
as said officer shall designate in writing, and EVN shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Russell. J. Cheetham
                                                    Regional Vice President
                                                      East Asia and Pacific
                   ELECTRICITY OF VIET NAM
                   By /s/ Le Van Bang
                                                  Authorized Representative
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                          Implementation Program
A. Project Implementation
1.    Environmental Management
      EVN shall: (i) carry out, or cause to be carried out, Part A
of the Project in accordance with the EA; (ii) take timely action
to ensure that any adverse environmental impact of Part A of the
Project is effectively mitigated in a manner which is acceptable
to the Association; and (iii) cause an environmental unit to be
established by not later than June 30, 1996, for the Phu My-2
Power Station headed by an environmental coordinator, with powers
and responsibilities acceptable to the Association, and with
qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers.
2.    Resettlement (Part C of the Project)
      EVN shall carry out, or cause to be carried out, the resettlement
and rehabilitation of Affected Persons in accordance with the RAP in
a manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Phu My-2 Phase 2 (Part E of the Project)
      EVN shall: (a) by no later than March 31, 1996, employ
consultants to assist in carrying out Part E of the Project, in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 2 of this
Agreement;
      (b) by no later than June 30, 1996, furnish to the
Association, for its review and comment, its proposals for the
solicitation of proposals from independent power producers for
the development of Phu My2 Phase 2 on a build-operate-transfer
Page  8
basis; and
      (c)  promptly thereafter, issue invitations for said proposals,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
4.    Training
      EVN shall (a) carry out the training under Part F
of the Project in accordance with a training program
acceptable to the Association; and (b) to that end, by no
later than June 30, 1996, furnish to the Association for its
review and comment a proposed time-bound program of training
under said Part.
B.    Project Monitoring and Reporting
      EVN shall: (1)  maintain policies and procedures adequate
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association the
carrying out of the Project, including the RAP and the EA and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
      (2)  prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association (i) quarterly
reports on or about March 15, June 15, September 15 and
December 15 in each fiscal year, integrating the results of the
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
subparagraph (1) of this Part B on the progress achieved in the
carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar
quarter and  setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof during the then current calendar
quarter; (ii) annual reports on or about March 15 in each
calendar year, on the monitoring and evaluation progress
achieved in the carrying out of the RAP and EA during the
preceding calendar year, together with any revisions proposed
to be made thereto; and (iii) a mid-term report on or about
June 15, 1997, integrating the results of the monitoring and
evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (1) of
this Part B on the progress achieved to date in the carrying
out of the Project and setting out  the  measures recommended
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period
following such date; and
      (3)   review with the Association each report furnished to
the Association pursuant to subparagraph (2) (ii) and (iii) of
this Part B and promptly take all measures required to ensure
the efficient  completion of the Project and the achievement of
the objectives thereof, including, as applicable, introduction
of revisions to the RAP and based on the conclusions and
recommendations of each said report and the Association's views
on the matter.
C.    Gas Purchase Agreement
      EVN shall enter into contractual arrangements,
acceptable to the Association, by no later than December 31,
1996, for the purchase of gas in amounts sufficient for the
operation of the gas turbines to be installed under Part A of
the Project at full capacity for a period of at least twenty
(20) years.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the
Page  9
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines of Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January
1995 (the Guidelines), and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:  International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C of this Section goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of
Appendix I thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
      (a)  Grouping of contracts
      To the extent practicable contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated  to cost the equivalent of $
200,000 or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereof shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of  the Borrower.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Limited International Bidding
      Goods for which there are only a limited number of
suppliers and which  are estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent
or less per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$500,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2 of the
Guidelines.
2.    International Shopping
      Goods which are readily available off-the-shelf or are
standard specification commodities and which are estimated to
cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $500,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of Sections 3.5
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitation to pre-qualify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods,  the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
Page  10
for the Use of World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments,
such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by  the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms  acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures,  letters of invitation, proposals
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000)
equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost less than fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent each.  However, this
exception to prior Association review shall not apply to (a)
the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms
raising the contract value to one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000) equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) equivalent
or above.
