Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13088
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2475-PNG)
MAY 27, 1994
Agricultural Operations Department
Country Department III
East Asia & Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2475-PNG)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Appraisal (October 1984): K 1 = US$1.18
(IMF exchange rates used for costs throughout implementation, see Appendix 1)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
DWS          Department of West Sepik
DPI          Department of Primary Industries
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOPNG        Government of Papua New Guinea
IFAD         International Food and Agriculture Development Organization
LDP          Less Developed Provinces
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
PCR          Project Completion Report
PFMSD        Provincial Finance and Management Service Division
PPCD         Provincial Planning and Coordination Division
PNG          Papua New Guinea
PSDU         Provincial Staff Development Unit
RDO          Rural Development Officer
RDT          Rural Development Technician
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
WSPDP        West Sepik Provincial Development Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
OffM of Diroctor-G.nral
Operations Evaluation
May 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report on PAPUA NEW GUINEA
West Sepik Provincial Development Project (Ln. 2475-PNG)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea-West Sepik Provincial
Development Project (Ln. 2475-PNG) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. No
Part II has been received from the Borrower. The quality of the report, while candid, is not fully
satisfactory because too many project outputs and effects cannot be accounted for.
The project aimed to strengthen human, institutional and physical resources in West Sepik
Province to enable productive and market-oriented development to grow sustainably. The project
contained development components for agriculture, transport and communications infrastructure,
health and nutrition, education and training, and institution building.
While many infrastructure targets were met, institutional and agricultural development were
unsatisfactory. Weak performance resulted from a flawed project design that badly underestimated
the difficulty of working in a remote and inaccessible location that lacked basic social and physical
infrastructure. Production of food and export crops hardly changed for lack of appropriate
technology and effective contact with farmers. Nor were the aspirations of the hunter/gatherer
communities in the project area taken into account. The appraised project was neither well grounded
nor well focused, and was too complex, attempting too much in too short a time. Success would have
required a longer time frame, more prior consultation with stakeholders, stricter prioritization of
project components and their sequencing, more intensive project management, and a higher level of
Bank supervision.
The project made a mark by strengthening local government institutions, providing feeder
roads and airstrips, establishing community health posts, and improving teacher training. But the
overall outcome is rated as unsatisfactory because rural production systems have not been improved,
and sustainability is uncertain because commitment to the maintenance of improvements put in place
by the project is lacking.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2475-PNG)
Table of Contents
PART I: PROJECT RESULTS FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
PREFACE ..................................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ......................................                                             ii
1. Project Identity  ............................................                                       1
2. Background   ..............................................                                          1
3. Project Objectives and Description  ................................                                 2
4. Project Design and Organization ..................................                                   3
5. Project Implementation   .......................................                                     5
6. Project Results .............................................                                        8
7. Project Sustainability  .........................................                                   10
8. Bank Performance  ..........................................                                        10
9. Borrower Performance ........................................                                       10
10. Lessons of Experience ........................................                                    11
11.  Project  Relationships   .........................................                               11
12. Consulting Services  ......         ..............               .....................            12
13. Project Documentation and Data  ..............               ...................                  12
PART II: PROJECTS RESULTS FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Not received from Borrower within three month's of written requst)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans and Credits ..............................                                 13
Table 2: Project Timetable  .......................................                                    14
Table 3: Disbursements .........................................                                       14
Table 4: Project Implementation ....................................                                   15
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing   ................................                                16
A. Project Costs ........................................                                   16
B. Project Financing  .....................................                                 17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION (Cont.)
Table 6:  Project Results              .........................................                                       17
A. Direct Benefits ......             ........... ..                  ....................                 17
B. Economic Impact  .....................................                                                  18
C. Financing Impact  .....................................                                                 18
D. Studies   .......            ..............                   ......................                    19
Table 7:  Status of Loan Covenants  ...............                         ...................                        19
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources                           ..20
A. Staff inputs..20
B. Missions.20
APPENDICES
1.  Project Annual Cost Summary - By Category  ..........................                                             21
2.  Summary of DPI Statistics   .....................................                                                  22
3.  Permanent Provincial Staff Positions Created through WSPDP   ...............                                       24
4.  Note on Re-evaluation of Economic Impact ...........................                                               25
PROJECT  DATA  SHEET  ..................................................                                               29



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2475-PNG)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the West Sepik Provincial Development
Project in Papua New Guinea, for which Loan No. 2475-PNG in the amount of US$9.7 million
was approved on October 30, 1984. The Loan closed on December 31, 1992, two years behind
schedule. Total disbursements were US$9.33 million and an amount of US$0.37 million was
canceled effective May 3, 1993.
The PCR was prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative mission,' which visited
Papua New Guinea in December 1992. It is based on a review of all relevant project
documentation, field visits to the project area and discussions with the Borrower's project staff
and associated Bank staff.
The draft PCR was sent to GOPNG on April 8, 1993, for their comments and Part II of
the report. To date these have not been received and hence the report has been finalized without
Part II.
1/ Messrs. J.P. Wright {Agriculturalist, Mission Leader) and S. Coleville-Stewart (Economist, Consultant).






PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2475-PNG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The objective of the Project was to strengthen the human, agricultural, institutional and
physical resource base in the West Sepik Province to enable directly-productive and market-orientated
activities to be carried out and sustained. The Project covered all of the districts in the Province and
was intended to be the first five-year phase of a long-term development program. The main
components of the Project were: (a) Agricultural Development; (b) Infrastructure Development; (c)
Health and Nutrition Services Development; (d) Education and Training; (e) Lumi District Special
Program; and (f) Institution Building. The total number of discrete sub-components was twenty
three.
Implementation Experience
Implementation took seven years instead of five because of initial staffing problems and
delays in the completion of the investment study (for second phase development). The most critical
variances between planned and actual project implementation are:  significant shortfalls under
subsistence food crops, commercial vegetables and cocoa production; cost-overruns and delays in
the civil works program; and the discontinuance of four sub-components, namely, subsistence food
crops, nutrition, community schools and farm supplies. However, given the complexity of the
project, remoteness of project areas, poor communication facilities, and a general shortage of trained
and experienced managerial and technical staff, the overall performance of the provincial
administrative staff should be considered to have been commendable and the implementation delay
as well as the shortfalls in the targets not unusual or out of line with Bank-wide experiences. Critical
management weaknesses were in the field of financial management and project monitoring and
evaluation. It appears that many of these implementation constraints could have been minimized if
detailed working papers for the various components had been prepared at appraisal, Bank
supervisions were more frequent, intensive and wide-ranging in scope, and more concerted efforts
had been made for staff training. Consultants retained under the project were useful in supporting
implementation, but their contributions to transferring skills to the local counterparts were poor. The
expected support from the central government for financial management, staff development, and
project M&E also did not materialize.
Results
As the first phase of a long-term development program for the province, the success of
the project has to be viewed, as it was envisaged at project appraisal, in a 'long-term context and
has to accommodate the fact that a sizeable portion of the benefits will be unquantifiable.'



iii
The most significant contribution of the project has been the strengthening of local level
institutions and physical infrastructure, the essential first steps towards the project's long-term goal
for promoting sedentary agriculture and 'modern' way of life in isolated communities depending on
hunting-gathering and shifting cultivation for livelihood.
The range, capabilities and availability of public services throughout West Sepik have
been much improved through the establishment, upgrading and strengthening of Government
institutions. Community health care has been greatly improved in all six districts and the Project has
improved the quality of education through in-service training of teachers and facilitated school
attendance through increased boarding facilities and wider vocational training opportunities. Road
and airstrip improvements have been of benefit to the Province.
The project's success in improving the productivity and production in agriculture has,
however, been mixed and less encouraging. Incremental production of food crops has been far
below appraisal targets, primarily because of inadequacies in the support services, lack of
technological recommendations (food crops) and marketing constraints (vegetables). However, the
livestock development activities, particularly poultry, and tree crop development have been
reasonably satisfactory. It is possible that some of the incremental production of vegetables and
livestock products are consumed on farm and thereby contribute to improved nutrition.
Sustainability
The Project's sustainability will depend on access to adequate funds by the provincial
government for operation and maintenance of the physical facilities and services created under the
project, and the government's commitment to address the development constraints identified during
the implementation of the project. The Central Government is currently providing funds for the
salaries of incremental staff appointed under the project and for the maintenance of roads and
buildings. The provincial government has also been pursuing with the Central Government and
donor agencies for initiating a follow-up project for consolidating the first phase initiatives. Should
the current initiatives continue and are effective, the project has a reasonable chance to be
sustainable.
Findings and Lessons Learned
Rural development in Papua New Guinea has to take place under extremely complex
and difficult institutional, infrastructural and socio-political constraints. Considered against this
backdrop, the overall outcome and achievements of the project should be considered as positive and
significant, and largely consistent with those of other similar projects implemented in PNG (e.g.,
Enga, Southern Highlands, South Simbu).  Admittedly, the performance of the agricultural
development initiatives have fallen short of expectations. However, the agriculture sector as a whole
stagnated in PNG during the last decade due to, among other reasons, adverse incentives structure



iv
environment and macro-economic policy framework. It would be unreasonable to expect the
agricultural development initiatives under the project to have been an exception to the overall sectoral
trends.
The major lessons learnt from the implementation of the project are as follows:
(i)    rural development projects should be conceived and sequenced as an integral
part of a long-term strategy and development program;
(ii)    in determining the scope of multisectoral rural development projects,
interventions should be rigorously prioritized so that projects would be less
complex and yet have the synergistic effects;
(iii)   detailed working documents and implementation guidelines should be prepared
at appraisal and updated, as appropriate, during implementation; particular care
should be taken to ensure clear understanding among the key national and
provincial staff about their respective roles in project implementation;
(iv)    supervision of rural development projects require more donor and government
resources than is usual for sectoral interventions;
(v)    institutional arrangements and staffing for project monitoring and evaluation
should be in place early in the implementation of the project, and mid-term
reviews should be geared to making appropriate changes/restructuring of
project;
(vi)   roads improvement should be planned in the context of developing an overall
network for produce evacuation and not simply for making certain areas
accessible; and
(vii)   an appropriate macro-policy framework and incentives structure is fundamental
to the success of agricultural development components of a rural development
project.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2475-PNG)
PART I
1. Project Identity
Project Name       :  West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Loan No.           :  2475-PNG
RVP Unit           :  East Asia and Pacific
Country            :  Papua New Guinea
Sector             .  Agriculture
2. Background
2.1        Although the agriculture sector, including forestry, provides the livelihood for about 80%
of the total population of Papua New Guinea (PNG), it currently only contributes about 26% of GDP and
19% of export earnings. Sector growth during the 1980s has been poor (1.7% p.a.), with population
growing around 2.5% p.a. Output per capita has declined appreciably over the past decade; except for
oil palm, production of all other major export crops has been on the decline because of drastically
reduced world prices.  On the positive side, production of traditional staples, some "introduced"
foodcrops (potato, temperate climate vegetables, maize) and poultry has steadily increased which,
augmented by imported food, has helped PNG maintain a satisfactory level of food security and nutrition.
However, in some of the densely populated and remote areas, particularly in the Highlands, nutritional
stress and environmental degradation are emerging, and the population continue to live in abject poverty.
2.2        All the policy statements of the Government of Papua New Guinea (GOPNG) in the latter
half of the 1970s placed emphasis on the need to inject funds and technology into the least developed
provinces through provincial-based, multi-sectoral integrated rural development projects, with the major
aim of agricultural interventions to diversity food production and consumption, to improve nutrition and
to increase incomes from cash crops. Five such projects have been financed since 1977, four by the
World Bank (Bank) and one by the International Food and Agricultural Development Organization
(IFAD). All the projects had mixed results: physical targets were generally achieved, infrastructure and
social services components had an encouraging impact, perceptible improvements in local level institutions
were achieved, and although some agricultural production objectives were met, these could not be
sustained due to marketing problems. Financial sustainability is a major issue.
2.3        West Sepik is one of the poorest provinces in PNG.  The West Sepik Provincial
Development Project (WSPDP) was appraised and approved in response to a request from GOPNG for



- 2 -
Bank assistance to initiate a development program in the Province. The specific development goals of
West Sepik Province at the time of project appraisal were to: (a) enable the people to make an orderly
transition from an isolated way of life involving hunting and shifting cultivation to a more modern way
of life and settled form of agriculture; (b) increase productivity and production in subsistence agriculture
and cash cropping in order to increase incomes and improve nutrition; (c) improve the availability and
effectiveness of Government services; and (d) increase the provincial revenue base. The population's
most frequently articulated needs were better roads, health services, schools and opportunities to increase
cash income.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The Project represented the first five-year phase of a long-term program (3040 years) to
meet the provincial development objectives. The Project covered all of West Sepik, and was a pioneering
effort at accelerating the building of a technological, manpower, entrepreneurial, infrastructural and
institutional base which would effectively hasten economic and social development. By improving the
physical and human resource base, the Project sought to begin to address the minimum conditions
necessary to promote development.
3.2         The Project consisted of the following components:
(a)     Agricultural development comprising assistance to: (i) about 2,000 families in
increasing and diversifying subsistence food production from gardens, and bringing
under garden-type cultivation some additional 100 ha of land; (ii) increase area
under commercial vegetables by 300 ha; (iii) increase area under cocoa by 160
ha by providing seeds, extension and marketing advice to about 800 new families;
(iv) about 1,000 existing coffee/cocoa growers in improving present production
operations; (v) about 300 farmers to plant 100 ha of rubber and 500 existing
producers to market their rubber; (vi) strengthen support services including for
cash crop marketing, provision of young livestock, field staff supervision and
training and farm supplies; and (vii) investigate and prepare future agricultural
projects through investment studies.
(b)     Infrastructure development comprising road upgrading and rehabilitation, house
construction, airstrip upgrading and construction of a wharf.
(c)     Health and nutrition services development comprising improvement of diets of high
and community school students and training of 15 primary health care workers
annually.
(d)     Training and education improvement comprising support for eleven community
schools and two vocational training centers; and establishment of an education
resource or in-service training center and boarding facilities at Lumi High School.
(e)     Support for a special program in Lumi District, a particularly disadvantaged area,
comprising the establishment of a village development center, district
administration strengthening and malnutrition and socio-economic studies.



- 3 -
(f)    Institution building comprising the upgrading of the Provincial Planning and
Coordination Division, the Provincial Finance and Management Services Division
(PFMSD); and the establishment of a Provincial Staff Development Unit (PSDU).
(g)    Establishment of a Less Developed Provinces' (LDP) Studies Fund to assist the
Central Government to prepare development plans for other less developed
provinces in PNG.
3.3        The total project cost, over a period of five years, was estimated at appraisal to be about
US$16.6 million, of which nearly 60% was to be financed by a Bank Loan of US$9.7 million. The
project cost included a provision of US$1.3 million for what was termed in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) as an "unappraised component". Retroactive financing of up to US$400,000 was approved for
eligible expenditures (salaries, vehicles, operating costs and civil works) to help assure the prompt start-
up of the Project.
3.4        The Department of West Sepik (DWS) was the implementing agency for the entire Project
except the LDP and investment studies component. These studies were to be implemented by concerned
divisions of the National Government.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        As already noted (para 3.1), the Project constituted the first five-year phase of a long-term
effort to accelerate development of the human, agricultural, institutional and physical resource base of
the Province and, as such, its activities were spread throughout all districts. The Project was prepared
by the West Sepik Provincial Government, with the assistance of consultants and the National
Government, and was appraised by the Bank in November 1983 ".
4.2        While the Project had a fairly clear conceptual foundation, based broadly on meeting the
provincial development objectives, some of the basic assumptions were flawed, particularly those
regarding the marketability of agricultural products. The specific objectives of each sub-component were
not sufficiently detailed nor adequately conveyed to those responsible for implementation. Further, the
absence of clearly defined implementation roles and responsibilities and a detailed implementation plan
reduced the chances of a successful Project. These aspects were important because the project-funded
programs required implementation and coordination by more than one Government Division. For
example, the Nutrition Sub-components failed because they were not suitably detailed nor were the
combined roles and responsibilities of the Health, Education and Primary Industries ' Divisions clearly
specified, or subsequently resolved. Most of these problems could have been overcome by a project-
launch workshop which would have meant that all parties had a clear idea of their role and
responsibilities.
4.3        The Project introduced several potentially valuable innovations, notably the establishment
of the PSDU within the office of the Deputy Secretary of the DWS, the Marketing and Economics Section
under the Division of Primary Industries (DPI), two-man aid posts of the Health Division in remote
"  SAR, dated October 11, 1984.
2/  Agriculture represents the main primary industry.



- 4 -
locations and the Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) Unit within the Project Planning and Coordination
Division, and employed 59 additional staff in essential line positions within the Provincial Government.
The timing of the Project was appropriate, especially in light of the objective of the National Government
to increase assistance to less developed provinces and the weak infrastructural and institutional base of
the West Sepik Province.
4.4         The project design was relatively complex and overly ambitious given that it involved
implementation by eight Provincial Government Divisions ", and 23 sub-components, although it
constituted the first phase of a long-term development program in the Province. Both the manpower
resources and public infrastructure required to implement the Project and achieve its targets were expected
to be developed during the course of the Project and consequently both were not available at the early
stages of implementation. This resulted in weak initial implementation of some sub-components,
particularly of the Agricultural Development Component (ADC).
4.5         Further, the Project covered remote locations throughout the six districts in the Province2".
This meant that good communications were fundamental to its successful implementation. This problem
was not adequately addressed at the design stage. For instance, the Project should have provided for
radio units and operating budgets for telephones, where available, to facilitate communications between
the project-supported outstations and the Provincial headquarters.
4.6         Another problem requiring specific attention was the paucity of statistical information and
the absence of quantitative baseline data on health characteristics and the agricultural systems in the
Province. To tackle this problem, the requirements and activities of the M&E Unit should have been
specified at the design stage in more detail and geared particularly to monitoring the productive sub-
components of the Project. Little information on these aspects was collected during implementation,
rendering the subsequent evaluation of results almost impossible.
4.7         Also, closer attention should have been paid during project preparation to ascertaining the
needs and development priorities of farmers and other potential beneficiaries. Largely, as a result of a
lack of detailed information on these aspects, the Project promoted several agricultural interventions
which failed because of low adoption and acceptance by farmers, particularly of lowland vegetables,
hybrid cocoa and subsistence food crops. The problem of low adoption rates was exacerbated by a weak
extension support program and an apparently limited demand among farmers for improved cash incomes.
4.8         Finally, while project design placed emphasis on developing feeder roads to improve access
to areas with potential for expanding cash crop production, the fact that the Province has had an
inadequate trunk road infrastructure linking major inland centers with port facilities at the coast was not
given due consideration. By developing only feeder roads, the Project enabled local marketing, but did
not facilitate marketing and transportation of goods to points of export. On the other hand, the Project
has exacerbated marketing problems through increasing the volumes of commodities requiring exports.
The absence of trunk roads has also inhibited the development of private enterprise marketing and
required the Provincial Government to provide as a remedial measure subsidized marketing assistance
" The Divisions of Primary Industries, Works and Supply, Health, Education, Provincial Planning and Coordination,
Finance and Management Services, and Information, and the Office of the Deputy Secretary.
2/  Vanimo, Aitape, Lumi, Nuku, Telefomin (including Oksapmin), and Amanab (including Green River).



(price support and transport subsidy). Moreover, marketing constraints have contributed to reduced
farmer acceptance of the development options promoted by the Project.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        The Bank Loan was approved on October 30, 1984 and signed on January 7, 1985. Due
to delays in project staffing, the Loan did not become effective until September 17, 1985. The Loan was
originally scheduled to close on December 31, 1990 but, due mainly to project implementation proceeding
slower than anticipated and protracted delays in initiating the last two phases of the investment study, the
Closing Date was extended; first to December 31, 1991 and again to December 31, 1993. Total
disbursements were US$9.33 million, or 96% of the original Loan amount of US$9.70 million (see Part
III, Table 3). The balance of the Loan was cancelled.
5.2        The most critical variances between planned and actual project implementation are the
significant shortfalls, both in terms of the number of farmers reached and the areas planted under
subsistence food crops, commercial vegetables and cocoa sub-components of the ADC (see Part III,
Table 4); the cost overruns and delays under the civil works sub-component; the discontinuance of four
sub-components, namely subsistence food crops, nutrition, central community schools and farm supplies;
and the addition of a sub-component consisting of construction and staffing of seven two-man aid posts
under the Division of Health.
5.3        The achievement of SAR agricultural targets has been mixed. With the exception of rubber,
for which the potential area planted exceeds the SAR target by 50%," the targets for areas planted and
farmers reached have not been achieved. Cocoa farmer numbers and area planted achieved approximately
63 % of target. Subsistence food crops and commercial vegetables have been least successful and have
generally realized only 5% of targets. Whereas food crop production suffered due to a lack of technical
packages, the main constraint to increasing commercial vegetable production was the lack of new markets
coupled with a substantially reduced demand from the OK Tedi mine. On the other hand, due to the high
demand from the farming community for young animals, the Project's livestock activities have been
reasonably successful, and, due to the installation of a large capacity incubator at Pasi, the annual
distribution of young chickens has exceeded estimates by 700%.
5.4        The comparatively poor performance of the crop production activities of the ADC could
probably have been improved if a coordinated agricultural strategy had been developed together with a
workable methodology. As it was, extension was ineffective, with Rural Development Officers and
Technicians (RDOs & RDTs) making little direct contact with farmers except at training courses for
farmers. No on-farm demonstrations were carried out except at a few schools. Very little in-province
training of RDOs and RDTs was carried out and then only in crop management by the Food Crop Officer
in extension and communication skills. Field staff lacked technical skills, had few messages to pass to
farmers and were poorly supervised. Extension could have been considerably improved if adequate
training had been given to the field staff. This was not done for two main reasons. Firstly, the staff
development unit delegated technical training in extension to DPI, but did not provide DPI with the funds
Due to lack of monitoring information on areas planted, this has been estimated from the number of seedlings
distributed by the nurseries and assuming 600 trees per hectare as a standard planting density. However, the figures
reported are somewhat theoretical and in practice the effective area planted, based on survival of seedlings, may
be considerably less.



-6 -
for this activity. Secondly, although a specific budget was allocated for supervision and training by
visiting staff from the Department of Agriculture and Livestock, only 18% of the budget was spent on
conferences in Vanimo and no field visits were made. Funding for this activity was stopped at the end
of 1989, but the unutilized funds were not made available to DPI for the Division to initiate a substitute
training program. The success of the proposed tree crop development was dependent on seed and
seedlings being readily available and transportable throughout the year.  A strategy to fulfil this
requirement was not developed and, although a large number of nurseries were established, seedling
production tended to be in large batches produced erratically without regard to anticipated farmer
demand.
5.5        More than 100 buildings of various types have been constructed by the Project, a large
number of which are used as offices and utility buildings at health and education centers. The buildings
appear to be structurally sound and physically adequate. However, the costs of construction, especially
those of transporting materials to site by air, were generally underestimated at appraisal. In addition to
buildings, the physical resource base of the Province has been improved by the upgrading and
rehabilitation of 139 km of roads and 7 airstrips, the cost of which was also under-budgeted and, as a
result, roads were either partly completed or the standard of construction was reduced. Maintenance
appears to be inadequate and the provincial authorities expressed concern about the allocation of adequate
maintenance funds in the future.
5.6        The main variance in expenditure was in the Infrastructure Component. As presented in
the SAR, the costs of this component represented only road construction and related items. However,
project accounting confused the nomenclature of this component with the Civil Works category, as
specified in the disbursements schedule. As a result, some construction costs of buildings in other sub-
components have been allocated to infrastructure in the project cost summary. It is not possible to
reallocate these costs. However, it is estimated that the actual costs of the Infrastructure Component (i.e.
roads construction) exceeded the SAR estimate by 23%.
5.7        While project management reports that construction costs were generally under-budgeted
at appraisal, project audit reports show that total Civil Works costs were less than SAR estimate,
including contingencies. This discrepancy is believed to be due to misallocation of expenses in the project
accounts. It is also possible that the budgets used throughout implementation were those developed in
1984 and that they were implemented up until the end of the Project in 1991 without allowing for the cost
escalation provided for under physical and price contingencies. This is further reflected in that total
actual project costs are less than the SAR estimates including contingencies, but more than the SAR
estimates of base costs. Other cost variances mostly reflect reallocation of funds between discontinued
and expanded activities, as in the case for the Education, Health and Agriculture Components. These
are detailed in Part III, Table 5.A.
5.8        The Project has facilitated the establishment of the Raihu Health Worker Training Center
at Aitape for training primary health care workers. Although the sub-component aimed at improving
nutrition at community schools was dropped, the Project did assist five high schools to establish vegetable
gardens. The scope of the Health Component was increased by the construction and staffing of seven
two-man aid posts, located in remote areas.
5.9        Under the Education and Training Component, an Education Resource Center was
established at Lumi to provide in-service training for teachers. The Vocational Training Center at Aitape
was upgraded and a similar center established at Telefomin. However, the proposed support to Central



- 7 -
Community Schools was dropped, primarily due to lack of building plans. A Village Development
Center was established at Lumi.
5.10       Under the Institutional Building Component, the Project has supported and upgraded the
PPCD, and the PFMSD. It has been instrumental in establishing a PSDU, a Provincial M&E Unit; and
a Media Unit under the "unappraised component".
5.11       The problems experienced with staffing were probably the most important factor contributing
to the adverse variances, notwithstanding that delayed staffing was identified at appraisal as a project risk.
Although the Project Coordinator was in post prior to project effectiveness, the full complement of
contract staff was not in place until June 1987, virtually two years into the Project. Further, three key
counterpart staff, namely the Project Coordinator, Staff Development Officer and the Finance Officer,
were not appointed until mid-1988. As a result, when the contract Project Coordinator left in April 1989,
his counterpart had to take over the Project after only a very short period of understudy. The problems
stemming from delayed staffing of key positions were compounded by high staff turnover at the lower
levels. A review of the dates of appointment of all levels of project staff, who were in position at the
end of 1991, showed that a vast majority of them had been appointed between 1988 and 1990 (see
Appendix 3). The net result of all the delays was that most counterparts received inadequate training.
Staff recruitment continues to be a problem for the Provincial Government, with a particular case being
the PSDU which is currently unmanaged and inactive.
5.12       This lack of training was most evident in terms of weaknesses in financial management and
in monitoring and evaluation. Although, on the whole, accountancy was fairly competent, financial
management was relatively weak and inconsistent. The anticipated Central Government assistance to
financial management and accountancy was not forthcoming. The contract Project Coordinator had a
disciplined and somewhat inflexible approach to financial management, and project sub-component
supervisors were either excluded from or showed little interest in the financial management of their
relevant activities.
5.13       The baseline survey was not completed until mid-1987 and produced little useful
information. Due to the recruitment of an unsuitable contract M&E officer, subsequent data collection,
except by DPI, was uncoordinated. Interpretation of the data was particularly weak. The inadequate
performance of M&E was aggravated by the assignment of the counterpart officer to other duties for long
periods of time.
5.14       The four sub-components that were dropped could probably have been moderately successful
if there had been a better understanding of the objectives, better design, and the will of management to
overcome the problems faced. For example, the tools supplied under the farm supplies sub-component
had an initial positive impact on rubber production, but supplies were discontinued due to poor cost
recovery. With a better understanding of the revolving fund concept and better management, the sub-
component could probably have been continued. The dropping of the community schools sub-component
was a direct result of poor communications and ill-defined responsibilities between Divisions.
5.15       The three main risks associated with the Project were correctly identified in the SAR. The
recruitment of staff has already been discussed (para 5.11). The coordination and management risk was
largely overcome by the provincial administrative staff, who on the whole performed well, considering
the scope and complexity of the Project. This performance would have been better if the anticipated
support in training and financial management had been forthcoming from the Central Government. The



- 8 -
third risk, that of acceptance of new farming or dietary practices, was not overcome mainly because of
lack of involvement of the farmer in the Project and the failure of M&E to provide feedback on
implementation, including the socio-cultural implications of change.
6. Project Results
6.1         Overall, the Project has been successful in achieving its objectives of strengthening the
human, institutional and physical resource base of West Sepik; however, most of its agricultural sub-
components have failed to meet their specific objectives of increasing productivity and production.
However, it should be noted that the SAR specifically pointed out that "project justification has to be
viewed in a long-term context and has to accommodate the fact that a sizeable portion of the benefits will
be unquantifiable" (SAR para 6.01, page 32).
6.2         Non-quantifiable Benefits.  The range, capabilities and availability of public services
throughout West Sepik have been greatly improved by establishing, upgrading and strengthening of
Government institutions through developing both physical infrastructure and staffing. In particular, 59
permanent line positions have been created and staffed within the eight Provincial Government Divisions
involved in the Project. This represents an increase of 90% over the 31 positions estimated at appraisal,
of which the variance mostly comprises additional aid post staff of the Health Division (14), vocational
center instructors in the Division of Education (6), Media Unit Staff in the Information Division (3) and
support staff in the Division of Program Planning and Coordination (4).
6.3         Community health care has been greatly improved in all six districts. The outreach of
essential health services has been extended and improved through the training of community health
workers and construction and staffing of additional aid posts. The impact of these activities is seen in
fewer outpatient visits to central health centers as people are now able to obtain assistance for all but the
most serious conditions locally. Cost savings from reduced outpatient transport has enabled more
resources at the central health center level to be put into urgent medical evacuations and essential surgery
and, in general, the health facilities appear to be adequately supplied and staffed. The expansion of
provincial health services and, inter alia, provision of anti-malarial drugs is also expected to have a
significant impact on reducing mortality in West Sepik. This is of particular relevance as malaria is
reported to be the largest single cause of adult deaths in PNG.
6.4         Discussions with officials in the province indicate that the Project has improved the quality
of education through teacher in-service training at the Education Resource Center at Lumi. However,
this improvement cannot be substantiated as no evaluation of this sub-component was carried out. There
is a distinct possibility that teacher training will cease in the near future, either due to lack of funds or
the resignation of the Principal of the Center. Also, the Project has facilitated higher school attendance
through increased school boarding facilities and wider vocational training opportunities. The extent of
demand for the courses offered by the vocational training institutions is highlighted in that the Aitape
Center received in excess of 500 enrolment applications in 1991.
6.5         The Project's physical development of roads and airstrips are of particular benefit to the
Province in view of the heavy reliance on expensive air transport services. Any improvement in
provincial transport networks will assist in meeting the Government's development objectives.



-9 -
6.6        Impact on Agricultural Production.  Overall, the Project's impact on agricultural
development has fallen short of appraisal expectation. Technological improvemernts in agriculture were
limited in scope and quality. Incremental crop production was less than 5% of SAR estimates primarily
because of inadequacies in support services, lack of technological recommendations (food crops), and
marketing constraints for vegetables. However, progress in tree crop development was reasonably
satisfactory, with area planted with rubber standing at nearly 150% of SAR targets and cocoa at over
60%. Livestock activities have been successful overall and, in particular, annual distribution of young
poultry has exceeded SAR estimates by 700%.
6.7        It is difficult to assess the impact of the agricultural development component on farm
income, employment and nutrition because of a lack of relevant data. However, given the reduced prices
of cocoa and rubber since mid-1980s, it appears that the project's tree crop interventions resulted in only
minimal impact on farmer income. But it is also possible that part of the incremental production of
vegetables and poultry were consumed on-farm and by the local population, which contributed to
improved nutrition. Lastly, it should also be noted that PNG's agriculture sector as a whole stagnated
during the 1980s because of adverse incentives structure and macro-economic policy framework. It
would be unreasonable to expect that the agricultural development components of the project to have been
successful and sustainable under such conditions.
6.8        Economic Impact.  A conventional economic analysis of the overall Project was not
undertaken at appraisal because the specific impacts of the Project were difficult to assess for several
reasons. These included: that some underlying technical coefficients and parameters of the subsistence
system  needed to estimate incremental benefits were not known with sufficient accuracy;  that
achievement of objectives depended on many factors, such as the accuracy and efficiency of extension
recommendations and the degree and speed of uptake of the recommendations by farmers, all of which
were difficult to anticipate; that there was a lack of sufficient experience, in terms of farmer response
under similar projects dealing with isolated and subsistence societies; and, moreover, because the Project
constituted the start of a long-term program and, as such, its impact, particularly on development of
subsistence systems, was difficult to separate from the impact of the long-term program.
6.9        In view of these factors, the SAR presented two indicative analyses to supplement the
qualitative evaluation made of the Project. In the first analysis, the minimum increase in family incomes
(or agricultural output) needed to yield a 10% ERR for a 30-year program of complementary investments
in agriculture and roads was estimated and judged for feasibility. The second analysis presented a
conventional rate of return analysis for one agricultural sub-component (Highlands Vegetables), for which
the necessary data were available.
6.10       However, as a result of a number of factors, presented in detail in Appendix 4, it has not
been possible to re-estimate the ERRs based on the two analyses contained in the SAR. Further, given
the paucity of data on agriculture in the Province, an alternative analysis was neither feasible nor
worthwhile. The assumptions necessary for such an analysis by the PCR mission would not have any
justifiable foundation and thus would not provide even an indicative measure of the economic impact of
the Project. In lieu of this, the PCR presents a qualitative assessment of the performance of WSPDP in
accordance with the indicators defined in the SAR.



- 10 -
7. Project Sustainability
7.1         The Project's sustainability would largely depend on the allocation of adequate funding for
the recurrent expenditure needs and satisfactory follow-up of the project interventions. Following project
completion, the Central Government has provided funds for the salaries of incremental staff and for the
maintenance of roads and buildings, although the funds allocated for maintenance are considered to be
inadequate. On the other hand, the level of funding provided for project-initiated activities has been
drastically reduced, resulting in curtailment or cessation of some activities. For example, DPI's core
activities of extension, marketing assistance and seedling production have been reduced and health patrols,
production of media material, training involving travel and M&E field activities have ceased due to
inadequate funds. Unless sufficient funding is made available to maintain project-funded activities and
services, the sustainability of the Project would be in jeopardy. Further, there is a need for a follow-up
project to consolidate the benefits obtained in the WSPDP.   It should focus on improving
communications, marketing and agricultural production, the latter through the development of technical
packages acceptable to the farmers and improved training of lower level extension workers.
8. Bank Performance
8.1         Through the Project, the Bank has made a positive contribution to the physical and
institutional development of West Sepik Province. It has also provided an opportunity for the Provincial
Authorities to gain implementation experience of a large scale development program which will greatly
assist all future investment programs undertaken in the Province.
8.2         On the other hand, the Bank's supervision of the Project was relatively weak. Missions
were infrequent (10 in 8 years) and mostly of short duration, so that very little time was spent in the field
away from project headquarters. Most missions were one-man missions comprised of an agriculturalist
and the only visits by other specialists were one each by an engineer and a health specialist. This resulted
in delayed identification and resolution of implementation problems. A clear policy of prioritization of
sub-components was lacking and mid-project corrections were largely inappropriate:  there was a
tendency to decide to drop a sub-component rather than make every effort to overcome inherent
problems.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1         Both the Central and Provincial Governments performed satisfactorily in implementation of
this complex project. On its part, the Central Government assisted implementation through appointment
of a project steering committee and satisfactory administration of the project Loan. However, the lengthy
Central Government procedures for processing of contracts and staff recruitment caused considerable
delays in project implementation. Also, the steering committee was ineffective in providing supervision
and support to the Provincial Government in project financial management and monitoring and evaluation.
9.2         The Provincial Government was successful in complying with the loan covenants (see
Part III, Table 7) and, after initial delays, was able to successfully incorporate most sub-components into
its recurrent operations.



- 11 -
10. Lessons of Experience
10.1       The lessons that can be learned from the Project are:
(a)    The Project was over-ambitious and complex given the extreme institutional and
infrastructural constraints in the province and in PNG. For such projects, the SAR
should provide clearly defined operational responsibilities, full details of the
activities of each sub-component and detailed terms-of-reference for all key
personnel. A project-launch workshop would have made a positive contribution
towards overcoming these problems.
(b)    Because of the integrated nature and complexity of the Project and the Provincial
Government's inexperience with management of large-scale investment programs,
the Bank should have supervised implementation more effectively. Supervision
missions should have included a wider range of technical personnel to identify and
resolve implementation difficulties experienced by project management.
(c)    Rural development projects should be conceived and sequenced as an integral part
of a long-term development program and strategy. A follow-up project is needed
to consolidate and build upon the achievements of this Project.
(d)    It is necessary to ensure that support services to the farmers are comprehensive and
fully effective; and that marketing constraints are adequately addressed. A much
greater impact on produce marketing would have been achieved through support
for trunk roads linking inland centers with the coast.
(e)    Given the remoteness and isolation of villages and project locations throughout the
Province, project design should have made provision for an effective
telecommunications system.
(f)    The timely recruitment, and subsequent retention, of project staff should have been
more effectively addressed, especially as this risk was identified at appraisal.
(g)    Given the lack of a relevant base data, more attention should have been given to
developing the effectiveness of the Provincial M&E Unit.
11. Project Relationships
11.1       Throughout the project period, a good working relationship existed between the Borrower
and the Bank. This was enhanced through the continuity of Bank staff associated with the Project.
11.2       At the local level, the success of implementation of some of the project sub-components,
particularly Community School Nutrition, was reduced by poor relationships and weak communication
between project management and some implementing agencies.



- 12 -
12. Consulting Services
12.1       Consulting services had a substantial role in all aspects of the Project. Consultants generally
performed satisfactorily in achieving physical implementation targets, but a common weakness was their
generally poor training and preparation of counterparts. This was mostly due to the consultants placing
emphasis on meeting implementation targets rather than on training key personnel.
12.2       The M&E consultancy was particularly weak. The consultant lacked an understanding of
the requirements of M&E in relation to an investment program such as this and no effective data
management or evaluation systems were developed. Little emphasis was placed on gathering agricultural
and socio-economic statistics which could be used by project management for planning or evaluating
project activities and impacts.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1       The SAR and the Loan Agreement were generally perceived as sufficient to provide a useful
framework to guide implementation and were closely adhered to by the project management. Overall,
it would have been of more use if the SAR had specified objectives and activities for each sub-component
in greater detail and clearly defined implementation roles and responsibilities.
13.2       The Departmental Brief and Handover report of November 1991, prepared by the Assistant
Secretary, PPCD, was a useful document and relevant to the PCR mission, whereas the Mid-Term
Evaluation Report appears to have had little impact due to its very limited circulation.
13.3       Although, as previously stated, very poor project data were generated by the M&E Unit,
DPI field staff collected reasonable data throughout implementation (see Appendix 2 for summary of data
collected), but there has been no collation or evaluation of these data.



- 13 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan/Credit                  Purpose               Year of          Status               Comments
Approval 1/
Popondetta Smallholder Oil   Oil Palm Development          1977       Closed           PCR: Objectives achieved.
Palm Development Project                                              II Dec. 1984
(Loan 1333)
Southem Highlands Rural    Development aimed at rural      1979       Closed           PCR: Design too complex
Development (Credit 841-    poor.                                     7 Nov. 1985      and unrealistic. Sustainability
PNG)                                                                                   problems. Cash crop
components failed.
Second Agricultural Credit   Lending Program to            1981       Closed           PCR: Sustainability doubtful.
(Credit 1149)              Smallholders                               31 Dec. 1984
Enga Provincial            Provincial Development          1982       Closed           PCR: Planned infrastructure
Development                                                           30 Sept. 1988    provided; agricultural targets
(Credit 1227/Loan 2125)                                                                not attained. Design must be
flexible and phasing skillful.
Agricultural Support      Institutional Support            1983       Closed           PCR: Project too ambitious
Services                                                              30 June 1989     in scope and implementation
(Loan 2276-PNG)                                                                        scheduling; better Bank
supervision required.
Third Agricultural Credit  Lending Program for             1986       Closed           PCR: Poor prospects for
(Loan 2624-PNG)            Agricultural Development.                  16 Jan. 1990     sustainability of lending for
Strengthening ABPNG                                         similar projects by ABPNG.
S. Simbu Rural             Improved incomes of rural       1987       Ongoing to       Effectiveness of field services
Development                population.                                Dec. 1993       is a major challenge.
(IFAD Loan 192-PA)                                                                     Vegetable marketing not
sustainable.
1/ World Bank fiscal year.



- 14 -
2. Project Timetable
Activity                      Planned                    Revised                        Actual
Identification/Preparation                                                               GOPNG Feasibility Study,
dated mid-1983
Appraisal Mision                                                                         3-26 November 1983
Loan Negotiations                                                                        27-29 August 1984
Board Approval                                                                           30 October 1984
Loan Signing                                                                             7 January 1985
Loan Effectiveness                9 April 1985                                           17 September 1985 2/
Loan Closing                      31 December 1990          31 December 1991             31 December 1992
Loan Completion                                                                          30 April 1993
I/ Upgraded from pre-appraiul mission.
2/ Delays in project saffing.
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
Financial Year                1985     1986    1987    1988    1989    1990          1991     1992     1993
Appraisal Estimate            0.4       1.2      3.6      5.4      6.9      8.6      9.7
Actual                          -       0.49     2.36     3.71     4.73     5.69     6.84     7.61     9.33
Actual as % of                          41       66       69       69       66       71        78       93
Appraisal Estimate



- 15 -
4. Project Implementation
Indicator                                                     Appraisal             Actual or
Estimate            PCR Estimate
A.   Infrastructure
Houses                                                   20                     73
Roads (km)                                              124                    139
District km (No.)                                                         86(6)
Provincial km (No.)                                                       53(4)
Schools dormitories                                      12                      2
Airstrips                                                 3                      7
Wharf                                                     1                      -I
Education training centers                                3                      3
Classrooms                                             -                      5
Dormitories                                            -                      6
Health training centers                                   1                      1
Village development center                                1                      1
Aid posts                                                 -                      7
Renovations                                               -                      3
Miscellaneous                                             -                     10
B.   Staff Recruitment
Overseas                                                  7                      7
Volunteer                                                 3                      4
National                                                 23                     59
C.   Agricultural Development
Nurseries and stations
Food crop nurseries                                   8                       7
Tree crop nurseries                                   13                     27
DPI outstations                                       17                     17
Market stations/cool rooms                             3                      2
Subsistence food crops
Farmers reached                                    2,000                    100
Area planted (ha)                                    100                    n.a.
Commercial vegetables
Farmers reached                                    2,000                    356
Area planted (ha)                                   300                      17
Rubber
Farmers reached                                     300                     230
Area planted (ha)                                    100                    149
Cocoa
Farmers reached                                     800                     500
Area planted (ha)                                    160                    101
School Gardens
Community Schools                                    38                      31
High Schools                                          6                       7
Young Livestock Distribution
Poultry                                            5,000                 34,700
Pigs                                                )300                    120
Goats                                               )                        45



- 16 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
SAR Estimated         SAR 1/           Actual 2/          Actual as
Base Costs       Estimates with       or PCR            % of SAR
Contingencies       Estimate             with
(US$ '000)        (USS '000)         (USS '000)       Contingencies
Agricultural Development
Subsistence Crops                                488.3             659.7              451.5         68%
Cash Crops   - Vegetables                        743.4            1,004.4             744.2         74%
- Coffee & Cocoa                   731.1              987.8              527.2         53%
- Rubber                           277.8              375.3              508.8         136%
Farmers Supplies                                 114.3              154.4              33.7         22 %
Supervision & Training                           131.9             178.2               20.5         11%
Marketing                                        276.0             372.9              448.4         120%
Provincial Agricultural Studies                  897.3            1,212.3            1,079.0        89%
Small Livestock (PASI Support)                   140.4              189.7             332.0         175%
3,800.5           5,134.7            4,145.3         81%
Infrastructure 3/
Civil Works                                           -                  -          3,510.8           -
Maintenance                                           -                  -           1,961.6          -
2,793.3           3,773.9            5,472,4        145%
Health and Nutrition
Primary Health Care                              339.3             458.4              637.1         139%
Commrunity School Nutrition                       79.1             106.9               40.0         37%
High School Food Production                       93.3             126.1               88.3         70%
511.7             691.3              765.4         111%
Education
Central Community Schools                        193.0             260.8                9.5          4%
Luni Education Resource Center                   320.6             433.2              305.3         70%
Luumi High School Boarding                       207.3             280.1              237.7         85%
Telefomin Vocational Center                      158.3             213.9              327.5         153%
Aitape Vocatonal Institute                        65.4              88.4              100.9         114%
944.6            1,276.2             981.0         77%
Lumi District Special Program                      198.3              267.9             208.8          78%
Institution Building
Planning, Coord., Accounting                     795.7            1,075.0           1,527.1         142%
Staff Development Urut                           490.4             662.6              609.5         92%
1,286.1           1,737.6            2,136.6        123%
Unappraised Projects
Media Unit                                            -                  -             95.2           -
Commerce                                                                                9.3           -
1,298.7           1,754.6             104.5          6%
Less Developed AreasStudies                       1,450.4           1,959.6             351.2          18%
Total Project Baseline Costs                     12,283.6          16,595.9           14,165.2         85%
1/  Physical and price contingencies incorporated  into SAR base cost estimates.
2/  Source of actuals:- project accounts. Kina values converted to US$ at weighted IMF average exchange rate
for project period of K 1 =US$1.0947.
3/  SAR infrastructure component included only road construction costs. However, many variances with SAR
result from project accounting confusing the Civil Works disbursement category with this sub- component
due to nomenclature used. Some building costs have been indiscriminately allocated to this infrastructure
sub-component, whereas SAR estimates include building costs against the relevant sub- components.
Reallocation of building costs to sub-components proved impossible. However, Division of Works and
Supply and project records show that total sub-component road construction and maintenance costs were
US$2.74 and US$1.96 million respectively which indicates that the infrastructure component (i.e. roads
construction) exceeded SAR estimate, including contingencies, by 23%.



- 17 -
B. Project Financing
Planned                        Actual 1/
Bank      Govt      Total        Bank      Govt       Total
Civil Works                            4.52       1.13      5.65         3.83      0.96       4.79
Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture       0.22     0.06       0.28         0.46      0.12       0.58
Technical Assistance and Consultant    2.24       0.56      2.80         2.93      0.09       3.02
Services
Incremental Operating                  2.72       5.14      7.86         1.82      3.96       5.78
Total                                  9.70       6.89     16.59         9.04      5.12       14.16
Source of Data: Project annual audit reports, project accounts and mission estimates - Kina values converted
to US$ using IMF annual average mid-point exchange rates (see Appendix 1).
1/ Civil Works and Equipment categories were disbursed at 80% of actual, as stipulated in the Loan
Agreement. Technical Assistance and Incremental Operating Costs categories disbursed at variable rates
and the table shows mission estimates of final actual Bank disbursements against these two categories.
Government contribution may exceed value shown since expenditure records were incomplete.
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal Estimate at        PCR Estimate at
Full Development         Project Completion I/
Commodity                                  .... AnnuaDlncremental Production (tons)....
Home Gardens Produce                             9,000                  negligible
Commercial Vegetables                            5,700                      -300
Cocoa (wet bean)                                 3,600                      850
Rubber (cup lump)                               2,200                        35
Coffee (dry parchment)                            150                       -134
Poultry (young birds distributed)                5,000                    34,700
Pigs (young)                                     )300                       120
Goats (young)                                                                45
I/ A re-estimate of incremental production at full development was not possible - see Appendix 4.



- 18 -
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal                PCR
Estimate                Estimate
ERR: Agricultural and Roads Components         10%          Not re-estimated due to lack
of data.
Highland Vegetables Sub-component              16%          Not re-estimated due to lack
of data and negative
incremental production.
Comments: At appraisal, an illustrative rate of return was estimated for the agricultural and roads
components for a 30-year investment program. This analysis was prepared on the basis of hypothetical
production parameters and using an iterative process to determine the minimum increase in family
incomes for 90% of households required to give an economic rate of return of 10%. Although the ERR
has not been recalculated because of the lack of data and the impossibility of predicting incremental
production at full development, the low levels of incremental production strongly indicate that the ERR
would be negative if calculated following standard methodology. For a full explanation see Appendix
4. A second analysis was representative of highlands vegetable production and was also based on
hypothetical assumptions of production parameters due to insufficient data. Recalculation of this ERR
was not possible since the incremental benefits from this sub-components were negative.
C. Financial Impact
Appraisal               PCR
Estimate              Estimate
Percentage increase in beneficiary             11%           Not re-estimated due
household incomes.                                           to lack of data.
Comments: To achieve an ERR of 10% for the combined agricultural and roads investment
components of the project, the SAR estimated that the beneficiary annual farm incomes for 90% of the
provincial population would need to increase from an average of K 1,200 without the project to K
1,330 with the project at full development. Overall, this increase has not occurred so far, nor is
expected to occur at full development. The extent and adoption of project agricultural activities has
fallen far short of SAR targets (see Appendix 4).
---------- ~ ~ ~



- 19 -
D. Studies
Study             Purpose as Defmed at Appraisal              Status                     Impact
Land Use Studies         Aimed at establishing medium to     Feasibility Study completed    Report under review by
large-scale tree crop development.  on 31 December 1992.       GOPNG.
Less-Developed           Assistance to less developed        Two consultants funded for    Unknown.
Provinces Studies        provinces to prepare development    one year in Department of
plans.                             Agriculture and Livestock.
Status of consultancies and
reports; if any, unknown.
7. Status of Covenants
Agreement Section   Type of Covenant                Description of Covenant                       Status
Loan
Art. 3.06                   I           Employ not later than 30/6/85 (or such other agreed    In compliance.
date) or continue to employ personnel listed in
schedule 5.
Art. 3.07                  Ml           1) By 30/6/1987 design and implement data            Partial compliance.
gathering & evaluation system for project M&E.
2) Complete baseline survey for West Sepik            In compliance.
Province Agriculture Sector.
Art. 3.08                  Ml          A) Carry out studies in Part B (Development             In compliance.
Studies).
B) Fumish Bank copies of report.
Art. 3.09                  M2           1) Prepare and submit (by 31/12/85) a preliminary     In compliance.
report setting out training needs and Ist year
traimng program.
2) Final report by 31/12/88 evaluating program
and providing recommendations for future
programs.
Art. 3.10                  M3          Before undertaking any work on additional activities to  In compliance.
cost more than an aggregate equivalent of US$75,000
for any such subpart, approval by Bank required.
Art. 5.01                   I          A) Offered employment to personnel listed in            In compliance.
schedule 5, para. A.
B) Advertised employment for personnel position
in schedule Part B.
Institutional: I = Create/Revise/Update Organizations; Improve MGMT & MIS; agreements between or with agencies.
Managerial: Ml = Supervision of implementation (plan/action/reporting incl. procurement action, develop
accounting system).
M2 = Adequate training program.
M3 = Work program/budget prepared.



- 20 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Fiscal Year     Preparation       Appraisal       Negotiations     Supervision         Other            Total
1984             24.8             28.8             1.0                                                54.6
1985                                               4.1              2.2                               6.3
1986                                                                9.5                               9.5
1987                                                                11.5                              11.5
1988                                                                7.2                               7.2
1989                                                                6.3                               6.3
1990                                                                4.8                               4.8
1991                                                                7.8                               7.8
1992                                                                6.3                               6.3
1993                                                                0.5              9.0              9.5
Total            24.8             28.8              5.1             56.1             9.0              123.8
B. Missions
Stage of Project Cycle    Month/    No. of    Days in    Specializations    Performance Rating       Types of
Year    Persons    Field       Represented 1/         Status 2/         Problems 3/
(Pre) Appraisal             11/83         5         24       A, B. D, E, F
Loan Negotiations           8/84                   n.a.
Board Approval              10/84                  na.
Effectiveness               9/85                   n.a.
Supervision                  5/85         2          4             A                    -
Supervision                 4/86          1          7             A                    2
Supervision                  3/87         1         12             B
Supervision                 7/87          1          7             A                   2
Supervision                 4/88          1          7             A                   2
Supervision                 2/89          1          5             A                    2
Supervision                 11/89         2         16           A, C           2 (I on Covenants)
Supervision                 6/90          1          3             A            2 (I on Covenants)     T, TA, S
Supervision                 5/91          1         12             A            2 (I on Covenants)     T, TA, S
Supervision                 3/92          1          6             A            2 (I on Covenants)       TA, 0
1/ A = Agriculturalist; B = Civil Engineer; C = Public Health Specialist; D   Operations; E = Economist;
F = Financial Analyst.
2/ 1 = No problems; 2 = Moderate problems.
3/ T = Training; TA = Technical Assistance; S = Studies; 0 = Others.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 1. Project Annual Cost Su ary - By Category
(Kina)
Pre-1986        1986        1987         1988         1989         1990        1991         1992          1993
ITEM
Civil Works                      380,166   1,355,647      981,531      382,730      743,510      385,412      143,824
Vehicles & Equipment              99,214       76,498       49,795      103,622      28,381      163,548       13,086
Technical Assistance             704,266      119,032      164,429      185,827     148,887       93,091      280,715      865,086      301,031
Incremental Operating Costs    329,087        481,158     567,192      743,021      729,716      741,038      223,758
Total Eligible                 1,512,733   2,032,335   1,762,947   1,415,200   1,650,494   1,383,089          661,383      865,086      301,031
Ineligible                                     69,500     335,068      330,318      412,157      208,500
Total Project Costs            1,512,733   2,101,835   2,098,015   1,745,518   2,062,651   1,591,589          661,383      865,086      301,031
Cumulative                     1,512,733   3,614,568   5,712,583   7,458,101   9,520,752  11,112,341  11,773,724  12,638,810  12,939,841
Exchange Rates                    0.9877       1.0404       1.1384       1.2100      1.1633       1.0493       1.0498       1.0457       1.0457
Total Project Costs       USS  1,494,126   2,186,749   2,388,380   2,112,077   2,399,482   1,670,054          694,320     904,620       314,788
Cumulative                USS  1,494,126   3,680,876   6,069,256   8,181,333  10,580,814  12,250,869  12,945,189  13,849,809  14,164,598
Source:-  Project Annual Audit Reports (for the period 1984-1991) and unaudited project accounts (1992 and 1993).  Exchange rates used
are taken from IMF International Financial Statistics, Dec. 1992.  Average weighted exchange rate over project period: Kl : USS1.0947.
Motes:- Pre-1986 data (1984 & 1985) calcuLated from the audit submission (unaudited) for 1991. This showed the expenditure by category
for the period 1/4/84 to the end of the 1990 financial year. Subtraction of annual amounts for 1986-1990 was used to determine pre-1986
costs.
1992 and 1993 expenditure based on continuing expenditure on the investment study.
1991 technical assistance incLudes USS336,789, which was paid directly to consultants based in DAL and thus did not go through project
accounts.
1992 amount claimed for disbursement from Bank includes K865,086 for the investment study and K277,096 (K346,370 x 80%) which is for
eligible civil works, for which expenditure was incurred in previous years but not yet claimed.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Project Completion Report
Appedix 2.   Sua ry of DPI Statistics                                                (Page 1)
(1965-1991)
1965        1966         1967         1988           1989        1990           1991
l                              ~~~~~~~~~~Unit
93BSISTENCE FOW CROPS
-  Seed Distributed                        Kg                 -        504                                                                    -l
-  Seedlings from Pasi                     No.                -           -      5,447                                         -              -l
CONUERCIAL VEGETABLES
(A)  HIGHLNW
-  Nurseries                               No.                -           -            -                                                    10
-  Seedlings Distributed                   No.                -           -            -            -       62,000      155,000        132,000
-  Project Area Planted (30,000/ha)        Ha                 -           -            -            -           2.1         5.2            4.4
-  Production Sold                          T                 -        374          397          240            260         315            367
-  Value                                  K/kg                -       0.45        0.22              -              -           -          0.36
-  Farmers                                 No.                -           -            -            -            68          99             93
(B)  LOWLAND
-  Nurseries                               No.                -           -            -            -              -           -            23
-  Seedlings Distributed                   No.                -           -            -            -         6,000            -       141,950
-  Project Area Planted (30,000/ha)        Ha                 -         48           86             -           0.2            .           4.7
-  Production Sold                          T                 -         52           29             -            15           4             15
-  Value                                  K/kg                -       0.21        0.32              -              -           -          0.35
-  Farmers                                 No.                -        196           84             -            12            -            84
-  Nurseries                               No.               4           4            6            6              6            -            15
-  Seedlings Distributed                   No.         19,963       27,815      11,193        13,188          7,425       3,868          5,884
-  Project Area Planted (600/ha)           Ha            33.3         46.4         18.7         22.0           12.4         6.4            9.8
-  Area Total                              Ha              256         262         290           323            340         383            482
-  Area Producing                          Ha               45          46           86           98            111         144            194
-  Area Immature                           Ha              196         216         204           225            229         239            288
-  Production                               T                4           6            6           37             44          41             39
-  Value (price paid to farmers)          K/kg                -       0.25        0.25          0.25           0.23        0.23           0.20
-  Farmers                                 No.                -        622          42              -              -        125            147
-  Nurseries                               No.                -          5            8            4              5            -            12
-  Seedlings Distributed                   No.             794      11,665      18,869        25,465         14,472      35,935         18,885
-  Project Area Planted (1,250/ha)         Ha              0.6         9.3         15.1         20.4           11.6        28.7           15.1
-  Production (wet bean)                    T               64         110          87           271            768         807            882
-  Value (dry bean)                       K/kg                -           -        1.20         1.20           0.97        1.00           0.61
-  Farmers                                 No.                -           -        411              -              -           -           192
-  Fermentries                             No.                -           -           4            8               -         63             16
COFFEE
-  Production                               T              278          75          112           80            102           5             16
-  Value (dry parchment)                  K/kg                -       1.25        0.88          1.52           0.30            -          0.70
-  Farmers                                 No.          3,373             -          70             -              -         63             42
COPRA
-  Production                               T               11         666          524          481            289         282            685
-  Value                                  K/kg                -           -        0.15         0.20           0.20        0.20           0.17
-  Farmers                                 No.                -           -         600             -              -         42               -



PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 2.   Sumary of DPI Statistics                                            (Page 2)
(1985-1991)
1985        1986        1987         1988          1989        1990           1991
Unit
RICE
- Area                                    Ha
- Production                              T              31                   -                  -             -          8             14
-  Farmers                               No.                -           -           -            -           58          30            126
FRUIT TREES
- Nurseries                              No.                -          1          12 
- Seedlings Distributed                  No.                -      6,975      15,753             -             -      2,052          7,659
- Project Area Planted (180/ha)           Ha                -       38.8        87.5             -             -       11.4           42.6
Production                             T                 -           -           -            -              -         3             11
Farmers                               No.                -           -        431             -             -            -           51
LIVESTOCK SOLD OR DISTRIBUTED
FROM PASI
Poultry                               No.                -      1,947       5,291        7,950         9,407      16,435         34,737
Eggs in Province                      Doz.               -           -    16,068        26,572        29,120      35,204         34,632
Egg vaLue                            K/doz               -           -       2.40         2.40          2.36        2.40           2.40
Pigs                                  No.                -           -          9           70            82          135           114
Goats                                 No.                -           -           -          19            20           16            42
Sheep                                 No.                -           -           -            -             -            -            5
TRAINING - Course Attendance
Farmers                               No.             161         170         280          509           150          92             -
- Staff                                  No.             39           44          47           43            49          16             15
NISCELLANEOUS
- Agroforestry seedlings                 No.                -           -           -            -        9,000       8,632          8,250
SciiCE:  DPI Annual Reports.         I



- 24 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 3. Permanent Provincial StafT Positions Created Through WSPDP
COMPONENT/Position                                       SAR        Actual            Date
Estimate                     Appointed
INSTITUTIONAL BUILD1NG
Project Coordinator                                       1           1 1/            05/89
Finance Officer                                           I           11/             11/89
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer                         I            11/            11/89
Monitoring and Evaluation Assistant                       I            -              vacant
Project Officer                                           -            1              07/90
Staff Development Unit Manager                            1            1 1/          vacant
Staff Development Officers                                -            2              10/91
Social Planner (ex M&E assistant)                         -            1              07/90
Secretary/Keyboard  Operator                              -            1              07/90
AGRICULTURE
Food Crops Officers                                       I            1 1/           11/89
Food Crops Extension Officer                              1            1              04/89
Rural Development Technicians                             4            4              03/86
Rural Development Officers                                2            3 2/           06/89
Forestry Extension Agent                                  I            1              11/89
Cash Crop Extension Officer                               1            1              04/89
Nursery Manager                                           1            12/            08/86
Rubber Extension Officer                                  1            1 1/           04/90
Economics/Marketing  Officer                              1            1              11/88
Assistant Economics/Marketing  Officer                    1            1              10/91
HEALTH
Health Extension Officers                                 7           7               03/88
Nurse/Tutor                                               1            1              03/88
Community Health Care Workers                             -           14            currently
being filled
EDUCATION
Education Resource Centre Supervisor                      I            1              04/88
Clerk/Typist                                              I            1              10/89
Telefomin Vocational Centre Manager                       1            1 2/           03/91
Instructors                                               -           3               03/91
LUNII DISTRICT SPECIAL PROGRAMMUlE
VDC Manager                                               1            1              02/88
Instructors                                               -           3               02/88
UNAPPRAISED
Media Director                                            -            1              07/90
Illustrator                                               -            1              07/90
Computer Operator - Desktop Publishing                    -            1 2/           07/90
TOTAL                                                     31          59
1/ Position initially filled by expatriate contract staff.
2/ Position also filled by volunteer during part of the project period.



- 25 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 4: Note on Re-evaluation of Economic Impact
Appendix 4: Note on Re-evaluation of Economic Impact
1. A conventional economic analysis of the overall project was not undertaken at appraisal
because the specific impacts of the project were difficult to assess for several reasons. These
included: that some underlying technical coefficients and parameters of the subsistence
system needed to estimate incremental benefits were not known with sufficient accuracy;
that achievement of objectives depended on many factors, such as the accuracy and
efficiency of extension recommendations and the degree and speed of uptake of the
recommendations by farmers, all of which were difficult to anticipate; that there was a lack
of sufficient experience, in terms of farmer response under similar projects dealing with
isolated and subsistence societies; and, moreover, because the project constituted the start
of a long-term program and, as such, its impact, particularly on development of subsistence
systems, was difficult to separate from the impact of the long-term program.
2. In view of these factors, the SAR presented two indicative analyses to supplement the
qualitative evaluation made of the project. In the first analysis, the minimum increase in
family incomes (or agricultural output) needed to yield a 1 0% ERR for a 30-year program of
complementary investments in agriculture and roads was estimated and judged for feasibility.
Through an iterative process, in which numerous income levels were assessed, this analysis
concluded that, assuming 90% farmer adoption by full development, average household
incomes would need to increase by 1 1% to achieve an ERR of 10% for the Agricultural and
Roads sub-components.
3. The second SAR analysis presented a conventional rate of return analysis for one
agricultural sub-component (Highlands Vegetables), for which the necessary data were
available. The analysis assumed that 70% of households in the district would produce and
successfully market vegetables to the Ok Tedi mine by project year 1 0 and, more importantly,
that demand for vegetables by the mine would remain at 1 984 levels (1,600 tons). Based on
these assumptions, the analysis indicated an ERR of 1 6% for the sub-component.
4. A number of important factors have a bearing on the re-evaluation of the
economic impact of the project at completion. These include:
(a)    Because of a lack of reliable data on farming in the project area at appraisal, the
SAR proposed that a baseline survey be undertaken which would provide details
of the Province's agricultural sector including, inter alia, data on crop yields,
cropped areas, cultivation practices, marketed and non-marketed production. It
was anticipated that the data collected through this survey would enable
quantification and adjustment of the analyses made at appraisal. However,
neither the baseline survey nor any monitoring exercises undertaken during project
implementation, have collected the required information and there remains a
considerable lack of provincial agricultural data, particularly relating to crop
budgets, farm models and the prevailing farming systems. The weak project M&E
has also produced little data on project physical achievements and incremental



- 26 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 4: Note on Re-evaluation of Economic Impact
production. In this situation, it is almost impossible for the PCR mission to
undertake any meaningful revised economic analyses.
(b)     In the course of field visits, the PCR mission observed that the farming systems
in the province at appraisal had changed due to a number of factors, not least of
which was the fact that farmers were neglecting agriculture due to improved off-
farm income generating opportunities and reduced commodity prices. As a result,
the assumptions of production and household income used in the first SAR
analysis no longer represent actual farming systems in the Province and, as such,
they should not be used to assess the prevailing and future conditions.
(c)     It was noted at appraisal that there was a lack of alternative earning opportunities
in the Province - mainly as rural works or mine labor. This was expected to
encourage participation and adoption of the agricultural activities promoted by the
project. However, considerable development of small-scale gold prospecting has
occurred within the Province and this is believed to have contributed to the poor
performance of the  agricultural sub-components.   In some  inland  areas,
particularly those in which the project promoted rubber cultivation, it is estimated
that as many as 95% of smaliholder farmers are now regularly engaged in panning
for alluvial gold. Farmers are reported to be finding on average 2 grams of gold
per day which, at K 6.00 per gram, yields considerably better than farm labor
which is presently valued at K 2.00 per day.
(d)     Exogenous to the project, commodity prices have declined significantly since
project appraisal. In real terms, international cocoa and coffee prices in 1991
were respectively about 36% and 39% of their 1985 levels and this was also
reflected in the local prices paid to farmers (see Appendix 2). Rubber prices have
also declined over the project period and they are currently about 60% of their
levels at appraisal. The extent to which these price reductions have an adverse
impact on average farm incomes in the Province is unquantified, but it is expected
to be a reduction of the order of 30%-40%. The following table illustrates
commodity price changes over the project period:
Commodity Price Indexes (Constant 199O Prices)
1985     1988      1989      1990     1991
Iutanatlona Prices (1985 base)
Cocoa                               100        51        40       39        36
Rubber                              100       100        87       76        73
Coffee                              100        68        54       42        39
Copra                               100        74        65       41        50
Local Prices (1988 base)
Cocoa                                         100        74        65       37
Rubber                                        100        84        71       58
Coffee                                        100        18        -        33
Copta                                         100        91       78        61



- 27 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 4: Note on Re-evaluation of Economic Impact
(e)    Weak extension support for the main agricultural cropping activities originally
promoted by the project resulted in generally low adoption and, as a result, the
emphasis of the agricultural development sub-components was reassessed during
implementation to focus particularly on livestock production. This change in
emphasis and, as a consequence, the modified targets of the production activities
and incremental benefits, makes the basis on which the project was originally
assessed obsolete.  As such, re-estimation of the original analysis of the
investments in agriculture and roads would not provide a practical assessment of
the true impacts of the project. Adequate costs and returns data required to
undertake a quantitative analysis of either the original or supplemental enterprises
promoted under the project were not available.
(f)    Notwithstanding the above, the low levels of adoption and limited incremental
production benefits from the Agricultural and Roads sub-components provide a
strong indication that, if calculation was possible following standard methodology
and using quantified data rather than the assumptions presented in the SAR,
these sub-components would yield a negative ERR.
(g)    Commercial vegetable production in Telefomin and Oksapmin has declined over
the project period. The fall in production is a result of reduced demand from the
Ok Tedi mine, partly due to increased competitive vegetable production at the
mine site, and increased incidence of pests and diseases. Market prospects are
not expected to return to the levels assessed at appraisal in 1 984 and it is unlikely
that 70% of farmers in the district will produce commercial vegetables by project
year 10, as assumed in the SAR economic analysis. Current production of
vegetables is about half of 1 984 levels, but it is not possible to assess whether
the fall in production would have been greater if the project had not been
implemented -although this is unlikely. As the incremental production is assessed
to be negative, it is not worthwhile to re-estimate the ERR for the Highland
Vegetables Component as was done in the SAR.
(h)    The economic analyses in the SAR assumed subsequent projects would continue
the activities initiated through this project. However, within the context of low
farmer adoption, modified farming systems in the Province, revised emphasis of
project activities and reduced commodity prices, it is impossible to predict the
level or forms that future agricultural support might take if provided by the
Government or promulgated through subsequent projects in the Province.
(i)    Lastly, a significant proportion of the project sub-components relates to
institutional strengthening and social services strengthening, for which benefits
are unquantifiable.
5. As a result of the factors outlined above, it has not been possible to re-estimate the ERRs
based on the two analyses contained in the SAR. Further, given the paucity of data on
agriculture in the Province, an alternative analysis was neither feasible nor worthwhile. The
assumptions necessary for such an analysis by the PCR mission would not have any justifiable



- 28 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial Development Project
Project Completion Report
Appendix 4: Note on Re-evaluation of Economic Impact
foundation and, as such, would not provide even an indicative measure of the economic
impact of this project. In lieu of this, the PCR presents a qualitative assessment of the
performance of WSPDP in accordance with the indicators defined in the SAR.



- 29 -
PROJECT DATA SHEET
Input:
- Date: 23/3/1993
- Name: J.P. Wright
Report No:                      I Country:                            Financing institutionis:       Cost: 16.6              MS
45/93 CP-PNG 14 PCR                Papua New Guinea                   World Bank (IBRD)                    (at appraisal)
I                                                  ~~~~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~FE: 8.4  MS
TriLE: PAPUA NEW GUINEA: West Sepik Provincial DevelopmentProject
Date:   23 March 1993           T Sub-Sector: Agriculture                                           Type:   PCR
Syst.Code:                                                                                           Language: English
MISSION MEMBERS: J.P. Wright (Mission Leader), S. Colville-Stewart (Economist)
Date of Field Vlsit: 30 November to 20 December 1992
Main Features/CaractOristioues:
Objectives/Objectifs:
The objective of the project was to strengthen the human, agricultural, institutional and physical resource base in the West Sepik Province of Papua
New Guinea to enable directly-productive and market-orientated activities to be carried out and sustained.
Components/Composantes:
The main components of the project were: agricultural development, infrastructure development, health and nutrition services development,
education and training, Lumi District Special Programme and institution building.
- Duratlon/Dur&e: 1985-1992
- Cost/Cobt: (total miliion S) 14.2                                            FE:       -
- No. Benefclarles/NSombre de b4nflclairea: No data.
- Cost per beneficiary/Coat par benefklalre: No data.
- Area/Supersicle: Not applicable.
- Cost per ha./Coat par hectare: Not applicable.
- Main crops/Principales cultures: Vegetables, cocoa, rubber.
- Main benefits/Principaux benet)ces: Improved human, institutional and resource base.
- Ec. Rate of Return/Taux de rentabillte:              n.a.                                                                       l
Lai     Subjects of general interest/Stlets d'interet e6neral:                                        Ref.         Page No.:
1. Project design considerations.                                                                    Para 4.2     4
2. Effectiveness of supervision missions.                                                             Para 8.2    11
3. Project sustainability.                                                                            Para 7.1    11l
4. Monitoring and evaluation.                                                                         Para 5.13    8
KEY-WORDSJMOTS-CLES:               pending/en attente
Marketing, remote locations, communications.



