Docnmen or
The World B%k
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
*                            ~~~~/,v:  y>-6 S
R  pwtNim. P-3883-PNC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP.ESNT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt9.7 MILLION
TO THE
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
*                                           FOR A
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 11, 1984
Tdocumet km a ruucu dsIlO. and may be wd by recipieuts oaly h the pezfin -re of
I|offical duts. It conuSu myt mehdewhe be dbcksed witou Word }pak andberldion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALTS
Calendar Year 1983     April 1984
Currency Unit      =  Kina (K)
US1               =  K 0.833         =  K 0.85
1 1                =  US$1.20         =  US$1.18
K 1 million        =  US$1,200,000    =  US$1,180,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)    =        2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton) =        2,204.6 pounds (Lbs)
=        1.1023 short tons (2,000 lbs)
=        0.984Z long tons (2,240 lbs)
1 kilometer (km)  =         0.6214 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km) = 100 ha = 0.3861 square miles
I hectare (ha)     =        2.4711 acres
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUIbli
FISCAL YEAR
January  -December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBPRVViATIONS
BCL     -   Bougainville Copper, Ltd.
DPI     -   Division of Primary Industry (Agriculture)
ICO     -   International Coffee *rganization
LDP     -   Less Developed Provinces
XTDS   -   Medium-Term Development Strategy
NDS     -   National Development Strategy
IPO     -   National Planning Office
NPEP    -   National Public Exwmnditure Plan
PNG     -   Papua New Guinea



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINE&
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMEET PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrov:            Papua Ner Guinea (PSG)
eneficiary:       West Sepik Provincial Covernment
Amount:            US$9.7 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
_Terms:              The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:     The proposed project would constitute the first five-year
phase of a long-term effort to promote social and economic
development in West Sepik, one of the poorest provinces in
Papua New Guinea. The objective of the project is to
strengthen the human, agricultural, institutional and
physical resource base to enable directly-productive and
market-oriented activities to be carried out now and in the
future. Specifically, the project includes: (a) agricul-
tural development activities comprising subsistence agri-
culture, cash crops including tree crops and vegetables,
strengthening of support services and special studies to
investigate and prepare future agricultural projects;
(b) infrastructure development through road upgrading and
rehabilitation, airstrip upgrading and wharf construction;
5c) health and autrition services development including
?                             nutrition research in the Lumi district, a school nutrition
orogram, and training and supervision of primary health
care workers; (d) education and training improvement
comprising establishment of central comunity schools,
boarding facilities, an in-service training center, and
vocational training; and (e) institution building through
upgrading of the provincial management, financial and staff
development functions.
Benefits:          About 90Z of the 114,000 people living in the West Sepik
Province would benefit from the long-term development
program being initiated with this project. The benefits
expected are: some family cash income, more balanced
diets, better health, more schools and improved government
services.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tweir offiil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlk authorizatwion



Risks:             The main project risks are:  (a) potential maagmnt and
coordination problems arising from the project's relative
complezity and remote location; and (b) poor participant
response and the possibility of introducing culturally
inappropriate practices. The risk of law response has been
reduced by proposing modest modifications in the farming
system, requiring low but adequate levels of skills and
technology, and directing the project to areas where accep-
tance is likely to be high. Also, the duties of the moni-
toring and-evaluation officer would include assessment of
the response of participants to project activities and
recommendation of appropriate modifications. To avoid any
recruitment risk, the appointment of key staff is being
done before project initiation. A Project Coordinator
would be appointed to ensure coordination of the various
project components.



- 12l2 -
Estimated Cost:                                      Local la   Foreig   Total
1usS million)
Agricultural development            2.1        1.7     3.8
Infrastructure       -              1.1        1.7     2.8
Health and nutrition                0.3        0.2     0.5
Education and training              0.5        0.4     0.9
Luni special program                0.1        0.1     0.2
*                             Institution building                0.7        0.6      1.3
Unappraised component               0.8        0.5      1.3
LDP planning studies                0.4        1.1      1.5
Base cost estimate                6.0        6.3    12.3
Physical contingencies              0.4        0.5     0.9
Price contingencies                 1.8        1.6     3.4
Total Project Cost             8.2        8.4    16.6
Front-end Fee on Bank loan           -         0.02    0.02
Total Financing Required          8.20       8.42   16.62
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                1.28       8.42    9.70
Government                          6.92        -      6.92
Total                          8.20       8.42   16.62
Estimated
Disbursements:                    FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91
(USS million)
AnnuaL           0.4   0.8   2.4   1.8   1.5   1.7   1.1
Cr.miulative     0.4   1.2   3.6   5.4   6.9   8.6   9.7
Rate of Return:    Given the nature of the project, no overall rate of return
has been calculated.
Staff Appraisal
Report:          Report No. 5017-PNG, dated October 11, 1984.
Map: IBRD 17935
/a   Including US$0.4 million for taxes and duties.



REPORT AND RECOMENDAflON OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTr E DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Independent State of Papua New Cuinea for the equivalent of US$9.7 mil-
lion, including the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a West Sepik
Provincial Development Project. The loan will have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Development Policies
and Prospects for the 1980s" (Report No. 3544a-PNC), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. This section refLects the findings of
subsequent economic missions, and draws upon various country documents and
recent IMF work on Papua New Guinea (PNG).
Structure of the Economy
3.        Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains, rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely-scattered
islands. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral re-
sources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential. The
capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an enclave,
with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the largest urban
settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society.  Per capita GCP in
1983 is estimated at USS800. Despite its relatively high per capita income,
however, Papua New Guinea remains an exceedingly poor country, where the
majority of the multi-tribal society lives at a level at, or scarcely above,
subsistence. The figures for monetary incomes are biased upwards by the
inclusion of the incomes-of expatriates and the value-added of enclave enter-
prises. The population as of mid-1983 was about 3.1 million, spread among 19
provinces (with populations ranging from 26,000 to 310,000), each with its own
assembly and separate administrative apparatus.
4.        The modern sector of the economy is dominated by the enclave sector,
particularly copper mining and associated investments, and by the public sec-
tor. In the late 1970s copper, through Bougainville Copper, Ltd. (BCL),
accounted for about 15% of GDP; by 1982 this had fallen to 7.8% as prices de-
clined sharply and as the more productive veins were being exhausted. How-
ever, new investments in 1982, together with some improvement in copper and
gold prices, brought BCL's value-added to 10.5% of CDP in 1983. With declin-
ing ore grades and prices, performance is likely to be considerably less good
in 1984. Construction of the new Ok Tedi mine generated about 12Z of GDP in
1983 (Largely tbhvugh capital investments which represented roughly 45% of



- 2 -
PNG's total investments), thus more than compensating for the decline in BCL;
it is also the increase in investments in Ok Tedi which was the major contri-
,utor to economic growth in 1983. Beginning in June 1984 as gold production
came onstream, Ok Tedi's contributions to value-added in the mining sector
should begin to grow to a point where, together with new copper production,
they reach about 12.5% of GDP in 1987. Non-mining industry accounts for
roughLy 9Z, together with new copper production of GDP - Low for a country of
PNG's per capita income - while government services, heavily dominated by
expatriates in the upper ranks, account for about one-quarter of the total.
Strikingly, the primary sector, which employs about 85X of tae labor force,
only contributes 35% of GDP, a large portion of which is in the subsistence
sector.
5.        PIG's growth record has been quite mixed; for the decade of the
1970s as a whole, real per capita growth was negative at -0.2% per annum
despite the strong growth in copper exports. The latter half of the decade
was even worse in per capita income terms (-0.5Z per annum), despite some good
years, particularly 1978-79. The terms of trade effects on GDP during the
seventies were roughly neutral with respect to their impact on economic acti-
vity. Since 1980, real GDP has stagnated - implying a decline in real per
capita income of about 2.4% through 1982. GDP growth for 1983 is estimated at
2.0%, lower than the 2.3% population growth, but still an improvement over the
earlier years. In these years the deterioration in the terms of trade did
bite as the Government cut back services and capital investments and restrict-
ed the growth in the money supply to protect the balance of payments and the
value of the Kina. With the unfavorable terms of trade effect, gross domestic
income has fallen 20% (as compared with a nearly constant GDP) since 1979. On
the other hand, growth of GDP is expected by the Government to average 4.5%
between 1983 and 1987 (2.3% per capita), largely because of investments
(direct and induced) and exports associated with the Ok Tedi mine. While
growth rates may in fact improve somewhat as a result of the impact of
Ok Tedi, continued poor agricultural performance, together with a cautious
demand management policy, may finally result in the veak growth performance
which characterized the decade of the 1970s.
6.        As suggested above, the economy has been severely affected by the
sharp drop in commodity prices that began in 1980. The price of copper drop-
ped to its lowest level in 30 years, leading to a fall of K 42 million in
budgetary resources derived from BCL between 1981 and 1982, and a further fall
of K 19 million in 1983. The prices of agricultural export commodities have
fallen by half since the late 1970s, although some improvement took place in
1983. Lower export receipts depressed economic activity and reduced imports
through 1982. In 1983, however, export receipts jumped by over 20Z, while
imports rose by 10Z (mainly becau3e of capital goods imports associated with
Ok Tedi). Even then, however, exports are not expected to regain their 1979
level until 1984, when gold began to be exported from the Ok Tedi mine. After
taking account of the budget support grant from Australia (para. 19), the cur-
rent account deficit in 1982 was US$480 million, or 19.7Z of GDP. This
improved to US$393 million in 1983, roughly equal to 16.4Z of GDP. With other
official and private capital flovs as projected, the expected deficits will be
covered without undue strain on reserves or on the debt-service ratio which
was about 7.6% in 1983 and which is projected to fall somewhat in 1984. The



- 3 -
role of the Australian grant is significant in supporting higher levels of
government expenditures, CDP and imports than wouLd otherwise be possible with
PNG's own resources.
7.        In view of the fact that most of its export prices have been subject
to fluctuations, often sharp, the Government has taken a number of measures to
reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the economy and on the producers of
export crops. The Mineral Resources Stabilization Fund was designed to smooth
the impact of fluctuating copper nw-Lces on the budget, and stabilization funds
for coffee, cocoa and copra were designed to reduce the oscillations in prices
received by the producers. While these funds for agricultural products have
had the effect of dampening price-induced supply responses, they have contri-
buted to the stability of the economy. For the most part they have shielded
producers from income declines and, with the exception of the copra fund,
their total resources are still relatively healthy as a result of substantial
levies accumulating in the Late 1970s, when export prices were at historical
highs.
8.        Following the establishment, prior to independence from Australia in
1975, of the Minimum Wage Boards between 1972 and 1976, real minimum wages
more than doubled in that period, giving PNG the highest wage costs of the
developing countries in the region. The urban minimum wage is currently equal
to nearly US$50 per week. Since independence, two three-year wage agreements
limited the rise of both public and private sector vges to that of the
consumer price index, subject to an annual maximum o. 11.75Z, thus ending the
sharp upward spiral of real wages that occurred during 1972-76. The wage
situation was accompanied by a "hard kina" policy causing the kina to appre-
ciate vis-a-vis PNG's major trading partners, which had the effect of dampen-
ing wage demands and keeping down prices of imports (401 of GDP by value).
This tended to offset somewhat imported inflation, so that the increase in
domestic price levels has averaged about 7.51 between 1977 and end-1982 as
compared with the international inflation iadex of 8.7X. Price levels over
1981-82 have moderated further to about 6.21, which is probably as much a
reflection of the fall in business activity as it is of the moderation of
import prices. Prices in 1983 rose 8.5Z with the devaluation of the kina
v       along with that of the Australian dollar in March 1983.
9.        Increasingly concerned about the negative impact of high real wages
on the economy, the Government sought to impose a three-year freeze on urban
wages. The Minimum Wage Board rejected this stringent approach proposed by
the Government, deciding in favor of full indexation of the first five
percentage point change in the CPI, but with no further indexation. This
resulted in an approximate 3.5Z erosion in real wages in 1983. The kina had
been allowed to appreciate until March 1983, when parity with the Australian
dollar was maintained at the time of its 1OZ devaluation, thus resulting in a
5.5% devaluation of the kina against its basket of currencies. The Government
is gradually reducing the real value of the kina, both through wage restraint
and - although not officially - through a very gradual downward float.
10.       The Government has also responded to its straitened circumstances by
raising taxes in 1982 and 1983 in face of a deflationary situation, lowering
government expenditure by 10% in the latter year, and laying off some 2,000



- 4 -
employees, about 4Z of the total public service. Preliminary estimates indi-
cate that the public deficit in 1983 was K 84.2 million, K 28 million under
budget and the lowest deficit since 1980. This reflected a 2X real cut in
total,7pending, and amounted to about 4Z of estimated GDP, down from 6.2Z in
1982.    As was the case in 1982, little of this was financed by borrowing
from the Central Bank. Borrowings from foreign comercial banks are estimated
at about US$60 million in 1983, as compared with US$100 million in 1982. The
1984 budget estimate projects a deficit of K 83 million. No commercial for-
eign borrowings by the Government are expected for this year.
Development Strategy and Planning
11.       In the post-independence period a concerted effort was made to
define a set of economic and social priorities according to which government
resources were to be allocated.  However, as noted above, more weight had been
given to developing a decision-making process for the budgeting of government
resources than to the preparation and implementation of a comprehensive
development plan. While a National Development Strategy was defined and stra-
tegic objectives identified as the basis for resource allocation, these had
not represented a basis for a growth-oriented development strategy as such.
12.       The National Development Strategy (NDS) placed a high priority on
improving the quality of life for the rural population, focusing on rural
development in the less developed areas of the country. While this focus
remains, it is now to be set within the context of a growth-oriented stra-
tegy. This objective recognizes not only the agricultural potential of the
country, but also the fact that for quite a few generations the agricultural
sector will be the main source of employment.
13.       For several years, PNG has had a four-year plan known as the
National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), which institutionalized the NDS.
This plan focussed on capital expenditures for the first year of the (rolling)
plan, concentrating more on the recurrent costs of capital projects and the
ability of the budget to support them. (This feature is rare in developing
country planning, and is expected to be retained under the new planning system
being worked out.) Now, reflecting the Bank's suggestions underlining the
need for the country to develop a longer-term view about where it was going2/
and how it was going to get there, both in the various sectors and overall,
the Government has decided to adopt a Five Year Plan in late 1985.
14.       The Government's current approach to carrying out its intentions is
to develop a Medium-Term Development Strategy (MTDS). This would: (a) review
the current economic situation and forecast how it could be expected to deve-
lop over the next five years, working out an appropriate financing strategy;
(b) involve the preparation of mediumrterm sectoral strategies focussing on
1/   This figure takes Australian budget support into account.
21   See "Public Sector Managemexnt .n Papua New Guinea:  An Administrative
Overview," June 27, 1983. Report No. 4396-PNC.



-5-
physical targets; and (c) work out the division of available resources among
the various sectors and agencies. In conjunction with the MTDS, a Medium-Term
Development Program, intended to be a five-year indicative plan, will be drawn
up. This will follow sectoral objectives and resource allocations for each
Department as agreed by the Cabinet.
Development Issues
15.       The major factors which will affect the Government's ability to pro-
mote economic development are the decentralization of government activities,
the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and financial resources,
and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy formulation and invest-
ment in the agricultural sector.
16.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the national Government's ability to pursue its priorities,
while inadequate staffing limits the capabilities of the provinces to develop
their own plans. PNG's topography has made it a country of scattered tribes
and a degree of political decentralization was a necessary response to local
pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory and
financial control in some areas and will share power with the NationaL
Government in others. Provincial governments are financed through national
government conditional and unconditional grants, national government refunds
of certain revenues and, to a very limited extent, their own taxation
measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend according to
their own priorities, are by far the most important source of finance; but,
while in the 1984 budget they comprised over 70Z of the total receipts of the
provinces, they amounted to less than one quarter of total national government
revenues. One of the most serious problems facing provincial governments is
the shortage of trained and experienced staff, and the most urgent priority of
the provinces is to develop the capability for budgeting, planning, and
project identification and preparation.
17.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled manpower
and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals, especially consid-
ering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its first graduates as
recently as 1972.  However, the country still relies heavily on expatriates
for many necessary services. This situation has created a relatively high-
cost government financed partly be the Australian grant (equal to about 10X of
GDP, or about one-third of total government revenues. The establishment of
provincial governments is adding to the pressures on existing staff, and the
policy of localizing positions held by expatriates adds to the demand for
trained Papua New Guineans.
18.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance emphasize
modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure, accompa-
nied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid from Australia. Domestic
revenue accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68, 60X of
the total in FY76 (immed:. tely after independen:e); and 66Z in 1983.  Over the
past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine has been a major source of
domestic revenue, averaging 18Z of the total and reaching a peak of 27% in



-6 -
FY76, but falling to 3.3% in 1983. While mineral revenues will be substan-
tially restored after 1984, when the Ok Tedi mine became fully operational,
revenues from these sources may not regain their former share of overall
revenues.
19.       The Australian grant, which amounted to about K 185 million in 1982,
was designed to decline by 5% a year in real terms from its 1980 Australian
dollar level over the 1980/81-1985/86 period. However, because of PNG's bud-
getary difficulties, the rate of decline was renegotiated to 1X beginning in
1983/84, 2X in 1984/85 and 3% in 1985/86.
20.       Capital expenditures (including those financed by ezternal assist-
ance) as a share of the total budget have been relatively modest.  These
expenditures doubled between 1978 and 1980 (to reach 20% of the total budget),
and they have remained at those nominal levels since then. While in the past
the availability of the Australian grant, together with substantial revenue
from the mining sector, may have contrib-ited to a certain laxity in financial
discipline in the area of current expenditures (particularly for wages and
salaries), this situation no longer prevails. Even with fairly substantial
increases in taxes over the period (but excluding the Australian grant)
government revenues have stagnated between 1980 and 1982. However, reflecting
the improvement in commodity prices of 1983, together with the improvement in
the Australian grant, 1983 revenues were up over 10.
21.       While economic management has been largely sound, the country's
growth performance has been disappointing. Of particular concern is a lack of
growth in the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the
additions to the labor force in the foreseeable future. Despite a great
potential for agricultural development, even with the current world price
situation, investment in the sector remains low, and its prospects for the
coming decade are not bright unless steps are taken to bolster its growth.
The major constraints have been inadequate extension services for small-
holders, a lack of finance, land laws which prevent the consolidation of
holdings too small for economic development, and a shortage of managerial
talent. The country faces a particularly serious problem in the area of
coffee. Production of this crop has fared better than other major agricul-
tural exports, with production now about 50% over the International Coffee
Organization (ICO) quota. Unfortunately, sales to the non-ICO market bring a
price 40% below the ICO price. The Government recognizes this problem and
intensive studies on crop diversification are being undertaken.
External Sector
22.       PNG experienced huge trade deficits prior to the introduction of
copper exports in FY73. The current account deficit was around one quarter of
GDP in the early 1970s. Imports were over 50Z of GDP, whereas exports were
only about one third as high. Since FY73, however, earnings from copper ex-
ports have dwarfed those from other commodities, and, except for small defi-
cits in F175/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on current
account, which includes the large Australian grant, remained positive, despite
large service payments, and reserves of foreign exchange reached ten months'
worth of imports in mid-1979. However, falling commodity prices, a decline in



-7-
the copper content of the Bougainville mine and continued inflation in the
import sector have dramatically changed the situation, with the current
account turning from a positive K 55 million in 1979 to a negative K 327 mil-
lion (about 16% of GDP) in 1983. In that year, the overall balance, at K 83
million, was positive for the first time since 1979, and international
reserves are now sufficient to cover 5.3 months of imports.
23.       The current account deficit is likely to be substantial through
1984, remaining roughly at the same high levels as in 1983, and only gradually
declining through 1986. This will be the case not only because of the adverse
commodity price situation, but also because requirements for the construction
of Ok Tedi are expected to cause imports to grow faster than exports, at least
well into 1984.  Especially with the help of Ok Tedi gold exports and contin-
uing conservative demand management, exports are expected to begin again to
exceed imports and the resource balance is expected to turn positive by the
mid-1980s. During the period in question (1983-1987), PNG is likely to
require an average net capital inflow of about US$300 million p.a. The
minerals sector is expected to finance considerably more than over half of the
infLow through direct foreign investment and borrowing: Ok Tedi-related
borrowings were US$330 million in 1983. With respect to official borrowings,
pubLic debt service, estimated at 7.6% in 1983, is not expected to grow
further (it was 5.0% in 1981), and by 1990 should be down to 3Z. Thus despiLe
a large measured current account deficit, PNG's external position is a highly
comfortable one. Total external public debt outstar-eing as of December 31,
1982 amounted ro US$748 million, of which US$196 milLion (26Z) was owed to the
Bank Group. Debt service payments to the Bank Group are only 8Z of total debt
service payments.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       As of September 30, 1984, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of 13 loans and 13 development credits, totalling US$308.3 mil-
lion. The first operation was a telecommunications loan of US$7.0 million
approved in 1968; most recently a secondary education project (US$49.3 mil-
lion) was approved by the Board in March 1984. Project implementation has
been satisfactory. The first rural development project in the Southern
*         Highlands experienced some difficulties with recruitment of essential
expatriate staff as the rapid turnover of expatriates and the transitional
problems of recruiting and training their replacements led to delays.
Physical implementation is now approximately on schedule.  As of September 30,
1984, nine credits and six loans were fully disbursed, and the loans and
credits to Papua New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$287.2
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits.
25.       In recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture with
strong support ir. education and transport and some lending for energy. The
Bank's strategy for future lending is b.ased on three objectives: (a) support
for more growth-oriented policies and institutions; (b) development of oppor-
tunities for permanent, cash-economy employment based on the substantial agri-
cultural resoirces of the country; and (c) promotion of human resource devel-



opment. A nucleus estates project, a rural roads project and a third power
project are under preparation. The proposed West Sepik provincial development
project would assist one of the least developed provinces in line with the
above objectives.
26.       Disbursemnet performance on Sank Group projects has been extremely
varied. Shortly before and just after independence, disbursement rates were
unusually high, reflecting the relatively small and simpLe pre-independence
projects and the fact that they were "maged by an experienced expatriate
civil service. The disbursement vate;' for FY84 was 31.21, compared to an
average of 28.6Z for FY80-84. Disbursement rates for seLected comparators for
FY8O-84 were as follows: Colombia - 22.7Z; Philippines - 22.5%; Morocco -             9
16.1Z and Benin - 26.8Z. It does not seem possible to determine a trend since
low disbursement years are followed by a high disbursement year, then another
low disbursement year. PSG's disbursement figures reflect periodic disburse-
ments of substantial amounts against individual large projects rather than
steady disbursements for all projects.
PART III: AREA DEVELOPMENT OF IEST SEPIK PROVINCE
27.       Because of concern about uneven economic and social development in
PUG, the Government has identified nine (out of a national total of 19) less
developed provinces (LDPs), including West Sepik, which rank below the
national average with respect to development indicators measuring health,
education, land availability, and transport. Incomes of most people residing
in the LDPs are less than 30Z of the per capita national average. Raising the
living standard of people in the LDPs and developing more even distribution of
public and private services and economic opportunities have become increasing-
ly important features of the Government's development plans. At present the
Government is implementing multi-sectoral projects in three LDPs, two with
Bank financing in the Southern Highlands and Enga, and one in East Sepik
financed by the Asian Development Bank. The Bank's involvement in the LDP
program has had a noteworthy impact on the design of projects under the
program, in particular in formulating measures to ensure that the projects are
apprepriate on financial and economic grounds and sound on technical and
implementation aspects. The proposed project is also suitably designed and
its nature and thrust are in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy
for PUC. An important contribution of the project would be promoting provin-
cial institution building and development of new subsistence farming tech-
nologies and approaches. Lessons learned from these efforts-would benefit
other provinces. Civen the limited resources available to the Government, the
Bank's participation is crucial to implementation of the proposed project.
3/ The disbursement rate is derived by dividing the actual disbursement
during the fiscal year by the net cumulative undisbursed balance.



-9-
Project Area
28.       West Sepik is a remote province, with an area of about 36,000 sq km
or about 7Z of the country. It has three broadly defined zones: a high moun-
tainous region to the south, the Sepik River Basin in the middle, and a low
coastal mountain range and narrow littoral strip to the north. The predom-
inant vegetation is rain forest with patches of grassland. It has a popula-
tion of about 114,000 and a population density averaging 3.1 per sq km. West
Sepik is one of the most rural provinces, with about 94Z of the population
living in rural areas; the remainder live in urban government centers, the
largest of which is Vanimo with a population of about 3,000. Population is
growing at about 2.5Z p.a., and is likely to increase in the future, given the
high proportion of young people, improvements in health services and low
emigration.
29.       The province is one of the last areas to be brought under the
Government's administrative control, and has had sustained contact with the
outside world for only about 40 years. In 1978 it was given the status of a
province. Public administration in the province is the responsibility of the
Department of West Sepik.
30.       Socio-Cultural Environment. The province still remains a clan-based
subsistence-oriented society with a very rudimentary standard of hygiene,
clothing and shelter. There is little political integration beyond the clan,
which constitutes the basic unit of land tenure. Although clan lands have
recognizable boundaries, they are often subject to disputes. Each family has
access to land for food gardens, but gardening and hunting rights are very
complex and vary among the clans. Men undertake the heavy tas s of clearing
and preparing the land, ard hunting and gathering, while women tend the food
gardens. Men devote a fair part of their time to ceremonies and rituals.
Despite the traditional nature of the West Sepik people, there is evidence of
a general desire for socio-economic development. In general local attitudes
and customs and the land-tenure system do not pose an insurmountable barrier
to development and change.
31.       Subsistence agriculture in the province differs according to the
area. In the higher altitudes and some coastal areas, the predominant activi-
ty is gardening, the main crops being sweet potato and taro. Everywhere else,
the people rely principally on cultivated and wild stands of sago. Hunting
and gathering are coon to all rural people. The subsistence system based on
sago is inadequate in two respects. It does not provide good nutrition and in
certain areas it is not productive enough to feed the population; it is impor-
tant to consider ways of increasing food production. Mere expansion of the
subsistence system would not be an adequate solution since it provides a poor
diet. What is needed is a diversification of the system to include new food
crops vith better nutritional value. Currently, the development of food crops
is constrained by weak extension services and lack of adaptive research on
suitable crops and technologies.
32.       Except for pigs which are consumed mainly at rituals, livestock is
not of great importance. However, its introduction could provide a substan-
tial source of protein and a substitute for dwindling bush game. Farmers have



- 10 -
responded well to producing poultry and livestock for home consumption; in
many instances local markets have developed for these products. Fishing is
still,primarily for subsistence, although the Division of Primary Industry
(DPI)- , with moderate success, has been encouraging comercial development of
small-scale coastal fishing, salted fish and crocodile hunting for skins.
33.       Commercial Agriculture. Around 30% of the provincial population is
involved to some eztent in cash cropping of either tree crops or vegetables.
In 1982 total production of the main tree crops amounted to only 30 tons of
cocoa, 800 tons of copra and 90 tons of coffee; this is less than 0.25Z of
national cash crop output. Most of the production is by suallholders and
average holdings range from 0.15-J.3 ha. To increase smallholder planting,
DPI has a modest seedling distri_bution program which enables new planting of
about 5-20 ha annually for the various crops. Income from these crops is very
low becaus2 of low yields and poor quality of product. Inadequate supply of
good seedlings, poor cultivation and harvesting practices, and lack of exten-
sion have all contributed to the unsatisfactory yields and production.
Further, the poor road network and marketing infrastructure have inhibited
marketing and, consequently, production.
34.       DPI has recently begun to encourage smallholder production of vege-
tables (as cash crops) on a limited scale. As a result of strong DPI support
through extension, planting material supply and marketing assistance, a suc-
cessful vegetable project has been in operation in the Telefomin-Oksapmin area
supplying vegetables to the Ok Tedi mine in the neighborLng province. Demand
is growing rapidly at Ok Tedi and the coastal towns, and efforts are needed to
increase the supply base and improve existing marketing infrastructure.
35.       There is a significant forestry potential in the province and the
Covernment is seeking joint venture partners for a large logging project
(100,000 ha) in the Vanimo District.
36.       Provincial Economy. Owing to the nature of the socio-economic
system and limited development efforts so far, the provincial economy is
characterized by lack of a developed monetary sector as well as a limited
number of commercial activities.  Of the province's total estimated value of
output in 1983 (K 24 million), the subsistence sector accounts for about 952
(national average is only 15Z), cash crops for only about 1S, and government
expenditures for the remaining 42. There are almost no employment
opportunities outside the Goverment and the church organizations.
37.       Public Services.  West Sepik is one of the least developed provinces
in terms of access to public services and, with respect to development, the
National Planning Office's (NPO) composite development index ranks it last
among the 19 provinces. The ratio of government expenditures and staff to
population is among the lowest ifi the country. The health of the population
is the worst of all the provinces. This is partly due to local diet and
partly to the inadequacy and poor quality of the available health services,
4/   References are to provincial offices unless otherwise stated.



- 11 -
which generally suffer from a lack of both proper equipment and adequately
trained staff. The educational standards are low and falling, particularly in
the isolated community scbools which serve scattered and remote populations.
38.       Agr-cultural Support Services.  DPI is responsible for extension
(including input supply and farmer training) and marketing support. In
general, crop extension has been inadequate, and little effort has gone into
food crops or livestock. Moreover, the effectiveness of extension has been
limited because of the concentration of extension staff in the larger district
centers, poor staff mobility due to the widely dispersed population,
rudimmetary and expensive transportation network and limited travel funds, and
inadequate experience, supervision and training. Narketing is also a major
constraint to cash crop development; because of low volumes, poor access and
weak marketing infrastructure, private traders operate in very few areas. To
provide initial impetus, DPI has to step in, and in some cases has been very
successful in organizing the marketing system and letting the private sector
take over when sufficient business volume was reached.
39.       Roads. One of the most important constraints to improving
agriculture and the availability of government services in the province is the
rudimentary transportation network. Light aircraft play a major role in the
provinciaL passenger and freight traffic. The provincial road network is
fragmented and does not provide intra-provincial connections. Of the
province's some 620 km of roads, 280 km are nationai highways, and in general
are adequately maintained. The rest are in bad condition, because of lack of
adequate maintenance.
PART rV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was prepared by the West Sepik Provincial
Government, with assistance from the National Government. The Bank appraised
the project in November 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from
August 27 to 29, 1984. The PNG delegation was led by Mr. Robert Kaul, Assi-
stant Secretary, Ministry of Finance.   A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5017-
PNG, dated October 11, 1984) is being distributed separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Scope
41.       The project is the first five-year phase of a 30- to 40-year program
to bring the province out of its isolation and into a more integrated and
modern way of life. It responds both to the people's frequently reiterated
desire for better roads, health services, schools and opportunities to
increase cash income, and the development goals of the province particularly
to increase growth in the agriculture sector, improve effectiveness of govern-
ment services, and increase the provincial revenue base. The project would
accelerate the building of a human, agricultural, institutional and physical
resource base for sustained economic growth. A positive feature of the pro-
ject is the involvement of local leaders, technocrats and provincial inhabi-
tants in its preparation. Further, it concentrates on improvement and



- 12 -
expansion of existing activities, and is designed to ensure that the
components and the envisaged pace of change are feasible in the provincial
sociocultural setting.
42.       The project's main development effort aims to increase marketed and
nonmarketed agricultural output (and consequently family incomes) through en-
couraging farmers to increase cash crop plantings and diversifying food pro-
duction. The strategy employed is to strengthen agricultural support services
and improve transport, thereby enabling farmers to have access to markets,
technical advice, planting material and other inputs. To implement the agri-
cultural components, the farmers will be expected to allocate more time to
cultivation and less to hunting, gathering and rituals. The development
approach is based on minimizing the development costs and farmers' labor and
input requirements; on limited use of agro-chemicals; and on siting the
project activities in areas where acceptance is likely to be high.
43.       The project involves:  (a) agricultural development comprising
subsistence agriculture, cash crops, including tree crops and vegetables,
strengthening of support services and special studies to investigate and pre-
pare future agricultural projects; (b) infrastructure development, including
road upgrading and rehabilitation, airstrip upgrading and wharf construction;
(c) health and nutrition services development including malnutrition research
in the Luni district, a school nutrition program, and training and supervision
of primary health care workers; (d) education and training improvement
comprising establishment of central commmity schools, boarding facilities, an
in-service training center, and vocational training; and, Ce) institution-
building through upgrading of the provincial management, financial and staff
development functions.
Detailed Description
44.       Agricultural Development CUS$3.8 million).5'  With the objective of
increasing and diversifying subsistence food production, the project would
establish a food crops section to: Ca) train and guide extension staff in
developing subsistence farming systems through promotion of simple technolo-
gical changes, establishment of nutritionally higher value food gardens and
use of basic tools; (b) initiate adaptive research on lowland subsistence
farming; and (c) assist with a survey of subsistence gardening practices
throughout the province to establish baseline data. Work by the section,
comprising an expatriate horticulturist and a counterpart national staff would
result in increased yields and diversification of food production, improved
soil management, and reduction of fallowing. By the #-ad of the project period
it is expected that about 2,000 fami'Lies would be reached and garden areas
would increase by about 100 ha.
45.       Production of cash crops, to raise family incomes, would be
increased by improving and ezpanding the production of temperate vegetables,
rubber, coffee and cocoa. To meet a rising demand for vegetables, production
51 Figures in parentheses are base line costs, exclusive of contingencies.



- 13 -
and marketing of vegetables would be --zpported by recruitment of additional
extension workers, the establishment of additional nurseries in order to
increase distribution of planting material and seeds, the construction of new
marketing facilities and expansion of existing facilities, and upgrading of
transport infrastructure.
46.       A major thrust of the project is to expand tree crop production and
productivity in areas with good road access and where these crops are already
established. Additional extension staff would be recruited, nurseries esta-
blished, DPI outstations upgraded and marketing assistance provided. The pro-
ject would increase cocoa and rubber plantings through the provision of good
quality planting material, upgrade existing tree crop smallholders through
increased technical assistance on better cultivation and barvesting practices,
and assist with marketing and processing. The project would assist 800 fami-
lies plant about 160 ha of cocoa, 1,000 existing coffeelcocoa growers improve
operations, 300 farmers plant about 100 ha of rubber, and 500 existing pro-
ducers market their rubber.
47.       The project would also strengthen the province's other agricultural
support services as follows: (a) the livestock station at Pasi would be up-
graded so that it could provide young livestock to smallholders. Poultry and
livestock distribution is important to improve nutrition and in some cases to
provide a source of cash income; (b) distribution oi basic agricultural tools
and inputs would be supported in remote areas through DPI outstations; and
(c) both DPI field staff supervision and the cash crop marketing section would
be strengthened.
48.       To prepare for future agricultural development under subsequent
projects, funds have been provided for investment studies, including land-use
studies aimed at establishing large-scale tree crop development schemes in the
province, and fishery resource surveys aimed at assessing the coastal fishing
potential of the province to develop small-scale artisanal fishing projects.
The scope and cost of these studies would be submitted to the Bank for comr-
ments prior to their initiation (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
49.       Infrastructure Development (US$2.8 million).  Priority infrastruc-
ture works would be financed under the project, the most important being up-
grading or rehabilitation of four provincial roads (totalling about 56 ki) and
six district roads (totaLling about 68 kn). All of the roads are located in
areas with potential for expanding cash crop production, and are included in
the provincial government's road development plan which is directed at linking
population centers with the main government and trading centers. A condition
survey, to prepare detailed scope of works and final costs of first year
roads, is underway and expected to be completed by end-1984. The project
would also finance the upgrading of three airstrips for transport of temperate
vegetables produced under the project and the construction of a small wharf ac
Tipas for landing of Sepik River barges. To ensure the good condition of the
roads, which is crucial to the proposed development effort, the Covernment
would provide adequate funds for maintenance of the roads which would be
improved and upgraded under the project. The level of funds will be reviewed
and revised periodically in light of inflation, and the condition and usage of
individual roads. The Department of Works and Supply would maintain provin-



- 14 -
cial roads and supervise district road maintenance (Section 3.05 of the draft
Loan Agreement). It would also construct buildings and houses for all project
components according to standard designs.
50.       Health and Nutrition Component (US$0.5 million).  The project would
improve the quality and coverage of nutrition and health services. Two school
nutrition programs would be carried out to improve the diets of high school
and community school scudents. Food farms (vegetables, small livestock) would
be established at each of the province's six high schools in order to improve
diets and reduce food procurement expenditures. In about 38 community schools
a school agricuLture and nutrition program would be introduced, which invoLves
teachers, students and parents in the development of school vegetable gardens
(about 1 ha) and instruction on good nutrition and gardening practices. Vege-
tables from the school garden would be used for a school lunch program. In
addition, the project would improve the quality of primary health care
delivery throughout the province. Funds would be provided for the establish-
ment and operation of a training school for aid post orderlies at a Health
Center in Lumi, and the recruitment of a Health Extension Officer for each of
the province's six Health Centers to increase the level and effectiveness of
supervision of aid posts.
51.       Education and Training (US$0.9 million).  The project would improve
the effectiveness and coverage of the formal education system and expand
vocational education through: (a) the expansion of eleven community schools
into Central Community Schools through the construction of boarding facilities
and additional cLassrooms; this would be conditional on the results of an
ongoing Central Community School pilot program which would be evaluated in
1986 (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement); (b) construction of boarding
facilities for about 200 students at the Lumi High School, most of whose
students come from outlying areas; (c) establishment of an in-service training
center at Lumi to train the province's teachers; and (d) establishment or
upgrading of two vocational centers to train carpenters.
52.       Lumi District Special Program (US$0.2 million).  The Lumi district
is a particularly disadvantaged area in the province in terms of poverty and
poor nutrition. To supplement the province-wide programs for food and cash
crop development which would also benefit the Lumi people, the project would
support specific programs in the district to improve the welfare of the people
and delivery of government services. A Village Development Center would be
established at Lumi where meetings, training sessions, and demonstration
activities in agriculture, health, family planning, adult education, etc.
would be organized by relevant agencies. In view of the large number of pro-
ject activities in the Lumi district, a district coordinator (recently
appointed) would assist government implementing divisions and the district
administration, and manage the center. Two studies focusing on the district
would also be undertaken: the causes of child malnutrition would be investiga-
ted by the PNG Institute of Medical Research, and corrective programs pro-
posed; and a comprehensive socio-economic survey (started in 1983) would be
carried out in five representative district villages, by the Education
Research Unit of the University of PNC, to monitor and assess changes result-
ing from proiset interventions.



- 15 -
53.       Institution Building (US$1.3 million).  The project would upgrade
the province's planning and management capabilities by financing the services
of four additional staff - a Project Coordinator and a Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer, both expatriates, and two national counterparts - for the
province's newly created Planning and Coordination Division. The Division
would be responsible for coordinating project planning and assisting the
provincial line divisions with implementation, strengthening the provincial
planning, management and reporting system, establishing a project monitoring
*        and evaluation system, assisting line divisions in preparing sectoral plans,
and reviewing and processing proposals for inclusion in future national
plans.  The provincial Finance and Management Services Division would also be
*        strengthened through the provision of an expatriate Finance Officer and a
national counterpart. The Finance Officer would be responsible for the
accounting of all project expenditures and would also assist with upgrading
the provincal accounting system.
54.       Further, staff training and development would be supported by the
establishment of a provincial Staff Development Unit to assess staff training
needs and to implement an in-service training program. The Unit would be
staffed by an expatriate provincial staff development officer and a counter-
part. By December 31, 1985, the Unit would submit to the Provincial
Management Team and the Bank a preliminary report outlining the future work
program and recommendations on urgently needed training, and by December 31,
1988, a final report evaluating the training program with recommendations for
future programs (Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Additional Activities (US$1.3 million).  Funds have been allocated
under the project for subprojects which are likely to be identified by
project-funded studies or linked to other development efforts in the pro-
vince. All such subprojects would first be reviewed by the NPO and included
in the National Public Expenditure Plan. The Bank would approve any new sub-
project costing more than US$75,000 (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
56.       Less Developed Provinces' Planning Studies (US$1.5 million).  The
project would finance the National Government's Less Developed Provinces'
(LDP) Studies Fund which assists LDPs to prepare development plans. Prepara-
*        tion of the proposed project and the two ongoing Bank-financed provincial
development projects was funded by the LDP fund. A team of specialists and
short-term consultants, as needed, would be recruited by the province and the
NPO to work with provincial planning staff for two to three years in preparing
the development plans. An outline of the scope and cost of the studies would
be submitted to the Bank for comments prior to their initiation (Section 3.08
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation Period and Status
57.       Project implementation would cover a period of six years 1985-89.
The project would be carried out in accordance with agreed implementation and
staff recruitment schedules (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). To
help assure prompt start of the project, initiating steps for staff recruit-
ment are underway. All positions have been approved, the recruiting firm for



- 16 -
employment of overseas staff has been engaged and first year positions for
local staff are expected to be advertised before March 1985. Key staff are
expected to be selected in early 1985, which is a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
58.       TotaL project costs are estimated at about US$16.6 million,
including a foreign exchange cost of about US$8.4 million or 51X. Taxes and
duties amount to about US$0.4 million. Base costs refer to July 1984 prices;
unit prices for equipment, materials and supplies, salaries and civiL works
are based on unit costs used by NPO and actual costs for similar projects.
Physical contingencies amount to 7Z of base costs and include 20Z on roads,
and 10% on houses, materials and equipment. Price contingencies amount to 28Z
of base costs plus physicaL contingencies, and have been calculated as
follows: 3.5X in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9X for 1986-88 and 7.5Z for 1989 for
foreign costs; and 8Z in 1984-85, 9% in 1986-88 and 7.5Z in 1989 for local
costs.
59.       The proposed Bank loan of US$9.7 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee of about US$24,200, would finance 60% of project cost, excLuding
taxes. The loan would cover the total foreign exchange requirement of US$8.4
million plus local costs equivalent to US$1.3 million. Local cost financing
is justified in view of the current financing constraints in PNG and the high
priority attached by Government to socio-economic development of LDPs. The
remaining US$6.9 million would be provided by Government. Critical start-up
activities (para. 57) and an LDP study will comnence prior to project start.
Retroactive financing of up to US$400,000 is therefore proposed for such
project expenditures made after March 31, 1984 (Schedule I, paragraph 4 of the
draft Loan Agreement). All project funds would be allocated under the
National Public Expenditure Plan for 1984-89 and financed by the National
Government out of annual budget appropriations and released on a quarterly
basis.



- 17 -
Procurement
60.       Procurement arrangements are shown in the following table:
Procurement method
Local
comperitive     Force          Not          Total
Project Element              bidding      account     applicable       cost
(USS million)
Civil works                     0.32          5.33         -           5.65
(0.26)        (4.26)       -           (6.52)
Vehicles, equipment             0.28           -           -           0.28
and furniture                (0.22)          -           -          (0.22)
Technical assistance and                                  2.80         2.80
consulting services                                   (2.24)        (2.24)
Incremental                                               7.86         7.86
operating costs                -             -         (2.72)       (2.72)
Total                      0.60           5.33      10.66         16.59
(0.48)        (4.26)     (4.96)        (9.70)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
61.       In view of Wes.. Sepik's remote locaticn and the relatively small
size and scattered nature of project activities, international competitive
bidding would not be feasible or appropriate for works and goods to be pro-
cured under the project. Local contracting capacity is limited to small
building works. Road upgrading and most building works would be carried out
by the Department of Works and Supply through force account, but using hired
*      pLant whenever possible.  Individual building works range in cost from
US$30,000 to US$100,000, and road works from US$75,000 to US$300,000. Vehi-
cles, equipment and furniture would be procured through local competitive
bidding procedures, which are satisfactory.
Accounts and Audits
62.       Project expenditures -ould be processed in accordance with regular
government accounting procedures which are sound and consistently applied.
Project accounts would be consolidated on a quarterly basis by the Project
Coordinator with the assistance of the Project's Finance Officer. The
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Copies of the audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of the fiscal year and would contain a separate



- 18 -
opinion on the compliance of expenditures with the purposes of the project,
accuracy of the statements of expenditure, and the procedure and controls used
for preparation of claims.
Disbursements
63.       The Bank loan wouLd be disbursed at the rate of 802 for civil works;
vehicles, equipment and furniture; and technical assistance and consulting
services. Disbursements for incremental operating costs would be made on the
basis of 60% for applications received before December 31, 1986, 40X for
applications received before December 31, 1988 and 302 thereafter. Bank funds
would be disbursed quarterly on the basis of statements of expenditure
prepared by the Project Coordinator. Detailed documentation suppor:ing these
statements would be retained at the Project Coordinator's office and be made            a
available to the Bank for inspection during project supervision. Retroactive
financing of up to US$400,000 is proposed to finance eligible project expendi-
tures for start-up activities after March 31, 1984 (para. 59). Disbursements
are expected to be completed by December 31, 1990, the closing date for the
project.
Organization and Management
64.       The Department of West Sepik (through its various divisions) would
be the executing agency for all project components except the special stu-
dies. The LDP studies would be implemented by the Area Planning Division of
the NPO; the land-use studies and fishery resource surveys would be undertaken
by the National Department of Primary Industry's Divisions of Land Use and
Fishery Research, respectively. The organization, management and implementa-
tion arrangements are integrated with, and complementary to, existing provin-
cial programs, and are designed to strengthen the provincial administrative
structure. With the additional staffing and coordination assistance provided
under the project, and efforts toward staff development, all provincial divi-
sions are expected to be capable of implementing their respective components.
65.       Overall coordination and management of project implementation
(excluding studies) would rest with the Secretary of the Department of West
Sepik. Coordination among the implementing divisions would be effected
through the Provincial Management Team which meets monthly, consists of heads
of all provincial and national divisions, and is chaired by the Secretary; the
Team would also include the Project Coordinator and the Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer during the project period. The Headquarters Project
Coordinating Committee would be established as soon as the project activities
start; it would serve as the overall facilitating mechanism at the national
level and comprises the heads of national departments involved in activities
supporting these projects. A Headquarters Project Coordinator in the Office
of Project Coordination (Department of Finance) would serve as secretary to
the coordinating committee, and would be the main contact point for provincial
implementing agencies and the Project Coordinator in national matters related
to the project.



- 19 -
Staffing
66.       Over the six-year project period, 1984-89, 33 additional staff would
be recruited. Of these, 23 would be nationals, 7 expatriate contract officers
and 3 volunteers supplied by volunteer agencies. Twenty-one staff would
occupy permanent positions continuing after the project. The country's
shortage of nationals with the required training and experience, necessitates
the engagement of expatriates for key technical and coordination positions.
Counterparts to the expatriates would be recruited and trained !n-the-job.
Loan effectiveness is conditional on the offer of employment to seven key
specialists (Project Coordinator, Provincial Food Crops Officer, Rubber
Extension Officer, Provincial Economics and Marketing Officer, Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer, Finance Officer, and Provincial Staff Development Officer)
and advertised notice in the government gazette for the positions of Cash
Crops Extension Officer, a Nursery Manager and two Extension Cfficers for
Vegetables (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Key professional staff
retained under the project would have qualifications, experience, and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
67.       Monitoring of the project's physical and financial progress would be
essentially the same as for other government projects, a'lthough government
capability in this regard would be strengthened. Quarterly physical/financial
reviews would be undertaken at the provincial leveL by the Project
Coordinator. Once each year, the NPO would undertake a detailed
physical/financial field review, with support from other national departments
and, based on the findings of this review, would prepare a report for the
Provincial Management Team, which would highlight any problem areas and
actions to be taken tSection 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Project
Coordinator wouLd prepare quarterly progress reports and submit these to the
Bank through the Office of Project Coordination. The report of the NPO's
review team would also be attached to the relevant quarterly progress reports.
68.       The socio-cultural appropriateness and effectiveness of project
activities on the people, particularly women in view of their important role
in subsistence activities, would be monitored by the Monitoring and Evaluation
Officer; in the Lumi district, this work would be performed by the Education
Research Unit team.  The provincial Planning and Coordination Division would
be responsible for overall project monitoring and evaluation. For this pur-
pose it would design and implement, with assistance of appropriate provincial
and national divisions, a data gathering and evaluation system by June 30,
1986, and by the same date complete a baseline survey of the province's agri-
cultural sector (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement). In view of the
nature of this project a mid-term evaluation would be undertaken, jointly by
the national and provincial governments, at the end of the first two years.



- 20 -
Benefits and Justification
69.       The project is set in a very underdeveloped contezt, is multisec-
toral in nature and is the first phase of a long-term program of invest-
ments. Project justification consequently has to be viewed in a tong-term
context and has to accommodate the fact that a sizeable portion of the
benefits would be nonquantifiable. Important nonquantifiable benefits of the
project include: more balanced diets, better health and nutrition, improved
educational coverage and quality, and improved government services. Overall,
the project would accelerate the process of nation building and assist people
in making a transition from an isolated setting to a more "modern" way of
life.
Risks
70.       The project has three main areas of risk: timing of staff recruit-
ment; effective project coordination and management; and cultural acceptance
of project activities. The recruitment risk is being minimized by ensuring
appointment of key staff before start of project. The coordination and
management risk arises from the broad scope of the project and the untested
performance of provincial administrative staff. The provincial Planning and
Coordination Division would therefore be strengthened under the project to
enhance management and coordination, and at the national level the Head-
quarters Project Coordinator would deal with any problems which cannot be
handled in the province. These arrangements should reduce coordination risks
to a manageable level.
71.       When new technologies are introduced into a traditional society that
has only recently come into contact with the modern world, it is unavoidable
that modern methods will violate long-standing traditions. Attempts to intro-
duce new farming or dietary practices could be unsuccessful for this reason.
To minimize this risk, local leaders, socio-cultural specialists and techno-
crats have been involved in designing the project, and the proposed changes
have been kept modest and require low levels of skills and technology. Also,
project targets have been set low. Further, the Monitoring and Evaluation
Officer would -ssess, among other things, implementation, including the cul-
tural implicatim s of change, particularly on women, and provide feedback.
This measure is designed to overcome the risk of introducing inappropriate
initiatives and to ensure that changes can be introduced during implementation
that will enhance the impact of the development effort.
Fiscal Impact
72.       Given the nature of this project and the poverty of the provincial
population, no cost recovery is expected from participants. The national
Government would bear the full cost of the project, which is of modest scale
and well within the means or the country. During the project period, the
average yearly project expenditures would be about K 1.8 million (1984 prices)
or less than 0.3Z of the national budget for 1984. In view of the province's
limited ability to generate revenues, the incremental recurrent costs of the
project after completion would be borne by the national Government. In the
short run, revenuss from the project would be negligible, but, over the long
run, revenues should accrue to both the national and provincial governments.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Independent State of Papua New
Guinea and the Bank and the report proviced for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Special conditions of effectiveness are that (i) offers
of employment have been extended to seven key specialists; and (ii) four other
positions have been advertised in the government gazette (para. 66). Special
conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
Presidenc
Attachments
October 11, 1984
Washington, D.C.
,



-22-                                                           I
_.552 X                                         a  1 of 5
TBZ                     Dapu                                IO
-AP   M G&M          - 0      iiUL I1m 552
NOW               Ma cm c 99   mcll  ~ lb
Zii=-          ASL as 55cVZC         1*2. fltu 
_          _w                                                                       _      _W2   
-  cr         . .
cmn       W O. U: )T             37.0      114.0     2J0.0             5567.3                 95
C            D     CUK1iN3    1932.0    2U4I80       31 .0
MMM            C                  2.7        9.5      Iz- a             3L.7 
101Z  D mm 2000 C0ZL)
sr LAMOt 3111CW                                       L
maom
mm S. 11-                       4*2        5.2        5.5            21-.9                    3S.7
NM 9l0    5A5X5                          555.9 U44.5                 735. 1                  92-4
0-14 Ws                       405        42.0        1.              30.0                    30.3
13.44 U                        55.4       55.0       55.9             57P.                   5.0
65  D    E                      Z.9        3.0        3.3              3.3                     4*1
TOUL                            I-.         .z        2.1              2.3                     Z.4
Cow                            L1.3       U3.2        5.4              4.3                     3.4
C11O  m       x    cm  mm)       44.0       41.5       3.2              30L1                   31-3
31W=a cz                t.CS)  7  32        &-         L3l       1       O -5         *.1
c       99e 105 M=                3.0        3.0        2.5              2.0                    2.0
--nxm; -miat Czo                  -          -         - 
tn c2 aw "1                      ..         ..         ..             52.7                   40.3
ANI _       m11MCCC11111
X1MC oROD MU   MCr
Cw71-tm                         to0        100          9.0            lD.0                   114.3
PlO c     inwC"z or
c*UM    C OF  _       )        79.0       M30        920             1.                    120
1in285 Cm..S rim OM            42.0       45.0   53                   57.0                   57.3
OF  I   01 ADRM151S            70        M0        21.00 Ic         141                     35.1
cU.s (G  1-4) 1= MU1             25.2       29.4       12.5              7.2                    5-7
LEM Mumm- Kc matut (     )       40.5       44         53.0             4b.4                   64.7
A  ir. am  C1P  mm=)             6550      133.0       99.4             6.3                    60.4
2t1YAL                            _.        __       20.0 it          37.0                    55.4
015.. .1                                          30.0 T           55.                     75.1
L                                --         --       19.0 w           26                     45.2
A      XE C    A DS300L                                                                                                               S
Z Oer 1001A1Z00)
:TOL                             ,_       14.0       18.0 14          41.3                    52.9
cows                             ..         ..         -              47.4                   57.0
__AL     5.0        5.0 /a          33.3                    2 5
l01W41100 19 151CmaU          19320.0   U130.0    13590.0/.           7749.4                 1917.7
POP. c      Ut     U               ..    3100.0       94o.07 i        244.4                   8115.1
10.9  UW?*  19D 
T  140.0 If   150.   250. 1.          101442-                 37.2
_Ma                              ..       50-0      t00o .-          6531.2                 411.5
mWAt.-                                   260.0      270.0 7.        2394.6                  2635.
au-Min "a MO       L..                       ..         ..              27.0                   27-3
-z  sm  or           w
MRL
lm                              0.7 
so"
hmU       r. OF    1i
ACES TO ESC?. CZ W 01    ZX
30.         ..         .                 ..
_                                ..         ..         .                 ..
DOMAIN.                                                                 .                      .



- 23 -                                                      ANNEX I
TASLI 34                                          Page 2 of 5
PW   -S amW&          -# 501123        r        U
r~~95 a                        _ -                 A ) A
lowa             uzz          sic      uuwzm lb
19W/          KUafl&          ASIA  mACZvZC          UX. AiNzcA  *..A
g~~~sroo rbm
3~ZCSE  iOUI~  DCZ
P2sa?:  T?AL                     32.0       52.0        65.0             102                      105.4
M:.0       63.0       73.0             10.                      L06.3
MFe                    7.0        39.0       56.0              962                     104.5
2SCmaE: TAL                       1.0        8.0        130              0                        43.2
MALE                   2.0        11.0       17.0               6.7                     43.3
ME                     1.0         4.0        8.0              43.1                     4.5
Uca-_ImmS c 01 4e      !           16.0       19.4       16.2              17.5                     33.6
aUmaU                            35.0       30.0       32.0               31.a                    30.1
-  sE Ca                         18.0         ..       22.0               23.5                    16.8
AtL? 1         F=  (22             29.4       32.1       32.0 le           72.9                     79.5
vaSc  cavsl 5     Pop              2.0         7.2        6.1 le           10.1                     ".0
3*320 ~IWt3SflmWA5D NOP              .          ..      S6.8               113.6                   225.M
TV        /N                         ..         .           ..              30.1                   107.2
S?A1~ ~ caEMAL
m  GaSN NOPM&TIM                   -.         *.        'A                3.9                     63.5
CM AXL A=              CAP          ..    ..    ..                          3.4                       L
,JL LAI  YLN0  CZUC5)            1056.0     1257.0      1537.0
lMZi (MICa?)                     41.4       41.3       *0.9               33.5                    23.2
ACZX02E CNZ3DQS)                 89.0       86.0       82.1              532                      31.5
2sM  (MICa?)                      4.3        5.8        7.7               t7.9                    23.9
?AIflC?As0 3U4  (NZRCEST)
TOTL                             54.6       5290       '9.2               36.7                    32.2
AMA                              61.2       56.5       56.2              50.9                      9.3
47.7       4.9        41.6              26.6                     12
i:iIC DE35C! irA?                   0.6        0.9        0.9               1.1                      1.4
la - 
PECCLTO    rAIv af
RmiEZD S
uazIMS,- s: OF uaSuD               .                                     22.2
2= or I     _1s            ..         ..          ..              46.0
TAMS 202 aor   015                                       .                6.4
Lou= 401 Or  Ls     0              ,,         ,,         ,,              155,
ro       M        s
KAM ABSDO    *OVa? IoE
LVL n(USS PER CW    )
mum45                              ..         ..       400.0 A            8.6                    2".2
I                                  ..         ..      275.'5             152.0                   14.0
uT~a2~ ~AUZ P?Y riWaW
LEVEL CuSS P  Cap=)
CAM*3                              ..         ..         ..              177.9                   5228
q          ,03*7.                                        ..         .,          ..             164.6                    372.4
1A?MM POP. DUNM AISOl
NoYmiT X      LEVE (S)
tS                                 ..         ..       10.0 Al           23.4                       ..
-7                                 ..         ..       73.0              37.7
DM NmI zjZ
MrT *PNLCAKZ
ws~~~~~~~~~~~~                       0 r 
la  7be Stan aVerasm  for aeeb fadicator ar populartloaimb    au_tb1  mm. Canaqge of cauIz               MOM ths
dliaor duPemi. ans avllabLIty of dot* ad 1n m0t 2ustfOZ_
/b 0sins orbc_lne goted. -ftat for 19SO =fr to ce YU1 brutw    1959 .J W61; 34t* for D970' 1 _          196  mg
1971; sad data for '%me Becoue fstl.te- betAme 18 aO   1962.
Ic  1977; L4 1975; I/ 1978; /f 196;  L 1979.
JimA  196



-24-                                                                                     ANNM  I
Page 3 of 5
le'   nt     lab- - -I                    reit_  -   a-  -_ _Ueb    _ asiei                       w _n_ s   _ _~  be cp _,  -  a. Isaeb-l
ala  eaaeei s. e. i-be   In.  -ea..eneee  -as . abIn   .--   wNw,"N                                                                 a N
_._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mn    -   S   _. _ _                                                N        -a _ __  m__-j
atfledcii. Ic a   _c .e          ___ a-             a rse2_ _ee                                    _ _*c*a-r._ a-   a                       .,         c
~~~~~~~~~_ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ G" U_0t                ft _r           _ o _          W          _-t                            S _    _
wo  s  in. 1.5 ne    )a.           Mc- _ a l_     = 1 aes _      -  as. l_e _   __ib   _ t_.   12.2*tp *c *n     .----.. ess
c-.es         _ah    -e      -     asSca a            . en. _n         _     i esla _' t  it. _*_ et-_I 5 _Utm             t-. *sa         s_      p_ a
-                            ~                                                  sega -1a. _,=,- - -1        -t_t_
7.-ev ot0-   2.aeeaIa-                  ed  i.25bs                                                               x-  s.eLp   a
%5USSO                                                                                              - twt 6,^,  _ _   _  _L, t- _  _    _  rt -. c_"   - t,
fat  _e. a-mae..  t_i-  a     _ ,ati-   _,t    -_ - 52. _aU
_li __l',  ins.gle                                                                 a-as             .IU *U_  - 155.1 _a   a Pet. -_ ps.-s If r_teel **
-ISmP_  r ~z ~ml_ m- NNWN-                               .e.   _1.     ..   t-.lUa __.    _              _            b
-   - W ~  ~       ~      ~       ~       - -        .1d..ia    -n:.-                   iI       l 
ia    bIZ      _ at as- s :  * . a-g,       i                    P- 
al_.                                                                                __ ama i~     __1          ?e_t  a. 51-   _          a.  -   _  _
!    .s_t - ~t-t at 2.ip 5.z sa  Dlt.  'l_r-
-     -. -   -                                                                                     1t'1-ae-. -            a - .e.5  .          p.a.
--. _n_- 1, 1-,1 _ -lt   - __                                                      r_1 -1       *_-_       z __
-w * arl               11-_B.                                                             _ ..efa r   _aa- -  _     _   _-  _     _ -         _    _r
_:_ae  n...                                       z- e   a. at eae-a                                          en - _e.  _-.          1 .__a_  wUz-sZ   _ _ ___
s_^  _ze    "      __   ro1ae e _          ..5e _  ~            CU sae -l _               .       .2P    a.e a| feel    _e  r__  _
las.!.~s  11fe-eel   - IOt 5aCe.-Iest asf                                 -yef-fUt  smsses.              --as,e 9- ma,        -1    atal -1
r_. n _aat  T   c-   _. e r_  t                    _e_
NN.e.      l- S  -" - L- t-"Z.tt r                                                                a p5.1   _tiw   ._t_ p
Sm_ 5. D emil_..N -_rL-    -        _ _          fa
-       II1 _r __ .  _-b r     p Ir *r - r_. _        _     C  _r
e    rs       .               n         .FIM    -       ar                                                            ...........eeee - _s-  fat
__-   _dlei             -     - tsIas ___ Ii-                 rris: UP  _al                         _e C t-__r   t_t _  _. _es             _t-
pa- s. son.i  -          .    .E        bPe.SIc I &                                       ffMM!at OYP La.-          F  r-     -lPee-s.- t 1,
a__          t _ea. d _           ee        tea).. I_ m *-                          awrs _t_ ab             _:al    aase *eU    *_          a_   ees.--
ere rSM n a  a                   e  - _ _. I-                                         ea r        - D           a _  e *        er  - r      se*
-.  -   U  -  - ~I-i- Seetta-  sas   ei                s!                        S.    Cp-                 i    .               epieeme
_ss  r_ r_s _i   peass.I   I_eeeelf br               Csi     ine nI_t a_ r_<I_ te _,~. r    __ _t_.,                                 ros
I_ _. -   .bat_ se  - ssr_.     __    seli  _t_. _s                               ws.t,_frt_e5   ns_
__ r_ ,p:tss r EU _*s   ,t    atr -. paS 51 5                                 IfafC    rtfa   eee  eq eP_ r _- r_ls   r__pas
aiC   _el     sc-aI  r. stea hs S.                  n      r_ee       r     _    r     - _eia  _p.a  _ a.- _rca                       s.
24    _ -_   t tjaa    a-  a. flies.. F aS               e)-1 -ee                           s     .    r.
ii-  _0. _ at   aab_ _                                _i   eee. _ta't  esP  __ fe. as   Ssat a. see  _ a.  _.
,.-F   _ _
seip. li-  S If.   85 in..t.                                                    -
-e.is  .at,f feseee      ats  I-sbm ac- e.  M.                                                          l-l
1 e           . _ ;           St_                                                                   " s.  s r   5   T- "-,  e-            ft N.
*-seti  Ipsapa _e55 _~.te.eti - .U   _   eS _ SPasfa sas.  _ I                      Om_-le-   a_ L sc  ,-    a              - _-    l.-
acrnsa.- fa                                   _ se. l_ a-. r_  t      _ed-
_a .550 i-  *e      b-a           -we IS-00. S wp S . aet _e-  ,                                        . pt .s ms-N r--se   -      - .se a  s  e  -
_eat nsmna; 5,. s     -  in_-_e..                                                  aPsis -   __ dpe    __. _ - _al
-2ie                       O _r e                                                    5s.t  esfl  -          _l s_- *55    ,._.t_t5  es.!    efafa  r nse.
a_.                             j_sa)C                                                     e _  l     ses _        _           taiN. a. -n     t ile.-
e  bsee.es.t eieee   c-ap.. e i S-m         l,a.   W                              a. .!....   ~        ss.s   s          a- 
_aSa Siam    -   _ UsaUseef at   _ae   a)E _r_ P5n    sq e.0
-  It eflJdati-  C -NCp-ti               - -        -    -
Stesfita - lfaa e _ sifia-_'         _ _.. pS . UV" -.a  _ a_ _
ae..ea - i-se- we.tell            -s  s-a..  *W.       PaF___.________________-
m-Lm. -1 9-- S.                               eisa-  im           .    tiifn  c  epc-Sefle  e
r   N-m .   .....  --1 _         i   -s s _f sep              s.e sPsb   ala..r  -                              5__ a_    _     S
_w~~~~~~~ erbw    as                                                                      ___  r_9_    & ___                  _    _    f_ 
_gXDX_ _ t_9 _  3       *. dl _vE_ ___    _   f on.  f
._                                 _._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ts_s. r_ _ -_ _c     Sap *_t._    _at    _I_ _ec  _S__. _.a_e-.-_
_9              A    i    - -           d_  P,s         _                               C_  _~
| eP_m_  -_ {|__ - _  _   D_ is 1-   F_ .-.Z *            -1_ 2,. _-                       _m                          _-"d-a
.v  "-  P-"          U {_ -.4w             r          -      - --,                   __ a,     ___ .f t_d          -       -.  -.      -    
t  alOnU t ml&ft   -; Mn        s.   CCC  siss                                 SPC-9(.tlsfssfi   5a            C .tI iz      f,ae.       s
Men M. N-.. a_t Se.                                               _-                  _ a  _  _-_-.-ea  -    t     _   l. _     - Ut
_       4  _   =_ _ _-   __-1 _C_ _"         _ 41   PS -  .-We N.L
i--                                                                               pateitase   i-s lasac   - C Ce   _:._  _ ' . - PsUi2lSes   at_ 
p. _,St eest, C aeiepis  fept at- -psaPts.    ---eC(                                 atfeea  pes a.. at-es.fc.ee.    a...spfts-
-a   eiee _ _      t.. t_   _ beams ..iel meas    _e a._te _                          _      _  sapptifi-      _la .   _  _e _(_et rsats  i   _s te ls.Ssr
.e~     -S _a      me ease   in      t ca  eee    ask ye.. seeS                     seq     s 5at 1.5 i-..  at t  e -  _se!   a lapc _"las| Upe 
__ei-e is    m_ _n) rsns.Ice. as_ 5.             __e re Seepli-im.  at.-                          _-i. -_   . _e c-   r-.   -    _ 
-  i-ae  b_ P5            _ be  -   . eeaoe       tat c-n                      abss _sapUa.  i-mejat _sese                          Csia 
5_ s.4e _ _ICeOI  eIs _-_slatic. r_ _iee' mISaPs.f_P_t a
s.   ep- faastz a..~ff -          U.- t   amcatos -            _.   -                Saras  tea-  _b _asn =5(5SaS-                      efs  ee .
ite  S  .51t eaUiee seecase  a. be 951.1  Pa  __a                                  I
.&1s. .t a at re.te ,tascec dp _ _ I as_ _  te_
It _0 s_- r_               M  iM r* t__2_a                                              -                  ~          ~ -t_fz
55         _         _  _ _ *_                 *          ,u_ rs  _c  e.  _        5 -ti-h? taS
91 _        _           _    _  _F- .1 - _.d % rr .~~W                                                     @                                  _tt__tl
-t s.s.  rsasl  es.si- pat a- setit rereec     -        s 1                  s  e       e       e  r_         .sie_
in..          D....                                                               eam.. S
__*_ be              K.e. p-m  - _"        -ea. s   e          m               i      s rats_  f-a _ __                           S -f  _       Pef_  -_
U ttd &.t o   _                                    ft__' 
_aUi i- _      -l _   .e  laP fS *a. a... in, a  aag __.cseiI                                      tga   tS              .e  s  fs    p5C.l
_ S tl      __     fse  t -    sbi.!  -.W. sail a  _.  i-c.
_.,         __ _S  _O    __11               t            X, 
*| __a  esa. seek  ata.t.I  eat _ es_ *_a __.s
_se.  sae  - re_         _        _   _U soap  re-ts qe.Ie _       r.
SPat    @ Ia   sp  a ist at i-       edIble t-*_.s.___         _ -
a.  _r rPan)-         __bi  _e  025 __   be al In aa
-aq-Sa It bt tfsaela           _2ti    s.sen           d _less   seal
as_ _n. _k-t,n  AIeak   ast _t eta    s._     at  _t  _ea
a         a    .e--es.c        a  aml- -   etpbr-.
- _tr _                _ -t-- < i-SdeIV



- 25 -
ANNIE I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTE
(at current prices)
1960-69  1970-76  1975-82
a                                        USS Min                -   (constant prices) -
GNP at Iarket Prices          2,280.8  100.0            6.5/b    2.7/b    1.7/b
Gross Domestic Investment       686.4   30.1           19.2      5.6      5.3
Gross National Saving           199.5    8.7
Current Account Balance        -486.9  -21.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           863.6   37.9            9.9     18.1      1.9
Imports of Goods,-DFS         1,395.3   61.2           16.5      2.7      3.0
OUTPUT, EWPLO!ENT AND PRODUCTIITIY IN 1979
Value Added Ic   Employment       Value Added per Worker
USS mln    z     '000    Z      US$   Z of National Average
Agriculture          659.4   32.1    996   87.6      774           39.9
Industry             699.0   34.1     27    2.4  25,141         1,295.3
Services             696.3   33.9    114   10.0   6,6&2           342.2
Total/Average      Z,054.7  100.0  1,137  100.0   1,941           100.0
GOVERET FINANCE
Central Government
K million                  Z of GDP
1983              1982           1976-78
Current Domestic Receipts            425.2               21.4            19.7
*         Current Expenditures                  587.5              30.9             32.2
Current Deficit                       162.3               9.5            12.4
Capital Expenditures                  121.5/d             7.3             4.5
External Assistance (net)             213.2              10.7            13.5
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1 - June 30
to January 1 - December 31. All data have been adjusted to a calendar
year basis.
/b  Grovth rates are calculated in line at end-points.
7W  At factor cost.  These figures are for 1981.
Jd These include capital transfers to provincial governments and to public
enterprises.
* not applicable
.. not available
May 1984



ANNEX I
-26--                                       Page S of 5
C3TRY DATA - PAFuA NEW cunE&
,DMMY, CREDIT AgD PRICES               1978      1979      1980      1981       1982    1983
AMtillon K outstanding at end of period)
J' _.y and Quasi Money                649.0    571.7    553.1    554.7        567.8    649.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector. net      13.5      35.0       8.1      43.4      71.1      4.9
Bank Credit to Prlvate Sector, net    193.8    229.0    303.9    342.6        373.2   449.0
-  (Percentages or Index Nubers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GCP      31.4      35.3      31.9      33.5       32.5    32.5
Consmwer Price Index (1977 - 100)     109.0    117.6    131.4    138.7        148.3   160.9
Annual Percentage Change in:
Consuer Price Index                   5.8       5.8       8.0       5.5       6.9      8.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector        41.8      18.2 -   11.7       12.7       8.9    20.3
SALANCE OF PAMtESTS                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVutBGZ 1980-83)
1981     1982    1983                            USS man   z
Exports of Goods. NPS         875.0   863.6   918.2 Coffee                       126.7  14.6
Iports of Goods. NFS        1,237.0  1,395.3  1,367.0 Cocoa                      53.1   6.1
Resource Cap (Deficit = -)   -362.D  -531.7   448.8 Copra & Copra Products    48.8   5.6
Timber & Timber Products  70.8   8.2
Factor Services (net)         -88.6   -93.4   -88.8 Copper Concentrates          192.1  22.2
Transfers (net)               190.3   138.2   194.6 Gold                         242.3  28.0
Balance on Current Account   -260.3  -486.9  -343.0 All Other Corodities        133.0  15.3
Private Capital (net)         155.7   378.3   271.0 Total                       866.8  100.0
Public MIL Loans (net)        137.9   101.7   130.8
Errors and Omisions /a          4.0   -32.6    22.4
Increase in Reserves          -37.3   -40.7      96.3 EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEKMBER 31, 1982
Imports of Fuel and Related
Matertals                   235.2   198.1   181.3 Prblic Debt, ncl. Guaranteed   748.0
Nonguaranteed Private Debt      545.7
Total Outstanding & Disbursed  1_293.7
PUBLIC DET SECE RATIO FOR 1982 lb
RATE OF  rCHAN C
Public Debt. inel. Cuaranteed     7.5
1978-79                     1980                      Nonguaranteed Private Debt         7.7
IS$1.00 -1C 0.71            US$1.00 - K 0.67           Total 0utstandint & Disbursed    15.2
K 1.00 - US$1.41            1 1.00 - USS1.49
1981                        1982                       IBRDtID  LNDDI  (AS OF 9/30184)
US$1.00 - 1 0.67            UlSS1.00 - 1 0.74                                      USS M1
K 1.00 - US$1.49            K 1.00- USS1.36                                      IB0D  IDA
1983                                Outstanding & Disbursed   66.14   104.29
Undisbursed             107.46    9.31
USS1.00 - K 0.83
K 1.00 - US$1.20                         Catstanding incl. Undisb.173.60   113.60
/a Including capital ne.i.
Tb Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
.. Not available.
September 1984



- 27 -
ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATIEENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS la
(as of September 30, 1984)
Amounts (US$ millions)
Loan or                                                      (less cancellations)
credit
Number        Year   Borrower Purpose                      Bank    IDA      Undisbursed
Six loans and nine credits fully disbursed            58.5       64.4          -
1333-PNG      1976     PNG     Agriculture                 12.0                   1.86
841-PNG      1978     PNG     Rural Development                     20.0         4.05
1856-PNG      1980     PIG     Third Higbways             17.0                    0.84
1934-PNG      1981     PNG     Primary Education           6.0                    5.97
1087-PNG      1981     PIG     Primary Education                     12.0 lb      2.38
1149-PNG      1981     PNG     Second Agric. Credit                  15.0 7Td     1.16
2125-PNG      1982     PNG     Enga Provincial Dev.         6.0                   5.83
1279-PUG      1983     PIG     Petroleum Tech. Assis.                 3.0 le      1.72
2265-PNG      1983     PNG     Road Improvement            31.0                  29.71
2276-PEG      1983    PNG      Agric. Support Serv.       14.1                   13.95
2395-PNG      1984     PEG     Secondary Education        49.3                   49.30
To-tal                                     193.9      114.4       116.77
of which has been repaid                    20.3       0.8
Total now outstanding /f                   173.6      113.6
Amount sold         8.1                       0
Repaid              8.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA             173.6      113.6
Total undisbursed                          107.46      9.31       116.77
*                                    B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
None
la  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  Credit amount is SDR 9.4 million (equivalent of US$12.0 million at time of
comitment).
Ic Amount expressed here is US$ equivalent of undisbursed SDR amount in terms of US$
commltment.
Id  Credit amount is SDR 12.3 million (equivalent of US$15.0 million at time of
commitment).
le Credit amount is SDR 2.7 million (equsivalent of US$3.0 million at time of commitment).
If As of August 31, 1984.



-28-                                 ANNE  II}
Pa'ge I
PAPUA NEW GUINE&
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPENIT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken by the country to prepare the project:   Two years
Project preparation agency:                          Provincial Government/
National Planning Office
First presentation of project to the Bank:           August 1983
Departure of appraisal mission:                      November 1983
Completion of negotiations:                          August 1984
Planned date of effectiveness:                       February 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) that offers of employment have been extended to seven persons to
fill key positions (para. 66); and
(ii) that the four national positions have been advertised in the
government gazette (para. 66).
(b) Other Conditions,
The Government would ensure that:
(i) provincial and local roads improved or upgraded under the
project, would be adequately maintained (para. 49);
(ii)  before initiating the central community school subproject (para.
51) and any subprojects costing more than $75,000 to be added to
the project during implementation (para. 55), these would be
approved by the Bank;
(iii)  prior to their initiation, the scope and cost of the investment
studies (para. 48) and the LDP studies (para. 56) would be
submitted to the Bank for comments;



- 29 -                                ANNEX III
Page 2
(iv) by December 31, 1985 and December 31, 1988, respectively, the
Staff Development Unit would prepare a preliminary report and a
final report on a staff training program (para. 54);
(v) the project would be carried out in accordance with agreed
implementation and recruitment schedules (para. 57);
(vi)  quarterly progress reports and an annual suzmary report of the
national government review team would be submitted annually to
the Bank (para. 67); and
(vii) a baseline survey would be completed and a data gathering and
evaluation system established by June 30, 1986 (para. 68).
(c) Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing of up to $400,000 is proposed for eligible
project expenditures made after Harch 31, 1984 (para. 59).



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                              1
WEST SEPIK PROVINCE                                                         - ,
Agriculture                                                            i
t ~        ~         i :'                                                                                                                I ;;;      ,, - \x';  4--
j-                '0   N.
jI       8    ^   --   ----'                                                 BI2-b
j                        ~ ~~~~~~~N
B
Ht              ;                  it         nr 0    B0  A.
~~~~~~~-                                            it        it        n>i '       ';--POF;!t20t 
L   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V 
,   - . - r                                                                _  Pobb      _     J~tr-b-NUP43,_-e50-
p              ~~~B
aGO  ~~~-
0i'PrrPOSE A' PICULTUPAL EPLJPr IETS
i  V.tobl. PNoud-.o- nd -t.o.&.r.
w                                                                                                       Caft CoPe. on.d Cscoo Prsd-n.,
i     I                     I                                                                       CS R,be 8 A cu|vIt-.or. *ot
!u                                                  Z                                                   g..cjiturol SuCcor' Prbtv.w
!_______                   --           -_                          A     -   Po.-.. .-l. F.-9        G-d--
o L~~~                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ B    ,ogo Gc'k..ng &. CuIl.eofcn. Huor.q.c.5cboe.ng
__-c-                                                                                     ___   S_- Poru7*too Tand .v /eg.,obl Go'd..~
z     !C                                                                                            F  Cavil,          leaver Buffo'o
|I                                            ,,.  - El  '                                              r:E3
0 |   *    P.o....c.  DPI CO t r_r
I  c                          0 5    D.:r.c-  UPI Cn'.vs
C                                  S Sobd.cSvo DPI C.nr.'
i-                                                    |-            *    F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E.-n-,.on Cr?nex
V                                   .              [A   'ocoa FA hrov.a ws
.; '.re~~borrn                                               K               =    HACoroDr:::t).:
CD. |                 _.*                       -       rjo,c  Rond:
-|      -   -[~~0->                                                      -  -         ,r   d-
I        -i                  ; C       -                         (       ;ri;:;.:;             .zJD
I  "-.' '.'-'-I'- '.".''''''.-''-:'''--''''                    :






