Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5017-PNG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 11, 1984
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1984)
Currency Unit =  Kina (K)
KL             =  US$1.18
US$L           =  K 0.85
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)               = 2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)            = 2,204.6 pounds (lbs)
= 1.1023 short tons (2,000 lbs)
= 0.9842 long tons (2,240 lbs)
1 kilometer (km)              = 0.6214 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)  = 100 ha = 0.3861 square miles
l hectare (ha)                = 2.4711 acres
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 3L
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DOF     -   Department of Finance
DPI     -   Division of Primary Industry (Agriculture)
DWS     -   Department of Works and Supply
HQPC    -   Headquarters Project Coordinator
HQPCC   -   Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee
lASER   -   Institute of Applied Social and Economic Research
LDP     -   Less Developed Provinces
LGC     -   Local Government Council
NPEP    -   National Public Expenditures Plan
NPO     -   National Planning Office
OPC     -   Office of Project Coordination
PC      -   Project Coordinator
PMT     -   Provincial Management Team
PNC     -   Papua New Cuinea
PSC     -   Public Service Commission
SOE     -   Statement of Expenditures
VDC     -   Village Development Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table c' Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary ..................................... .                 iii
I.   BACKCROUND ..o....................................... .......... ...........         1
A.  Introduction .....  ..... ................0........ .......................     1
B.  Structure of Government .............. ............. ......                     1
C.  Development Objectives and Less Developed Provinces ......                      2
D.  Bank Financed Agricultural Projects .......................                     3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA .......... ..  ................................... ...              4
A.  Physical Characteristics . ................ .................                   4
B.  The West Sepik People........... ..........................                     4
C.  Agricultural S........... ....................              ... .......         5
D.  Provincial Economy ...... .............             ........ .......... .       7
E.  Government Structure ..*. ** * .....................................            8
F.  Public Services .... *... ... . . . . . . . . .. . .......................... O...... .  8
III.    THE PROJECT ...................             ...............................        11
A.  Objectives and Scope .           ....   ..... .  .................. .. . . . .  .  11
B.  Detailed Features ..... .   ......          . . ................... . ....... .  13
C.  Implementation Period and Status .......... o ..............                   24
IV.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING ......... ....             .......... ...... .          25
Ao  Cost Estimates .....            ...........O.....,..... O........................  25
B.  Financing ......................................0...................... .     26
Co  Procurement .                                                                  27
D.  Accounting and Auditing ........ .  ........................ .  . . ..... .    28
E.  Disbursements ....... .................... ............. .0.                  ............... 28
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ....... . ..                   29
A.  Implementation Responsibility ............................                     29
B.  Management, Coordination and Reporting ..................o.                    29
C.  Project Staffing . ..... . ... ...... o..o ................ ..                 32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. A. Hasan, J. P. Baudelaire, D. Parbery, F. Iqbal, and Ms. C. Clark
(Bank) which visited PNG in November 1983. The report was reviewed by
Mr. K. Sengupta (Bank).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance oa
their offil duties. Is contents may not otherwie be discloed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
VI.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........ ...........................    32
A.  Nonquantifiable Benefits .................................    33
B. Quantifiable Benefits and Economic Analysis ............. .    33
Co Farm Incomes        .............                             35
D.  Agricultural Production and Marketing ................... .    35
E. Fiscal Impact   .      ....................................   36
F.  Environmental Impact .............................................    36
C.    Risks  ...............................                     36
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS     .......................    37
A.  Conditions of Loan Effectiveness .........................    37
B.  Agreements ...    .................................    37
ANNEXES
1.  Tables 1.  Provincial Population and Land Distribu*ion
2.  Subsistence Systems in West Sepik
3.  Project Roads
4.  Implementation Schedule:  Key Indicators
5.  Incremental Staff and Recruitment
2.  Tables 1.  Project Cost Sulmmary (by Component)
2.  Project Cost Summary (by Category)
3.  Procurement Arrangements
4.  Disbursements Schedule
3.  Tables 1.  Implementation Responsibility
4.  Table 1.   Economic Costs and Benefits:  Long-Term
Agricultural and Roads Investment Program
2.  Costs and Benefits of Highlands Vegetable
Subproject
3.  Farm Incomes
5.  Selected Documents Available in Project File
CHARTS
World Bank 25784  Provincial Government Organization Chart
World Bank 25944  Implementation Schedule:  Project Components
MAPS
IBRD 17935 Agriculture
IBRD 17936 Social Infrastructure and Road Network



- iii -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Papua New Guinea (PNG)
Beneficiary:        West Sepik Provincial Government
Amount:             US$9.7 million (including capitalized front-end fee)
Terms:              The loan would be for a term of 20 years, including a grace
period of 5 years, at the standard variable rate.
Project
Description:     The proposed project would constitute the first five-year
phase of a long-term effort to accelerate social and econo-
mic development in West Sepik, one of the poorest provinces
in Papua New Guinea. The objective of the project is to
strengthen the human, agricultural, institutional and
physical resource base to enable directly-productive and
market-oriented activities to be carried out now and in the
future. Specifically, the project includes: (a) agricul-
tural development comprising subsistence agriculture, cash
crops including tree crops and vegetables, strengthening of
support services and special studies to investigate and
prepare future agricultural projects; (b) infrastructure
development through road upgrading and rehabilitation,
airstrip upgrading and wharf construction; (c) health and
nutrition services development including malnutrition
research in the Lumi district, a school niutrition program,
and training and supervision of primary health care
workers; (d) education and training improvement comprising
establishment of central community schools, boarding
facilities, an in-service training center, and vocational
training; and (c) institution building through upgrading of
the provincial management, financial and staff development
functions.
Benefits:           It is expected that quantifiable benefits of higher family
incomes would accrue to about 90% of the 114,000 people
living in the West Sepik Province over the long-term as a
result of the development program, of which this project is
a first phase. Many unquantifiable benefits such as more
balanced diets, improved health and nutrition, improved
educational coverage and quality, and improved services are
expected.



-iv -
Risks:              The main project risks are:  (a) the likely delay in
recruiting the professional staff required to help imple-
ment the project cwing to procedural problems; (b) poten-
tial management and coordination problems arising from the
project's relacive complexity and remote location; and
(c) poor participant response and the possibility of intro-
ducing culturally inappropriate practices. The recruitment
risk would be minimized by the appointment of key project
staff before project initiation. A Project Coordinator
would be appointed to ensure coordination of the various
project components. The risk of low response has been
reduced by proposing modest modification in the farming
system, requiring low but adequate levels of skills and
technology, and directing the project to areas where
acceptance is likely to be high. Also, a monitoring and
evaluation officer would be appointed to assess among
others the socioeconomic appropriateness of, and response
of the participants to, project activities.



Estimated Cost:                                          Local /a  Foreign  Total
- 1 milijo…) 
Agricultural development             2.1        1.7        3.8
Infrastructure                       1.1        1.7        2.8
Health and nutrition                 0.3        0.2        0.5
Education and training               0.5        0.4        0.9
Lumi special program                 0.1        0.1        0.2
Institution building                 0.7        0.6        1.3
Unappraised component                0.8        0.5        1.3
LDP planning studies                 0.4        1.1        1.5
Base cost estimate                 6.0        6.3      12.3
Physical contingencies               0.4        0.5        0.9
Price contingencies                  1.8        1.6        3.4
Total Project Cost             8.2        8.4       16.6
Front-end fee on Bank loan            -         0.02       0.02
Total Financing Required       8.20       8.42      16.62
Financing Plan:                                           Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                                 1.28       8.42       9.70
Government                           6.92        -         6.92
Total                          8.20       8.42      16.62
Estimated
Disbursements:                  FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
--------------- Fs m million)-n
Annual        0.4    0.8    2.4    1.8    1.5    1.7    1.1
Cumulative   0.4    1.2    3.6    5.4    6.9    8.6    9.7
Rate of Return:    16Z on a representative agricultural subproject.  Given the
nature of the project no overall rate of return has been
calculaced.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           Report No. 5017-PNC dated September 1984.
/a Including $0.4 million for taxes and duties.



I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Papua New Guinea has requested Bank  assistance
for the initiation of a development program in the West Sepik Province, which
is one of the least developed and poorest provinces in the country. The pro-
posed project constitutes the first phase of the development program. Project
components include subsistence farming and cash crop development, nutrition
improvement measures, health system upgrading, road improvements, education
and training, and the strengthening of provincial administration. The West
Sepik Provincial Government was responsible for project preparation with
assistance from the national Government.
1.02      General.  Papua New Guinea (PNG) is a mountainous country endowed
with reasonably good soils, abundant rainfall, considerable mineral resources,
and forestry and fishery resources with commercial potential. It has a land
area of about 500,000 sq km and a population of only about three million. The
economy is highly dualistic, with about 15% of the population employed in the
modern monetary sector (mining, government, small manufacturing and services)
and about 85% largely living as subsistence farmers in traditional societies
in sparsely populated rural areas where economic opportunities are limited,
productivity is low and local services generally poor. The population in many
parts of the country has only recently come into contact with the outside
world. Although GNP per capita in 1983 is estimated at $800, the imputed per
capita income of subsistence farmers was only about $240.
1.03      Besides providing employment for a majority of the population, the
agricultural sector contributes about 35% of GDP and 50% of total exports. In
1982, the main cash crops (practically all for export) were (in metric tons):
coffee (41,000), cocoa (29,000), copra (74,000), palm oil (77,000), and rubber
(4,500). The main subsistence crops are sago, sweet potatoes, bananas and
taro. Responsibility for development of the agricultural sector, including
forestry and fisheries, rests with the Department of Primary Industry at the
national level which is responsible for overall policy and planning, operation
of agricultural colleges and research stations and provision of specialized
technical assistance. At the provincial level, the Division of Primary
Industry (DPI) handles extension, farmer training and imilementation of
agricultural development programs. Provincial DPI are under the control of
the provincial governments.
B. Structure of Government
1.04      PNG has a parliamentary system of government which is highly decen-
tralized in recognition of the diversity of people in the country. In all,
there are 19 provinces each with an average population of about 160,000.
Primary provincial responsibilities include local government councils and
courts, primary and nonformal education, housing, regulation of trade (other
than banks), cultural activities and public entertainment. Concurrent (or
shared) responsibilities which allow provincial governments considerable
latitude in matters exclusively affecting the province, include agriculture,



-2-
health (excluding hospitals), secondary education, and roads (excluding main
highways). To discharge the above responsibilities the provinces have public
service departments with their own bylaws and staff transferred from the
corresponding national units.
1.05      Provinces are allowed to charge a head tax as well as fees and taxes
on retail sales, trading licenses, public entertainment, and land. The
national government provides the provinces with funds to cover all recurrent
costs, and development expenditures. In addition, the national government
also refunds to the provinces the proceeds of certain taxes collected in the
provinces and 1.25% of the value of goods produced in and exported from the
province (derivation grants). Locally generated revenues of the provincial
governments contribute only about 6% of their expenditures, with 94% being
provided by the national government. The provincial contribution is low
mainly because of the limited tax base and the low level of market activity in
most provinces. One consequence of decentralization is that heavy demands
have been placed on provincial governments to provide and expand the services
originally provided by national departments. This has adversely affected ser-
vices because the provinces lack adequately qualified and experienced staff
and there is insufficient coordination between national and provincial
efforts.
C. Development Objectives and Less Developed Provinces
1.06      Tte main development problem confronting the country is how to
achieve growth with equity in a dualistic setting in which the bulk of the
economy is geared to subsistence. Little surplus is produced for investment
and few channels exist for marketing what surplus there might be.  "Enclave"
development is taking place (through plantations and mines) but while this has
the advantage of earning much-needed foreign exchange it also has the drawback
of not spreading benefits widely or evenly. For equitable growth to occur,
more of the population needs to benefit directly from projects designed to
improve their health, nutrition, and education, and increase their incomes and
access to government services and markets.
1.07      Government, through its four-year National Public Expenditures Plan
(NPEP), is addressing a wide range of development objectives throughout the
country, including the development of the nine less-developed provinces
(LDPs). Of particular significance for the LDPs are the objectives of
increasing growth in the smallholder sector by strengthening agricultural
support services, and improving physical infrastructure and human resources
through investment in roads and education. The major aim of agricultural
intervention is to diversify food production and consumption to improve nutri-
tion, and to increase incomes from cash crops. Recognizing the inadequacy of
the road network - the majority of the population remains isolated and
inaccessible except by foot or air - the Government has begun to move away
from its former emphasis on major road construction towards greater emphasis
on feeder roads for smaller population centers and rural areas. At the same
time, Covernment attaches great importance to the provision of education; its
policy objectives are to expand enrollment particularly for females, correct
the imbalances of educational opportunities among provinces, and improve the
quality of education. Nonformal education is also gaining increased



attention, especially in rural areas which are generally bypassed by the
formal school system. For the LDPs, the Government is attempting to achieve
the above objectives through multi-sectoral provincial projects. Three such
projects are currently underway, two with financing from the Bank and one with
financing from the Asian Development Bank.
D.  Bank Financed Agricultural Projects
1.08      In line with PNC's agricultural development strategy, the Bank group
is supporting the following three types of projects: (a) tree crop develop-
ment through a site specific nucleus estate project (Popondetta Oil PaLm
Project, Ln. 1333-PNG, $20 million) and on a national basis through a credit
project (Agriculture Credit II Project, Cr. 1149-PNG, $15 million). The
Popondetta project is assisting 1400 smallholders at Popondetta establish oil
palm blocks. The credit project supports PNG Developnent Bank's lending for
tree crop development by smallholders; (b) support services development at
the national level (Agricultural Support Services Project, Ln. 2276-PNC,
$14.1 million). This project would strengthen research, extension, planning
and quarantine services at the national level; and (c) provincial agricultural
development as part of multi-sectoral projects in less developed provinces
(para. 1.09). The efforts of the first two types of projects complement the
agricultural interventions under the provincial projects.
1.09      The two provincial development projects supported by the Bank Group
are: (a) the Southern Highlands Rural Development (SHRD) Project: (Cr. 841-
PNG, $20 million); and (b) the Enga Provincial Development Project: (Ln. 2125/
Cr. 1227-PNC, $6 million Loan, $2 million credit). The SHRD Project aims to
develop the Southern Highlands Province by investments in infrastructure and
cash crops and by supporting health, education and applied research pro-
grams. The Enga project is part of a multisectoral provincial development
program for the Enga Province; it includes provincial institution building, a
variety of agricultural, forestry and livestock developments, and investments
in infrastructure, health, education and community development.
1.10      The SHRD project is expected to be completed satisfactorily in
mid-1985. Most components of the Enga project are being well implemented;
delays in staff recruitment have adversely affected two of the agricultural
subprojects. Efforts are underway to resolve these problems. The following
major lessons have been learnt during implementation of these projects:
(a) before project start-up aLl procedural matters relating to staff recruit-
ment should be settled and recruitment of kev staff should be ensured; (b) in
view of the complexity of these projects and the need for good interdepart-
mental coordination within and among national and provincial departments,
there should be a strong project coordination system at both the national and
provincial levels; (c) project coordination, management and implementation
should be integrated into provincial administrative procedures; (d) the lag of
12-18 months between expenditures and reimbursement should be reduced;
(e) projects should include measures (e.g., studies, land evaluation, etc.) to
identify and prepare directly productive agricultural and commercial ventures
for follow-up projects; and (f) staff from key national departments should be
closely involved in project preparation and appraisal. These lessons have
been incorporated into the design of the proposed project.



- 4 -
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Characteristics
2.01      West Sepik Province covers a land area of about 36,000 sq km (7.2Z
of PNC's land area). It has three broadly defined zones: a high mountainous
region to the south, the Sepik River Basin in the middle, and a low coastal
mountain range and narrow littoral strip to the north (IBRD Map No. 17935).
Average annual rainfall varies from 2,000 mm in the eastern part of the pro-
vince to 3,400 mm in the western part. A drier season is experienced in most
areas from May to September, but soil water deficiency in not a problem. Soil
types range from sandy (in coastal areas) to moderately developed entisols on
the alluvial plains. The predominant vegetation is rain forest with patches
of grassland. Preliminary studies indicate about 300,000 ha of land suitable
for tree crops.
B. The West Sepik People
2.02      The province is one of the last areas to be brought under the
Covernment's administrative control, and has had sustained contact with the
outside world for onLy about 40 years. The population of the province is
about 114,000, with an average family size of six. Population density aver-
ages 3.1 per sq km, but can range between about 30 and 0.1 per sq km (Annex 1,
Table 1). It is one of the most rural provinces, with about 94% of the popu-
lation living in rural areas; the remainder live in government centers, the
largest of which is Vanimo with a population of about 3,000. Population is
growing at about 2.5Z p.a., and is likely to increase in the future, given the
high proportion of young people, improvements in health services, the
declining use of traditional birth spacing practices, and low emigration.
2.03      Social Organization.  West Sepik is perhaps the most hewerogeneous
linguistic area in the world; a total of about 95 languages are spokec, with
each language representing a distinct cultural group. Pidgin has been adopted
throughout the province as the lingua franca. Despite their links with the
outside world and some involvement in the cash economy, most of the people
remain a clan-based subsistence-oriented society with a very rudimentary
standard of hygiene, clothing and shelter. There is little political integra-
tion beyond the clan, which constitutes the basic unit of land tenure.
Although clan lands have recognizable boundaries, they are often subject to
disputes. Each family has access to land for food gardens, but gardening and
hunting rights are very complex and vary among the clans. In general, food
production is at the sole disposal of the family, while incomes from cash
crops and wage employment are often shared within subclans. Men undertake,
generally collectively, the heavy tasks of clearing and preparing the land as
well as fencing, hunting and gathering, while women tend the gardens and
provide food for subsistence and sale. Men devote a fair part of their time
to ceremonies and rituals.
2.04      Sago is the most important element in the diet of all except the
people of the highland areas where sweet potato and taro are dominant. In



both cases the diet is supplemented by grubs and small animals which form the
main source of protein. The inadequacy of protein intake (bush game is
scarce) and the overwhelming reliance on starchy foods makes for generally
poor nutrition. High malnutrition, especially among children, exists in some
parts ot the province.
2.05      Despite the traditional nature of the West Sepik people, there is
evidence of a general desire for socio-economic development. In some
instances, villagers have been known to put up school buildings (of bush
material) in the hope that the Covernment would feel compelled to provide
teachers. In other instances, entire villages have shifted so as Lo be close
to a church mission or a road in the hope of benefiting from the services
(C.g., 4CCess to markets) typically associated with missions and ronds. A
vegetable growing project, started with modest means and even more modest
hopes in Telefomin District in 1979 has been remarkably successful in attract-
ing participants; in Aitape and Nuku Jiistricts, where road access is fairly
good, about 50% of the population is engaged (part-time) in cocoa and coffee
production. Overall, about 30X of the provincial population is involved, to
some extent, in cash cropping of either tree crops or vegetables. In general,
local attitudes and customs do not pose an insurmountable barrier to
development and change. Moreover, although the land tenure system is complex
and individual families do not own land, this complexity does not appear to
inhibit cash cropping as evidenced by the high proportion of people engaged in
this activity.
C.  Agri.cultural Sector  '
2.06      Suosistence System.  Subsistence agriculture comprises varying
combinations of food gardening, food gathering, hunting and fishing. There
are two broad divisions of subsistence agriculture (IBRD Map No. 17935):
(a) in the higher altitudes and some coastal areas the main activity is
gardening; (b) elsewhere, the people rely principally on cultivated and wild
stands of sago. Gardening is of low intensity and taro, sweet potato, yam,
and bananas are the principal crops. Hunting and gathering are common to all
rural people to a greater or lesser extent. In general, the size of sub-
sistence production by each family is determined by family needs, reciprocity
in form of gift--exchanges, planned feasts, redistribution to social groups,
need to safeguard against natural hazards and for sale in local markets.
Considering the complexity of subsistence activities, it is difficult to
describe a typical socio-economic unit. Some variatioas within the subsist-
ence system are described in Annex I, Table 2 for indicatiie purposes.
2.07      The subsistence system based on sago is inadequate in two
respects. It does not provide good nutrition and, in certain areas, it is not
productive enough to feed the population. Since there is no reason to believe
that the population pressure will abate in the near future it is important to
1/   In general, information (e.g., yields, production and land tenure) on
food production systems (gardening, hunting and gathering) and cash
cropping is sketchy. A baseline survey would be undertaken in 1985
(para. 5.07).



- 6 -
consider ways of increasing food production now. Mere expansion of the sub-
sistence system would not be an adequate solution since it provides a poor
diet. What is needed is a diversification of the system to include new food
crops with better nutritional value. At the moment, the development of food
crops is constrained by weak extension services and lack of adaptive research
on suitable crops and technologies.
2.08      Tree Crops.  In 1982 the production, planted area and families
involved in the major tree crops are as follows:  coffee 90 ton , 320 ha,
3,000 families; cocoa 30 tons, 380 h, 2,000 families; rubber 2  150 ha, 500
families; copra 800 tons, 3,600 ha.3   Because of complex land tenure
arrangements, the estimate of number of families should be considered indica-
tive. Average holdings are very small ranging from 0.15-0.3 ha. Provincial
production of cash crops represents less than 0.25Z of national cash crop out-
put. To increase smallholder plantings, DPI has a seedling distribution
program, which presently enables new planting annually of about 15 ha of
coffee, 5 ha of hybrid coconut, 20 ha of rubber and 10 ha of cocoa. For most
crops this program started in the late 1970s, and experience indicates that
farmers generally tend to plant small areas (around 0.1 ha) initially and
gradually expand to 0.2-0.3 ha over 3-4 years; this planting pattern reflects
the farmers' desire to minimize labor and cash costs and expand area as
familiarity with the crop increases. Income from these crops is very low
because of low yields and poor quality of the product. Inadequate supply of
good seedlings, poor cultivation and harvesting practices, and lack of exten-
sion have all contributed to the unsatisfactory yields and production.
Further, the poor road network and marketing infrastructure have inhibited
marketing, and consequently production. However, simple changes in husbandry
(better pruning, weed control, spacing, etc.) could quickly and substantiaLly
increase productivity, and with good demonstration efforts, effective agricul-
tural extension and increased supply of good quality planting material, the
potential for 4xpanding smallholder cocoa, rubber and coffee cropping is
considerable.4/
2.09      Commercial Vegetables.  In 1983 a total of about 6?5 tons of vegeta-
bles and 80 tons of spices and chilies were marketed in the province, mainly
at government centers and towns. DPI has encouraged production of these
crops. As a result of strong DPI support - extension, planting material and
marketing assistance - a successful vegetable project has been in operation in
the Telefomin-Oksapmin area supplying vegetables to the Ok Tedi mine in the
neighboring province. Vegetable production has increased from about 50 tons
2/   In 1984, about 5 tons of rubber are expected to be produced.
3/   In the case of coconut, smallholder production mainly originates from old
and abandoned plantations which have been given back to clans.
4/   In the coastal areas, the smallholders' response to ongoing coconut
seedling distribution program has been modest, because of their access to
large coconut plantations and relatively greater availabiity of off-farm
incomes. The current level of the program is adequate and therefore not
being expanded under the project.



-7-
(1978) to 675 tons in 1983. Vegetables are purchased at small market houses
in rural centers and flown out by church or commercial aircraft. With the
assistag7e of DPI and church staff, the producers have formed two business
groups;) both are operating successfully. Demand is growing rapidly at Ok
Tedi with present annual consumption of about 1,600 tons, which is expected to
double within 10 years. About 80% of future demand at Ok Tedi and the coastal
towns will be met by the incremental production of the project. Efforts are
needed to increase the supply base and improve existing marketing infrastruc-
ture. It is pertinent to note that recent research in PNG shows a positive
correlation between the spread of cash cropping and improvements in child
nutrition.
2.10      Others.  (a) Livestock and Fisheries.  Except for pigs, livestock is
not of great importance. However, introduction of poultry (chicken, ducks and
geese) and livestock (cattle and goats) into the farming system could provide
a substantial source of protein and a substitute for dwindling bush game.
Both DPI and church groups have been encouraging their introduction. Experi-
ence in some parts of the province and elsewhere in PNG indicates that farmers
have responded well to producing poultry and livestock for home consumption;
in many instances local markets have developed for these products. Fishing is
still primarily for subsistence, although DPI, with limited success, has been
encouraging commercial development of small-scale coastal fishing, salted fish
and crocodile hunting for skins; (b) Forestry. There is significant forestry
potential in the province and the Government is seeking joint venture partners
for a largc logging and timber processing project (100,000 ha) in the Vanimo
district.
D. Provincial Economy
2.11      Owing to the nature of the socio-economic system and limited devel-
opment efforts so far, the provincial economy is characterized by lack of a
developed monetary sector as well as a limited number of commercial activi-
ties. Thus, of the province's total estimated value of output in 1983
(K 24 million), the subsistence sector accounts for about 95% (national
average is only 15Z), cash crops about 1% and government expenditures the
remaining 4%. The province is rich in natural resources including commer-
cially exploitable forests covering about 9,000 sq km, and several ore bodies
with sizeable deposits. There are almost no employment opportunities outside
the Government and the church organizations.
2.12      With respect to level of development, the National Planning Of;ice's
(NPO) composite development index ranks West Sepik last among the 19 prov-
inces. The specific ranks by key socio-economic categories are: (a) per
capita agricultural income of about K 200 - 18th; (b) land transport (based on
the value of road transport investment per capita and per unit area) - 16th;
(c) health status (based on life expectancy, child mortality and child malnu-
trition) - 19th; (d) education status (based on adult literacy and enrollment
5/   In PNG it is quite common for clan members to get together and form
business groups for purposes of operating tradestores, developing clan
land and marketing produce.



- 8 -
rates) - 14th; and (e) government staffing (based on staff numbers in provin-
cial departments per thousand of provincial population) - 15th. The province
is one of three provinces in PNG where subsistence production made up over 50%
of the total provincial GDP. Value added, employment, wages and salaries in
the province's non-government sector are all the lowest among the provinces.
E. Government Structure
2.13      Background, Organization and Management.  West Sepik was part of the
Sepik District until 1966 when it too was granted district status. It became
a province in 1978. The province has a cabinet comprising a premier, deputy
premier and seven ministers, all of whom are elected members of the provincial
assembly. There is a provincial secretariat with staff that are political
appointees, and which is responsible for policy and planning and administra-
tive support to the provincial cabinet. In addition, there is the Department
of West Sepik, responsible for public administration in the province and
organized in sectoral divisions such as health, education, and agriculture.
This dual structure creates considerable tension. Most provinces have amalga-
mated the provincial secretariat with the Department. An amalgamated struc-
ture (Chart 25784) for West Sepik has been approved by the public service
commission and is expected to be fully implemented by March 1985. Total staff
of the Department of West 6epik is about 1,050 (including 470 teachers), of
which 41 are expatriates.-   Almost all staff belong to the national public
service.  The Department is headed by a Secretary, who reports to the provin-
cial cabinet. Coordination among all provincial divisions and other govern-
ment agencies within the province is effected through the Provincial Manage-
ment Team (PMT), which comprises the Secretary and all divisional heads.
2.14      Local Government Councils (LCC).  These are elected bodies responsi-
ble for rural improvement programs, local road maintenance and fostering
political integration and nation building at the grass-roots level. The
councils receive revenues from the provincial government and from local taxes.
As elsewhere in the country, performance of LCCs in West Sepik has not been
satisfactory because of mismanagement and lack of expertise. The national
government is reviewing measures to increase effectiveness of LGC operations.
F. Public Services
2.15      Overview.  West Sepik is one of the least developed provinces in
terms of access to public services (para. 2.12). While most public services
are provided by the Government, various church groups perform a useful role in
providing social services and vocational training. A substantial infrastruc-
ture program is required to enable West Sepik to catch up with the other prov-
inces. Moreover, its short administrative history, remote location, poor and
difficult internal communications, rapid localization, inadequate management
/6   25 volunteers and 16 contractual; 22 expatriate staff are in the
Education Division.



- 9 -
skills and staff training have all contributed to the ineffectiveness of
government services in West Sepik.
2.16      Roads.  West Sepik's transportation system is rudimentary and expen-
sive t; use. Access to the provincial capital, Vanimo, is by air and sea
only, and both the airfield and wharf are of limited size. The provincial
road network is fragmented, and concentrated around Vanimo and the larger
villages in Aitape and Nuku districts and does not provide intra-provincial
connections (IBRD Map No. 17936). Light aircraft play a major role in the
provincial passenger and freight traffic. Walking remains the principal mode
of travel for the majority of the people. West Sepik has a road network of
approximately 620 km comprising 280 km of national highways, 100 km of provin-
cial roads and 240 km of district roads. The coastal and Sepik highways are,
in general, adequately maintained by the provincial branch of the Department
of Works and Supply (DWS) through equipment-intensive methods. The DWS is
also responsible for the construction and maintenance of provincial roads on
behalf of the province. The LGCs are responsible for the district roads and
generally construct and maintain them manually; many provincial and most of
the district roads are in bad condition partly for lack of adequate main-
tenance funds, and partly because of weaknesses and lack of adequate control
at LGC level. As a result, many roads are impassable and require upgrading
and rehabilitation over large sections. At present the allocation for road
maintenance is inadequate. A substantial increase of funds would be required
to maintain the roads built under the project to a reasonable level. It is
also necessary that all roads improved under the project would be maintained
under the overall supervision of DWS.
2.17      Agricultural Support Services.  DPI is responsible for extension
(including input supply and farmer training), and marketing support. It has a
staff of 80, organized along functional lines - fishery, livestock, crops, and
forestry. Staff are located at some 18 district and subdistrict centers which
provide accommodation, offices, and produce and storage sheds of varying
standard. The ratio of district extension staff to farm families is
1:2,000. At each district and subdistrict center, DPI has about 3-5 ha avail-
able for the propagation of planting material, demonstration of crop and live-
stock husbandry techniques, the holding of livestock for distribution, and
observation trials of new crops or varieties. With varying degrees of suc-
cess, DPI has been promoting production of rice, chilies, vegetables, cocoa,
rubber, coffee and hybrid coconut - mainly through distribution of seeds and
planting material and technicai advice. To meet the current level of seedling
distribution program for various tree crops (para. 2.08) DPI operates
nurseries for coffee (10 nurseries), cocoa (3) and rubber (2). Coconut
seedlings are obtained from another province; DPI also has 5 trial plots for
hybrid coconut.
2.18      The extent and success of DPI's activities vary greatly with the
interest and capabilities of supervisory staff. In general, crop extension
has been inadequate, and little effort has gone into food crops or small live-
stock. Moreover, the effectiveness of extension has been limited because of
the concentration of extension staff in the Larger district centers, poor
staff mobility due to the widely dispersed population, rudimentary and expen-
sive transportation network and limited travel funds, and inadequate



- 10 -
experience, supervision and training. Moreover, nursery operations are not
very satisfactory (losses are high and seedling quality poor) and also there
is currently no regular farmer training program or adaptive research of any
significance in the province. Because of these deficiencies, the operating
style of DPI has been passive rather than active. Services are provided upon
demand to those who come to DPI centers and ask for assistance; they are not
generally extended through visits to villages. Measures to strengthen
extension services are included in the proposed project.
2.19      The marketing of food surpluses in the rural areas is often one of
the few means people have to earn some money; food is usually sold to Govern-
ment and church staff at the district and subdistrict centers where markets
are run by the LGCs which collect a small gate fee from the sellers to pay for
upkeep of the facilities.  Marketing arrangements vary according co location
and accessibility. Private traders operate only in the areas with road access
and sizeable volume of production, such as for copra and cocoa in the Nuku and
Aitape Districts. DPI acts as a buyer of last resort in remote areas with low
production volumes. DPI's intervention ranges from buying and selling to pro-
viding storage, arranging transportation, encouraging private buyers, and
organizing sales. In 1982, the private sector bought K 208,000 worth of pro-
duce, mainly copra, compared to DPI's purchase of about K 31,000. The low
volume of produce handled, however, is somewhat misleading as to DPI's true
impact. In some cases (e.g., the successful development of vegetable produc-
tion in Telefomin District), DPI has been instrumental in organizing the
marketing system. In general, marketing remains a major constraint to cash
crop development in certain parts of the province which are otherwise well
suited to such development - examples include rubber at Amanab, vegetables at
Tekap and Bemin, and cocoa, coffee in the Nuku/Seim region. Because of access
probLems and low output volumes, the private sector does not present a solu-
tion at present. To provide the initial impetus, DPI would have to step in.
However, organizational strengthening is needed to improve DPI's existing
marketing activities.
2.20      Health.  In terms of health status, the province is the worst among
PNG provinces  para. 2.12).   This is partly a consequence of local dietary
practices and partly of the inadequacy and poor quality of health services
available in the province. There are at present 25 health centers and sub-
centers and 115 aid posts, generally of poor quality, lacking both proper
equipment and adequately trained staff. Improvement of the skills and know-
ledge of aid post orderlies is needed, considering the substantial potential
they have as agents of change in villages given their day-to-day contact with
villagers and the respect in which they are generally held.
2.21      Education.  The province's enrollment ratios are about the same as
the national average; enrollment rates are 56% at the community (primary)
school level and 121 at the high school level, compared to 60% and 13% nation-
ally. The main problem lies with educational standards which are low and
ralling, particularly in isolated community schools which are affected by high
absenteeism, poor teacher quality, inadequate teaching materials, poor facili-
ties and high attrition. These isolated community schools serve scattered and
remote populations with pupils often having to walk several hours to get to
them. The provision of education (in both quantity and quality terms) varies



- 11 -
widely from district to district in accordance with physical accessibility and
socioeconomic conditions. To improve the efficiency of education and redress
the inequality in its distribution are major aims of the provincial govern-
ment. To address community school problems, the provincial government has
started (in 1984) a pilot program (Central Community School Program) to close
some isolated schools, upgrade and expand centrally located schools, and
provide these with boarding facilities. This program will be evaluated in
1986 by the University of PNG's Education Research Unit and if found satisfac-
tory will be incorporated into the project.
2.22      Government Revenues and Expenditures.  In 1983, total provincial
government revenues are estimated at about K 9.7 million, about 97% of which
are transfers from the national budget, with the remaining coming from the
province mainly as derivation grants, sales taxes and head taxes. While most
provinces rely heavily on nationaL government financing for development and
recurrent expenditures, the situation in West Sepik is particularly severe as
the low Level of market activity sharpLy limits the scope for local revenue
generation. Furthermore, per capita expenditures are among the lowest in the
country. In 1983, per capita expenditure was K 80, compared with the average
for all provinces of K 100. There is concern that West Sepik deserves and can
utilize more resources. The proposed project is viewed by the National
Covernment as a vehicle to channel greater resources to West Sepik and to
ensure that incremental expenditures are in line with development priorities.
2.23      In 1983, revenues were allocated as follows: infrastructure (40%),
education (20X), health (14%), administration (16%), agriculture (8X), and
others (2%). About 60% of expenditures was for provincial government operat-
ing costs, 18% for road maintenance, and the remaining 22% for capital works,
mainly road upgrading, schools and health facilities. The pattern of expendi-
tures in the past has been generally similar and reflects the priority given
by the provincial government to social services and infrastructure. As a
result of the project, expenditures on agriculture will increase to about 20%.
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and Scope
3.01      Provincial Development Objectives.  The major economic and social
development goals of the province are to: (a) enable the people to make an
orderly transition from an isolated way of life involving hunting and shifting
cultivation to a more integrated and modern way of life and settled form of
agriculture; (b) increase productivity and production in subsistence agricul-
ture and cash cropping in order to increase incomes and improve nutrition;
(c) improve the availability and effectiveness of government services; and
(d) increase the provincial revenue base. Change is desired by the provincial
population which realizes that others in the country are more "modern" and
that from this modernity stems an improved standard of living. Their most
frequently articulated wants are better roads, health services, schools and
opportunities to iaicrease cash income.



- 12 -
3.02      Project Scope and Objectives.  The project involves:
(a) agricultural development comprising subsistence agriculture, cash
crops including tree crops and vegetables, strengthening of support
services and investment studies to investigate and prepare future
agricultural projects;
(b) infrastructure development comprising road upgrading and rehabilita-
tion, airstrip upgrading and wharf construction;
(c) health and nutrition services development including malnutrition
research in Lumi district, a school nutrition program, and training
and supervision of primary health care workers;
(d) training and education improvement comprising establishment of
central community schools, boarding facilities, an in-service
training center, and vocational training; and
(e) institution building comprising the upgrading of the Provincial
Planning and Coordination Division, the Provincial Finance and
Management Services Division and the establishment of a Provincial
Staff Development Unit.
3.03      The project represents the first five-year phase (1985-89) of a
long-term program (30-40 years), to meet provincial development objectives.
The project covers all of West Sepik, and is a pioneering effort at acceler-
ating the building of a technological, manpower, entrepreneurial, infrastruc-
tural and institutional base which could effectively hasten economic and
social development. By seeking to improve the physical and human resource
base, the project would begin to address the minimum necessary conditions of
development. A positive feature of the project is the involvement of local
leaders, technocrats and provincial inhabitants in its preparation. In
addition, the project concentrates on improvement and expansion of existing
activities, and avoids the introduction of many new activities, in recognition
of the provincial government's limited organizational capability. Some new
initiatives are proposed, particularly in agriculture and education, to fill
deficiencies which limit development. Also, particular attention was given in
project design to ensure that the components and the envisaged pace of change
are feasible in the provincial sociocultural setting. Project activities are
phased over the five years to make the workload compatible with implementation
capacity.
3.04      When viewed in the context of the constraints, priorities and limi-
ted options available to the province, the project concept is sound. The
project design reflects the poor development base and the difficulty of induc-
ing change in a society emerging from relative isolation. About 60% of proj-
ect funds are directed at human and physical resource development - invest-
ments in infrastructure, health, institution-building and education. This
relatively large investment in productive support components is needed at West
Sepik's present stage of development. The very low level of commercial
activity in the province and the inadequate economic base limit the scope for
productive investments in the near term.



- 13 -
3.05      The project's main development effort aims to increase marketed and
non-marketed agricultural output (and consequently family incomes) through
encouraging farmers to increase cash crop plantings and diversifying food
production. The strategy employed is to strengthen support services and
improve transport thereby enabling farmers to have access to markets,
technical advice, planting material and inputs. The project's agricultural
components will entail modest changes in production (and consumption), and to
implement these, the farmers will be expected Lo allocate more time to culti-
vation and less to hunting, gathering and rituals. On a per househoLd basis,
it is estimated that 50 man-days would be needed to increase and diversify
food and cash crop production so as to achieve an increase of about 10% in
family household income (para. 6.06). Such a re-allocation of time appears
feasible because: (a) it amounts to only a small proportion (12%) of the
available man-days per household; (b) the workload is increased gradually over
a number of years; (c) traditional food procurement activities are becoming
more difficult as bush game has become scarce and sago sources near settle-
ments are being depleted; and (d) there is a general desire among the popula-
tion to increase cash incomes. Moreover, the envisaged activities should fit
easily into existing production patterns. Thus, while hunting and sago
gathering are predominant, some gardening is common to most parts of the
province and, where concerted efforts have been made by church grcups or DPI
staff, people have expanded and developed their gardens. Vegetable gardening
has been very successful in the Highlands area. Also, small amounts of
coffee, cocoa, and rubber are aLready grown in some areas. What is required
for further development is advice on methods to increase yields, diversify
crops and gain access to markets.
3.06      The Government attaches high priority to the LDP program which sup-
ports development of human and physical resources, and of subsistence agricul-
ture for the rural poor. The Bank's involvement in the LDP program has had a
noteworthy impact on the design of projects under the program, in particular
measures to ensure that the projects are appropriate on social, financial and
economic grounds and sound on technical and implementation aspects. This
project is also suitably designed and its nature and thrust is in line with
the Bank's country assistance strategy for PNG. An important contribution of
the project would be promoting provincial institution building and initiating
development of new subsistence farming technologies and approaches - lessons
learned from these efforts would benefit other provinces. Given the limited
resources available to the Government, the Bank's participation is crucial to
implementation of the proposed project.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Development ($3.82 million; 31%) 71
3.07      The agricultural component would focus on developing subsistence
agriculture and cash crops, strengthening support services and undertaking
7/   Dollar figures in parenthesis indicate baseline costs excluding contin-
gencies, while percentage indicates these costs as percentage of total
project baseline costs.



- 14 -
special studies (Working Paper No. 1). The implementation is phased over five
years to match the capacity of DPI. By the end of the project period it is
expected that the agricultural efforts will: (a) assist about 2,000 families
in increasing and diversifying subsistence food production from gardens, and
bring under garden-type cultivation on some 100 ha of additional land;
(b) increase area under cocoa by 160 ha by providing seeds, extension, and
marketing advice to about 800 new families; (c) assist about 1,000 existing
coffee/cocoa growers in improving present operations; (d) increase by 300 ha,
the area under commercial vegetables for about 2,000 families in four
districts of the province; and (e) assist about 300 farmers to plant 100 ha of
rubber and 500 existing producers to market their rubber.
3.08      Subsistence Agriculture ($0.45 million).  Traditionally, DPI has
concentrated on cash cropping and has applied few resources to subsistence
farming. The project would establish a Food Crops Section in the DPI with the
objectives of increasing and diversifying subsistence food production and
expanding vegetable marketing (para. 3.13). The Food Crops Section would
consist of a team of two horticulturists - an expatriate food crops officer
and a national counterpart. The team would be located in Vanimo and work
under the supervision of the assistant secretary in charge of the DPI. The
project would finance the team's expenditures including housing, vehicles, and
incremental salaries, travel and subsistence allowances, and operating
costs. The improvement of subsistence farming would be province-wide, but
special attention would be focussed on Lumi and Amanab districts where malnu-
trition is high. The team would, through the field extension staff: (a)
promote simple technological changes such as stronger protective garden
fencing; mulching and composting of crop residues to enhance soil fertility,
reduce erosion, and fallowing; (b) establish nurseries in selected districts
for the distribution (free of charge) of better varieties of staple crops,
vegetables and fruit trees; (c) promote establishment of small gardens around
the villages for nutritionally higher value food production; and (d) encourage
farmers to use simple tools to increase productivity. The team would provide
overall guidance, and training to the field extension staff, and with the
assistance of the Staff Development Unit (para. 3.42) it would train field
extension staff on advising farmers on subsistence farming improvements and
appropriate extension skills.
3.09      The Food Crops team would form the core group for conducting field
trials and adaptive research to develop improved varieties and cultural prac-
tices. During 1985, the Research Director in the national Department of
Primary Industry (appointed under the Bank-financed Agricultural Support
Services Project), would review ongoing research on subsistence agriculture
and propose provincial research projects as part of a national program on
subsistence farming research. For West Sepik, it is expected that adaptive
research on lowland subsistence farming would be initiated by 1986 and funds
have been set aside for this purpose (para. 3.43).
3.10      The team would assist the Provincial Planning Division (para. 5.07)
to survey subsistence farming practices throughout the province to establish
baseline data. It would also assist and encourage community and high schools
to establish food gardens to improve student nutrition (para. 3.28); and would



- 15 -
collaborate with the Divisions of Health and Education on nutrition and food
education matters within the province.
3.11      Work by the DPI team would result in, among others, improved produc-
tivity of subsistence systems, increased yieLds, diversification of food pro-
duction, and improved soil management. By the end of the project period it is
expected that about 2,000 families would be reached and garden areas would
increase by about 100 ha.
3.12      Cash Cropping ($1.82 million).  This component aims to augment
family incomes by increasing production of cash crops through improving access
to suitable areas ag providing the farmers in these areas with extension,
planting materiaLs - and marketing services; production gains would come from
additional planted area and improved productivity. Specifically, production
would be expanded of temperate vegetables mainly at higher eLevations in the
province (para. 3.13), rubber cultivation around Amanab and coffee and cocoa
production nearer the coast (para. 3.15). The choice of crops for the differ-
ent areas is based on agroclimatic conditions, access to markets and existing
pattern of cropping; in almost all areas income from these crops wouLd repre-
sent the predominant source of cash income. Crops would be grown on clan
land, and the existing pattern of cropping in these areas suggests that
families are abLe to get access to clan lands for commercial cropping pur-
poses. All farmers with access to suitable land and living within reasonable
distance from marketing points, would be encouraged and assisted by DPI to
plant cash crops. The specific individual subcomponents are detailed below.
3.13      (a) Vegetable Production and Marketing ($0.76 million).  This activ-
ity wouLd be implemented by the Food Crops Section with the assistance of the
Marketing Section (para. 3.17), mostly in the folLowing areas: (i) High-
lands. Planted area under vegetabLes would be expanded and infrastructure
improved in the Telefomin and Oksapmin areas to meet increasing demand from
the Ok Tedi mine and the government centers in the district. Under the proj-
ect seven additional extension workers, six for food crops and one for fores-
try, would be recruited to staff six outstations; distribution of planting
material and seed supply would be increased through additionaL nurseries;
existing market houses/cool rooms would be expanded and a new one constructed,
and three small airstrips would be upgraded. Besides promoting production,
the extension staff would support practices that reduce soil erosion and main-
tain soil fertility, such as composting and rotational planting of leguminous
trees to replenish soil nitrogen since little commercial fertilizer is applied
in the area; (ii) Lumi and Vanimo. To meet the rising demand for vegetabLes
in the coastal urban areas and the anticipated demand of the Vanimo logging
project, the project would support initiation of vegetable production and mar-
keting in these two areas. DPI outstation and market houses and cool rooms
would be constructed and nurseries established. Existing DPI staff would
implement this activity, and be responsible for marketing until private groups
could provide the service. Resulting from the project, an additional 300 ha
of vegetables would be planted by about 2000 farmers.
8/   Planting material for cash crops would be distributed free of charge.



- 16 -
3.14      The project would fund buildings and houses, equipment and vehicles,
incremental staff salaries and wages, travel and subsistence aLlowances,
materials and supplies, utilities, vehicle operating costs and produce
purchase funds.
3.15      (b) Tree Crops Development ($1.06 million).  A major thrust of the
project is to expand production and productivity of tree crops in areas with
good road access, and where these crops are already established. The develop-
ment approach is based an keeping the development costs and the farmer's labor
and input requirements minimal - low cost, low technology approach - and
limited use of agro-chemicals. The farmers are likely to plant about 0.1 ha
initially and gradually increase the planted area to 0.5-0.7 ha over a period
of 3-5 years. The projected average size per farmer is higher than present
(0.15-0.3 ha) as it is envisaged that farmers will cultivate Larger plot sizes
as a result of project efforts to improve access to markets and better exten-
sion and follow-up. The project would support the foLlowing two initiatives:
(i) Cocoa and Coffee ($0.79 mill.on): Cocoa plantings would be increased,
existing coffee blocks upgraded and cocoa/coffee marketing improved in the
main cocoa and coffee producing areas of Aitape, Lumi, and Nuku districts.
There has been little change in area or output of these two crops since the
early 1970s. The project would provide farmers witu good quality cocoa plant-
ing material. Existing nursery operations would be improved and new nurseries
established for expanding pLanting material distribution. The farmers would
be advised on site location, planting density, shade requirements, weed and
disease control, and better upkeep, pruning and harvesting techniques. Where
appropriate, growers would be advised to plant cocoa under coconuts in the
existing coconut pLantations. Assistance would be provided in processing
(e.g., supply of coffee pulpers) and marketing; and growers would be
encouraged to form business groups to undertake marketing and processing where
these services are not available. Given the importance of tree crops develop-
ment in the province and with the establishment of a separate food crops unit,
the existing provincial agriculture officer would be redesignated as a tree
crops officer; he would work on a full time basis on tree crops and supervise
field staff associated with tree crops development. Two national staff, a
cocoa nursery officer and a coffee/cocoa extension officer, would be
recruited. Five DPI outstations would be established and two upgraded. These
outstations would have cocoa nurseries for supplying planting material and
facilities for storage. Existing field staff would be relocated to these
stations and camping allowances increased. As a result of these efforts,
about 160 ha of cocoa are expected to be planted by 800 families and about
1,000 existing coffee/cocoa growers assisted in improving present operations;
(ii) Rubber ($0.27 million): Since DPI started its seedling distribution
program in the Imonda, Amanab and Green River areas, farmers' response has
been generally good (para. 2.08). Nurseries are maintained by DPI at three
outstations and tapping of trees at Amanab has just begun. Under the project,
an extension officer and two field staff would be recruited and two new DPI
outstations and storage facilities estabLished. The extension staff would
establish new, and upgrade existing, rubber nurseries for improving and
increasing production of clonal planting material and its distribution to
farmers; also farmers would be advised on siting of rubber trees, planting
density, pest and disease control, rubber tapping and supplied with tapping



- 17 -
tools.91 The project would enable about 100 ha of rubber to be planted by 300
families, and assist about 500 existing producers market their rubber. Rubber
would be marketed as cup lump. Rubber deveLopment would be encouraged in
areas with good road and river access to the processing factory in East
Sepik.2°-  The project would finance civil works, vehicles, nursery
establishment, materials and supplies, processing and other equipment,
incremental staff salaries, travel and subsistence allowance, produce
purchase, and other operating costs.
3.16      Other Agricultural Support Services ($0.65 million).  The project
would strengthen other agricultural support services within the province as
detailed below.
3.17      (a) Cash Crop Marketing ($0.27 million):  An expatriate marketing
specialist (Provincial Economies and Marketing Officer) and a local counter-
part would be recruited to strengthen DPI's marketing organization. They
would provide marketing assistance on both food and tree crops and encourage
establishment of business groups among producers. Wherever commercial
marketing services are unavailable, DPI would provide marketing services. The
Provincial Marketing Officer would oversee DPI's overall marketing operations,
undertake marketing surveys as necessary, establish a suitable marketing
information system and supervise the buying and selling of produce. Roadside
buying would be done by DPI field staff. Backhauling produce on government
vehicles and planes would be utilized by DPI, as far as feasible.
3.18      (b) DPI Pasi Station ($0.14 million):  Many farmers in the province
have difficulty in obtaining reliable supplies of young livestock, such as
goat kids, piglets, chicks, ducklings, goslings, and young cattle. The
project would upgrade the Pasi station to provide young stock by breeding,
although cattle weaners would have to be purchased from outside since the
station lacks the space to support a cattle breeding herd. Livestock and
poultry would be distributed to all interested farmers through the field
extension staff, who would also provide technical assistance for small village
projects. By year 5, about 5,000 ducks and chickens, and 300 pigs, goats and
cattle would be distributed annually. These items will be sold at a cost
sufficient to cover direct production costs (excluding salaries and over-
heads). Poultry and livestock distribution would improve nutrition and
provide a source of cash income.
9/   No charge would be levied for tapping equipment (about K 20/family),
because of lack of adequate cash earning opportunities to pay for these
supplies.
10/  As part of its border development program for 1984-87, the Government has
earmarked about K 3 million for upgrading the Sepik River-Imonda road and
has purchased a barge for plying the Sepik River, to provide social ser-
vices and transportation to people living along the river. In addition,
the factory has a barge which collects rubber from smallholders along the
river. Until cup lump production in West Sepik reaches a large volume it
will be marketed by DPI.



- 18 -
3.19      (c) Field Staff Supervision and Training ($0.13 million):  Funds
would be provided to enable specialist extension staff from national Depart-
ment of Primary Industry and provincial headquarters to visit field staff on a
regular basis. This would allow closer supervision of field staff, more
effective monitoring of DPI projects, and better field training.
3.20      (d) Farm Supplies ($0.11 million):  Because of dispersed and small
population centers, the supply of agricultural inputs is limited in remote
areas. The project would finance the purchase of a range of agricultural in-
puts including tools, impl IT? nts, fencing wire, feedstuffs, which would be
stored and sold (at cost) - through selected DPI district and subdistrict
stations. The supplies would be bulk procured by provincial DPI. The Provin-
cial Marketing Officer would supervise implementation of this subproject.
3.21      For the above agricultural support activities, the project would fi-
nance capital expenditures including civil works (buildings, housing, fencing,
and water supply), equipment, vehicles, and livestock and incremental opera-
tional costs including DPI staff travel and subsistence allowances, wages,
materials and supplies.
3.22      Investment Studies ($0.9 million).  The project would finace the
following studies:  (a) Land-Use Studies T$0.8 million) aimed at establishing
medium to large-scale tree crop development schemes in the province. Three
potential areas would be investigated: (a) the Bewani plain located inland
and linked to Vanimo by a provincial road; (b) the Aitape coastal area linked
to the port of Wewak by a national highway; and (c) the Amanab-Creen River
area which will be linked to the West Sepik river barge after the construction
of the Imonda-Sepik River provincial road (para. 3.15). These three areas
have a potential for tree crops, such as rubber, oil palm, coconut and cocoa,
and have been identified by the Government on the basis of existing maps (at
scale 1/250,000) and preliminary field observations. The studies wouild be
carried out in two phases. Phase I would include the preparation of a pre-
feasibility study of about 20,000 to 25,000 ha gross (at scale 1/50,000) for
each of the Lhree areas to identify basically the land capabilities and land
tenure situation (Ceneology surveys). Depending on the results of Phase I
studies, a full feasibility (pre-investment) study, at scale 1/10,000, would
be undertaken for one of the areas for a smaLlholder/estate type scheme of
about 5,000 ha to be established in a follow-on project. These studies would
be undertaken by the land-use division of the national Department of Primary
Industry and the project would finance vehicles, equipment, survey costs,
incremental salaries and operating costs; and (b) Fishery Resource SurveYs
($0.1 million) aimed at assessing the coastal fishing potential of the
province to develop small-scale artisanal fishing projects. The project would
cover incremental operating costs of the national Department of Primary
Industry's research vessel for survey time in West Sepik, travel costs of
staff for field investigation and project preparation work resulting from the
surveys. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Government would
submit to the Bank for its comments an outline of the scope and cost of the
studies prior to their initiation.
11/ Selling costs would cover DPI's purchase costs.



- 19 -
Infrastructure Development (S2.79 million; 23%) L2/
3.23      Road Upgrading and Rehabilitation ($2.19 million).  Four provincial
roads totalling about 56 km and six district roads totalling 68 km would be
upgraded or rehabilitated under the project (IBRD Map No. 17936). All of
these roads are included in the Provincial Government's road development plan
which is directed at linking population centers with the main government and
trading centers. The project roads are located in areas with potential for
expanding cash crop production. The rural population would thus be offered
improved opportunities to participate in the cash economy and to gain easier
access to government services. In addition, the roads would improve the poli-
tical and administrative integration of the province. These roads would bene-
fit about 362 of the provincial population; Annex 1, Table 3, provides a list
of these roads.
3.24      The provincial roads were identified in 1981 by the Provincial Rural
Transport Study carried out under the Third Highway Project (Ln. 1856/
Cr. 1030-PNG). The district roads were identified by the provincial authori-
ties during project preparation. The major provincial road, located in the
highlands, has been studied in detail by consultants while the other provin-
cial and district roads have been costed on the basis of similar road works
undertaken through the Road Improvement Project (Ln. 2265-PNG). A condition
survey (to prepare detailed scope of works and final costs) for the two roads
(38 km) to be constructed in 1985 is underway and expectd to be completed by
end-1984. The provincial roads would be upgraded to the penetration standard
which corresponds to all-weather village roads with continuous gravel pave-
ments (4.5 m wide) and short span timber bridges and culverts for river and
gully crossings. The upgrading cost of these roads varies between K 20,000
and 40,000/km depending on the topography, and the rehabilitation costs are
about K 10,000 to 15,000/km. The district roads would be upgraded to four-
wheel drive standard which provides seasonal access to individual villages.
These roads comprise a gravel pavement (4.5 = wide) only in sections where it
is required for stability, log bridges and fiords for river crossings and a
minimal number of culverts. The upgrading cost of the district roads would be
about K 10,000/km and their rehabilitation costs about K 5,000/km. The pro-
vincial branch of DWS would be responsible for implementing the road subcompo-
nent by force account, using local hired plant and equipment. It would also
be responsible for constructing (through force account or contract) the build-
ings and houses for all other project components; these works would be con-
structed according to standard designs. To assist the provincial branch of
DWS carry out project activities, a roads engineer and two works supervisors
would be assigned by the national DWS.
3.25      The maintenance of provincial and dlstrict roads is Inadequate
(para. 2.16). The Government has agreed to provide promptly adequate funds
for malntenance of the roads which would be improved and upgraded under the
project. The level of funds will be reviewed and revised periodically to take
into account inflation and other changes In condition and usage of individual
roads. It was also agreed that district roads improved under the project
12/ Details in Working Paper No.2.



- 20 -
would be maintained by LGCs under the overall supervision of DWS. This level
and means of maintenance would ensure the adequacy of the road system, which
is crucial to the proposed development program.
3.26      Other Works ($0.60 million).  The project also includes houses for
additional DWS staff, the upgrading of three airstrips for the Highlands
vegetable subproject, and the construction 'f a wharf at Tipas for landing of
the Sepik River barges.
Health and Nutrition ($0.51 million; 4%)
3.27      The project would improve the quality and coverage of health and
nutrition services (Working Paper No. 3).
3.28      School Nutrition Program ($0.17 million) would focus on improving
diets of high school and community school students: (a) High Schools: Food
farms, including vegetable gardens, poultry and small livestock, would be
established at each of the province's six high schools in order to improve
diets and reduce food procurement expenditures. Farms would be established
and looked after by the staff and students. Funds would be provided for
tools, fencing, sheds, young livestock, seeds and other inputs. Suitable land
is available at three high schools and, for others, will be made available by
the local community. On a per student basis the project expenditures amount
to K 25 per year (recurrent and production costs); at present the schools are
spending about K 150 per year per student on food purchases. The farm output
would reduce these purchases by about 40X thereby generating cash savings for
the schools. (b) Community Schools: Many community school children in the
province are seriously handicapped by poor health and malnutrition. Under the
project, the Community School Agriculture and Nutrition Program developed by
the ongoing East Sepik project, would be introduced into about 38 of the
province's community schools. The program involves teachers, students and
parents in the development of school vegetable gardens (about 1 ha), and
instruction in good nutrition and gardening practices. Prior to start of the
program in a district, selected community school teachers and the district
education officers would attend a training course in East Sepik. Vegetables
from the school garden would be used for a school lunch program. In addition
to improving nutrition, this intervention is expected to spread improved
techniques and seed varieties beyond school gardens to village agriculture,
and to develop in the students an appreciation for better subsistence
practices. The project would finance planting material, cooking utensils,
tools and training costs of teachers. The community and high schools will
implement these programs with assistance of the district education officers,
provincial nutrition specialist, church groups and DPI's Food Crops team and
field staff.
3.29      Training and Supervision of Primary Health Care Workers ($0.34 mil-
lion). This component would aim at improving the quality of primary health
care delivery by: (a) establishing a training school for aid post orderlies
at a church-operated Health Center in Lumi district. Funds would be provided
for the renovation of facilities at the Health Center, purchase of training
materials and supplies, salaries of one additional training staff, and
operating costs. The school would provide both pre-service and in-service



- 21 -
training to about 15 orderlies annually; and (b) recruiting a Health Extension
Officer for six Health Centers to increase the Level and effectiveness of
supervision of aid posts. Funds would be provided to cover the costs of
houses, incremental salaries, travel allowances and other operating costs.
These extension officers will regularly visit aLl aid posts within their area.
Education and Training ($0.94 million; 8%)
3.30      The project would improve the efficiency and coverage of the formal
education system and expand vocational education by supporting the following
activities (Working Paper No. 4).
3.31      Establishment of Central Community Schools ($0.19 million).  Under
the project, eleven selected community schooLs would be expanded, starting in
1987, into Central Community Schools which differ from standard community
schools in having boarding facilities. NationaL Covernment (and consequently
Bank) funding is conditional on satisfactory evaluation of the pilot program
(para. 2.21). The Government has agreed that inclusion of subproject for
financing under the project would be subject to the Bank's approval. Funds
would be provided for the construction of basic boarding facilities and addi-
tional classrooms to accommodate the expected increased enrollment due to
boarders.
3.32      Education Resource Center ($0.32 million).  To improve educational
quality, an in-service training center would be established in Lumi to train
West Sepik teachers. The main function of this center would be to organize
20 one-week courses for teachers each year. The facilities of the center
would also be made available to other line divisions for their in-service
courses. The project would finance staff salaries, materials and supplies,
and the travel costs of about 360 teachers during the life of the project; in
addition, it would finance civil works needed to convert an unused existing
Health Center into the proposed Training Center.
3.33      Lumi High School Boarding Facilities ($0.21 million).  It has become
necessary for the Lumi High School to operate as a boarding school because
more than 84% of its students live over two hours' walk away. The project
would finance construction of boarding facilities, for approximately 200 stu-
dents, based on standard DWS design. Construction would be phased over two
years.
3.34      Vocational Training.  ($0.22 million).  Two vocational centers would
be supported: (a) Telefomin Vocational Center ($0.16 million) would be estab-
lished by a church group to provide training in carpentry, construction and
woodworking skills. Area youth would thus be given an opportunity to benefit
from employment opportunities arising from major resource development projects
in the neighboring province. By 1989, total enrollment would be around 25,
with 20 boarders; and (b) Aitape Vocational Training Institute ($0.06
million). The level of skills training at the successful Aitape Boys' Voca-
tional Center would be upgraded, and opportunity for more trainees to gain
practical knowledge would be increased. The project would upgrade the
existing workshop, provide staff houses and accommodations for 20 trainees.
In addition, a small carpentry unit would be set up -which would build the



- 22 -
desks and chairs necessary for the province's schools. Enrollment is expected
to total 80 by 1989, from 30 presently. For both vocational centers, the
project would finance civil works, materials and supplies, vehicles,
incremental salaries and operating costs.
Lumi District Special Program ($0.20 million; 2%)
3.35      Lumi District is a particularly disadvantaged area in the province
in terms of poverty and nutrition. In addition to the province-wide programs
for food and cash crop development which would benefit the Lumi people, the
project would support specific programs (described below) in the district to
improve the welfare of the people and delivery of government services (Working
Paper No. 5).
3.36      Village Development Center - VDC ($110,000).  A VDC would be estab-
lished at Lumi where meetings and training sessions in agriculture, health,
family planning, adult education, business opportunities and other topics of
interest to the population would be organized with assistance from relevant
divisions. The VDC would undertake: (a) demonstration activities in
gardening, building, animal husbaindry and sanitary waste disposal; (b) short-
term skills and leadership training for villagers; (c) in-service training to
improve the management and delivery of district extension services; and
(d) support for small-scale village-based agricultural projects (e.g., poultry
and fish farms). In addition, the VDC would serve as a general social center
for gatherings, reading, and video/film viewing. The VDC would be established
next to an existing vocational school which would enable staff of the school
to assist in VDC activities. Being a new initiative, the VDC's impact would
be evaluated after three years (para. 3.38). Based on this evaluation, VDCs
could be established in other districts under future projects. The VDC would
be managed by the district program coordinator (para. 3.37). The project
would finance civil works, vehicle and incremental operating costs.
3.37      District Administration Strengthening ($60,000).  In view of the
large number of project activities in the Lumi District, a district coordi-
nator has been reciuited to provide assistance to government implementing
divisions and the district administration. The district coordinator would
work with the district officer, and would supervise and manage the VDC. Fund-
ing of the coordinator's salary and vehicle operating costs from 1985 onward
would be provided under the project.
3.38      Studies:  (a) Malnutrition Research  ($18,000) would investigate the
causes of child malnutrition and be undertaken by staff of the PNC Institute
of Medical Research. Over a period of two years, intensive investigations
would be undertaken on child growth, child feeding habits, nutrient composi-
tion of food, and attitudes about weaning. Subsequently, recommendations
would be made on corrective programs. The project would finance the Insti-
tute's direct operating costs on this research; and (b) Socio-Economic
Monitoring and Evaluation ($17,000). A comprehensive socio-economic survey
is being undertaken in five representative Lumi villages by a team from the
Education Research Unit of the University of PNG. Data are being collected on
subsistence systems, cash incomes, life-styles and attitudes, access to social
services, demography and ethnography, linkage between nutrition and health and



- 23 -
social services, morbidity, and health indicators. The team would periodi-
cally visit these villages to monitor changes resulting from project interven-
tions. Survey work was started in late 1983 and funding from 1985-88 would be
provided under the project and would cover direct costs of the team on this
project work.
Institution Building ($1.27 million; 10%)
3.39      Administrative responsibility for West Sepik was transferred from
the national to the provincial government in 1978. However, the planning,
management and other support staff which carried out these duties at the
national level were not transferred. This has strained the province's upper-
level administrative staff and has led to a deterioration in the province's
ability to effectively plan, implement and monitor provincial development.
The project would upgrade the province's planning, management and accounting
capabilities, support staff development and training (Working Paper No. 6).
3.40      Provincial Planning and Coordination ($0.64 million).  The project
would upgrade the newly created Planning and Coordination Division, within the
Department of West Sepik, by providing four additional staff - a Project Coor-
dinator (PC) and a Monitoring and Evaluation officer (both expatriates) and
two counterpart national staff. The Division would be responsible for coor-
dinating project planning and assisting the provincial line divisions with
implementation; strengthening the provincial planning, management and
reporting systems; establishing a project monitoring and evaluation system
(para. 5.07); assisting the line divisions with preparing sectoral plans, and
reviewing and processing proposals for inclusion in future NPEPs. The moni-
toring and evaluation officer (a rural sociologist) would also provide feed-
back to project management on the sociocultural appropriateness of project
activities (para. 5.06). The project would finance housing, incremental staff
salaries, vehicles and operating costs.
3.41      Finance and Accounting Services ($0.15 million).  The project would
upgrade the provincial Finance and Management Services Division by providing
the services of an expatriate project finance officer and a counterpart
national accountant. The finance officer would be responsible for accounting
of all project expenditures; in addition, he would assist with strengthening
of the provincial accounting and internal control system and the financial
reporting system.
3.42      Provincial Staff Development Unit ($0.48 million).  A Staff
Development Unit, reporting to the Deputy Secretary, would be established to
assess the training needs of departmental staff and organize and implement an
in-service training program. Special attention would be given to the training
of provincial agricultural field staff in collaboration with the national DPI
training unit and training needs of district staff at Lumi. Training would
focus on supervisory and extension techniques, technical matters, financial
control, planning and budgeting, and management reporting. The Unit would be
staffed by an expatriate provincial staff development officer, a counterpart,
and secretarial staff. The project would finance houses, vehicles, equipment,
incremental staff salaries, and operating costs. The Government has agreed
that the Unit would prepare the following reports for submission to the



- 24 -
Provincial Management Team (para. 5.02) and the Bank: (a) a preliminary
report, by December 31, 1985, outlining the training needs and detailing the
first year's training program; and (b) a final report, by December 31, 1988,
evaluating the training program, with recommendations for future programs.
Unappraised Component ($1.30 million; 10%)
3.43      Although appraised components form the bulk of the project, funds
have been set aside for unappraised components, such as: (a) subprojects
(e.g., strengthening of business development activities, expansion of health
and education facilities) linked to the Vanimo logging project, which is
expected to start in 1986; and (b) subprojects (e.g., road upgrading, adaptive
research on subsistence systems (para. 3.09), artisanal fishery development,
nutritional programs in other districts) which are likely to be identified
through project-funded studies. Before these activities are included in the
project, they would have to undergo the National Planning Office's rigorous
review procedures and have to be included in future National Public Expendi-
ture Plans (NPEP). The high quality of the preparation report for this
project is indicative of these requirements. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that before any new subproject costing more than $75,000 is
included in the NPEP for financing under the project, the Bank would review
and approve it.
Less Developed Provinces' Planning Studies ($1.45 million; 12%)
3.44      The project would finance the national government's Less Developed
Provinces' (LDP) Studies Fund through which the NPO assists less developed
provinces to prepare development plans. Preparation of this project and the
two ongoing Bank-financed provincial development projects was funded through
the LDP Fund. A team of specialists, recruited by the NPO in consultation
with the province, would work with the provincial planning staff for a period
of 2-3 years in preparing development plans. As needed, the team would be
supplemented by short-term consultants. Studies are expected to be carried
out for the Western and Gulf Provinces (each costing about $0.4 million) and
five district-level studies in other provinces (each costing about $130,000);
the study for the Western Province is expected to start in late-1984. The
project would finance salaries, travel and operating expenditures for the team
and consultant fees. The Government has agreed to submit to the Bank for its
comment an outline of the scope and cost of the studies prior to their
initiation.
C. Implementation Period and Status
3.45      Project implementation would cover a period of six years, 1984-89.
Timely implementation of project is closely linked to recruitment of staff on
time. Therefore to help ensure prompt start of project, initiating steps for
staff recruitment are underway. All positions have been approved, recruiting
firm for employment of overseas staff has been engaged and first year posi-
tions of local staff are expected to be advertised before March 1985. Key
staff is expected to be selected in early 1985 (para. 5.09), which is the
condition of loan effectiveness. Adequate provision has been made in FY85
budgets for the construction of initial housing stock. Schedules for project



- 25 -
implementation (Annex 1, Table 4 and Chart No. 25944), and staff recruitment
(Annex 1, Table 5) are attached. These schedules were discussed at negotia-
tions and agreement reached that the project would be carried out in accord-
ance with these schedules, and that the Bank would be consulted if the
schedules are substantially revised.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project costs are estimated at about $16.6 million, including
a foreign exchange cost of about $8.4 million or 512. Taxes and duties amount
to about $0.4 million. Base costs refer to July 1984 prices; unit prices for
equipment, materials and supplies, salaries and civil works are based on
standard costs used by NPO and actual costs under similar ongoing projects.
Physical contingencies amount to about 7% of base costs and include 20% on
roads, and 10X on houses, materials and equipment. Price contingencies amount
to 28% of base costs plus physical contingencies, and have been calculated as
follows: (a) 3.5% in 1984, 8% in 1985, 9% in 1986-88 and 7.5% in 1989 for
foreign costs; and (b) 8% in 1984-85, 9% in 1986-88 and 7.5Z in 1989 for local
costs. Project costs by component are summarized in Table 4.1 with detailed
costs in Annex 2, Tables 1 and 2 and Working Paper No. 7.



- 26 -
Table 4.1: PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   as X of
--- (K million) ----          (S million) ---    total
Agriculture                1.7       1.5     3.2      2.1      1.7     3.8      46
Infrastructure             1.0       1.4     2.4      1.1     1.7      2.8      60
Health and nutrition       0.2       0.2     0.4      0.3     0.2      0.5      50
Education and training    0.4        0.4     0.8      0.5     0.4      0.9      45
Lumi special program       0.1       0.1     0.2      0.1     0.1      0.2      51
Institution building       0.6       0.5     1.1      0.7     0.6      1.3      46
Unappraised                0.7       0.4      1.1     0.8     0.5      1.3      36
LDP planning studies       0.4       0.8      1.2     0.4      1.1     1.5      70
Base Costs                 5.1       5.3    10.4      6.0     6.3    12.3       51
Physical
contingencies            0.3       0.5     0.8      0.4     0.5      0.9      60
Price contingencies        1.5       1.3     2.8      1.8     1.6      3.4      46
Total Project
Costs                 6.9       7.1    14.0     8.2      8.4    16.6       51
Front-end fee on            -        0.02    0.02      -      0.02    0.02    100
Bank loan
Total Financing
Required               6.90      7.12   14.02    8.20    8.42   16.62
B. Financing
4.02      The proposed Bank loan of $9.7 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee of about $24,200 would finance 60% of project cost, excluding
taxes. The loan would cover the total foreign exchange requirement of $8.4
million plus local costs equivalent to $1.3 million. Local cost financing is
justified in view of the current financing constraints in PNG and the high
priority attached by Government to the socio-economic development of LDPs.
The remaining $6.9 million would be provided by Government. To help assure
the prompt start of the project, various activities would commence prior to
the project period, including recruitment of key project staff, construction
of houses and procurement of vehicles for such staff; in addition an LDP study
would also start (para. 3.44). To cover such project expenses prior to loan
signing, retroactive financing of up to $400,000 is proposed for eligible
expenditures (salaries, vehicles, operating costs and civil works) after
March 31, 1984.



- 27 -
4.03      All project funds would be allocated under the NPEP for 1984-89 13/
and financed by the National Government out of annual budget appropriations.
Funds would be released on a quarterly basis in accordance with normal bud-
getary procedures. At the close of the quarter, a budget review would be con-
ducted by a team from the national government (para. 5.04), to review expendi-
tures in the prior quarter and authorize release of the next quarter's funds.
C. Procurement
4.04      Procurement arrangements are summarized below and are given in
Annex 2, Table 3.
4.05      Civil Works ($5.7 million).  Project works would be undertaken
mostly by force account. In West Sepik (as in other provinces and for similar
types of projects), the Department of Works and Supply (DWS) undertakes most
civil works including roads, houses and buildings by force account, but using
hired plant wherever possible. Force account is justified since there is
limited local contracting capacity and it is unlikely that contractors from
other provinces, let alone foreign firms, wouLd be attracted in view of the
remote location of the province and the dispersed and small-size of the
program. Only plant hire and small-building contractors are available
locally. All building works range from $30,000 to $100,000, and would be done
by force account if suitable contractors are not available. Most road works
range from $75,000 to $300,000 and would be done by force account.
4.06      Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture ($0.3 million).  These would be
procured using standard government procedures which are considered satisfac-
tory. DWS procures all vehicles for government agencies, maintains and
repairs them and leases them for a fee. Procurement of vehicles, office
supplies, etc., is done under "Period Contracts" which are advertised locally
for services or materials to be supplied regularly over a period of one year,
with options for extensions. Specifications are not written for any one
brand. Given the large number of international companies represented in PNC,
these procedures are efficient and competitive. Under the project, about 10
vehicles, 6 motorcycles and one tractor (total cost about $140,000) would be
procured over five years. Procurement procedures for minor equipment and
furniture are also satisfactory, being based on period contracts, or the three
bid method if goods are not available from government stores; total costs of
these goods are about $160,000 over five years. For plant hire, tenders are
advertised every year and contractors who wish to participate tender their
plant details and hourly rate; based on these rates, a priority number is
awarded to each item and as plant is needed, contractors are given the
opportunity to supply in order of priority. Because civil works and equipment
contracts are expected to be of small size, Bank prior review is not
considered necessary.
13/ The NPEP approved for 1984-87 includes K 7.5 million (constant 1984
prices) for the project.



- 28 -
D. Accounting and Auditing
4.07      Project expenditures would be processed in accordance with regular
government accounting procedures which are sound and consistently applied.
Project accounts would be consolidated on a quarterly basis by the Project
Coordinator (PC) with the assistance of the project finance officer. The
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that: (a) copies of these audited
accounts would be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of the fiscal year; and (b) such audit reports would contain a separate
opinion on the compLiance of expenditures with the purposes of the project,
accuracy of the statement of expenditures, and the procedure and controls used
for preparation of claims.
E. Disbursements
4.08      The Bank loan would be disbursed at the following rates:
(a) 80X for civil works, vehicles, equipment and furniture, technical
assistance and consultant services; and
(b) 60X for incremental operating costs for applications received before
December 31. 1982  40Z for applications before December 31, 1988 and
30% thereafter.-
Bank fylds would be disbursed quarterly on a Statement of Expenditure (SOE)
basis.     The SOEs would be prepared by the PC from the consolidated
quarterly project accounts. Detailed documentation supporting the SOEs would
be retained at the PC's office, and would be made available to the Bank for
inspection during project supervision.
4.09      Retroactive financing of up to $400,000 is proposed to finance
expenditures incurred after March 31, 1984 (para. 4.02). Disbursements are
expected to be completed by December 31, 1990. An estimated disbursement
schedule is given in Annex 2, Table 4. This is based on the disbursement
profile for agricultural projects in PNG; however the disbursement rate is
faster (six  ys disbursement period for the project compared to seven for
the profile) -   taking into account the simplified disbursement procedure,
recruitment of key staff before start of project and experience gained by
appropriate DOF staff in disbursement procedures.
14/  The correspondence of the disbursement categories to Government's
accounting codes is given in Annex 2, Table 3. Operationg costs include,
among others, national salaries, travel, utilities, vehicle hire,
materials and supplies, etc. Amounts withdrawn under SOE are unlikely to
be less than $100,000 per quarter.
15/  Those activities (para. 3.45) which are being done before start of the
project under this project, were implemented in the first year for most
projects in the profile.



- 29 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Implementation Responsibility
5.01      The Department of West Sepik would be the implementing agency for
the entire project except the LDP and investment studies components. The
various project components would be implemented by existing provincial divi-
sions, the provincial branch of DWS, and church groups (Annex 3, Table 1).
The project's implementation arrangements incorporate the national and provin-
cial governments' desire that the project shouLd complement existing provin-
cial programs and should not be implemented at the expense of such programs.
Its management should be integrated into and strengthen the provincial admin-
istrative structure, and its implementation procedures should be consistent
with regular government procedures. With the additional staffing and coordi-
nation assistance provided under the project, and efforts towards staff
development, all divisions are expected to be capable of implementing their
respective components. The LDP studies would be implemented by NPO's Area
Planning Division; the land-use studies and fishery resource surveys would be
undertaken by national Department of Primary Industry's Land-Use Division and
the Fishery Research Division respectively, with assistance from provincial
DPI.
B. Management, Coordination and Reporting
5.02      Provincial Level.  Overall responsibility for project implementation
(excluding studies) would rest with the Secretary of the Department of West
Sepik. Coordination among the implementing divisions would be effected
through the existing Provincial Management Team (PMT) which meets monthly.
The team consists of heads of all provincial divisions and provincial branches
of national departments, and is chaired by the Secretary. With the initiation
of the project, the PMT will also include the PC and the Monitoring and Eval-
uation officer. The PC would be responsible for coordinating and facilitating
the various divisions in implementing the project components, monitoring the
project's progress, assisting divisions in producing progress reports, coord-
inating quarterly reviews, assisting the project finance officer in prepara-
tion of the quarterly financial reports, and day-to-day liaison with national
government departments in matters relating to the project. The PC would
report to the First Assistant Secretary for Planning and Coordination of the
Department of West Sepik. The PMT possesses the requisite authority and
influence to ensure coordination of project work among the various divisions
to be involved.
5.03      National Level.  The existing coordination mechanism at the national
level, established for the ongoing provincial development projects, would also
be used for the proposed projecl  as follows:  (i)  an officer from the Office
of Project Coordination (OPC) _   within the Department of Finance would serve
16/ OPC is mainly responsible for liaising with external agencies with regard
to externally funded projects, including matters relating to disburse-
ments, reporting, etc., and ensuring that implementation of such projects



- 30 -
as Headquarters Project Coordinator (HQPC) for the project. He would render
assistance to the Project Coordinator in matters that are difficult to deal
within the province and to liaise with, and request action from, national
government departments and agencies on his behalf, assist with quarterly
reviews (para. 5.04) and submit loan withdrawal claims. The HQPC would not be
fully occupied on this project as he would have responsibilities for other
projects; (ii) a Headquarters Project Coordinating Committee (HQPCC) would be
established as soon as the project activities start and would serve as the
overall facilitating mechanism at the national level. Members of the HQPCC
would be heads of national7ljepartments involved in the project, including
inter alia DOF, NPO, PSC,- Primary Industry and DWS. The HQPC would be a
nonvoting member of this committee with OPC acting as the committee's
secretariat.
5.04      Progress Review.  In accordance with established government practice
for all NPEP projects, quarterly financial and physical reviews of this proj-
ect would be undertaken jointly by NPO and OPC, to authorize release of funds,
to ensure that funds are being spent in the right manner, and that terms and
conditions laid down by the national government and the Bank are being met by
the implementing agencies. As in the case of the Enga project, the existing
procedures would be strengthened for the purposes of this project as follows:
(a) at the provincial level, the PC would conduct a quarterly review after
which he would submit a report to the PMT and the HQPC; (b) at the national
level, for one of the four quarterly reviews the NPO/OPC would send a
supervision team to the field, consisting of sectoral specialists from NPO,
and technical specialists from national technical departments such as DWS,
Primary Industry, Education and Health. These specialists would undertake a
detailed physical and technical review to assist provincial line divisions in
identifying and solving implementation problems and provide general technical
assistance. The NPO would coordinate field visits and prepare a summary
report for submission to PMT and HQPCC, which would highlight key problems and
solutions. The Government has agreed that the project would be supervised
along the above lines.
5.05      Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring of the project's
physical and financial progress would be conducted on a day-to-day basis by
concerned officers in provincial implementing divisions, under guidance of
their respective divisional heads and with support of the PC. In line with
established government practice, these officers would prepare quarterly
progress reports using the standardized NPEP report format, which would be
reviewed by the PC and National Government's review team (para. 5.04). Based
on these quarterly reports, the PC would prepare quarterly progress reports
for submission to the Bank through OPC. The summary report of the National
Government's review team (para. 5.04) would also be attached to the relevant
quarterly progress report. Agreement was reached on these reporting
requirements.
17/ PSC - Public Services Commission.



- 31 -
5.06      An ongoing review of socio-cultural appropriateness and effective-
ness of project activities, particularly the new initiatives, would be under-
taken by the Monitoring and EvaLuation officer (para. 3.40). The main purpose
of this review would be to make recommendations to project management on
modifications to these activities so that they may be better adapted to the
needs and characteristics of the people, especially women in view of their
important role in subsistence activities. This officer (preferably a woman)
would focus specifically on the response to nutrition programs and new crops,
vocational training, and community school boarding, and would periodically
visit project sites and hold meetings with project participants. In the Lumi
District, she would be assisted by the Education Research Unit team
(para. 3.38).
5.07      The Provincifi,Planning and Coordination Division (para. 3.40), with
assistance from IASER,_   would be responsible for establishing and managing
the project's monitoring and evaluation system which would enable evaluation
of the overall success of the project as well as achievements of each project
component in relation to its objectives and where feasible estimation of
quantified benefits. The planning and coordination division would:
(a) design and implement a data gathering and evaluation system which would
enable satisfactory monitoring and evaluation of project performance; and
(b) complete a baseline survey of the province's agriculture sector including,
inter alia, data on crop yields, cropped area, cultivation practices, marketed
and nonmarketed production. This work would be completed by June 30, 1986;
agreement was reached at negotiatons to this effect. Lack of relifie data on
farming in the project area create a need for the baseLine survey.-   In
recognition of the small size of this project, and to prevent overburdening
provincial staff, the data gathering and evaluation system would be on a
modest scale, focusing on key parameters for the main activities, and relying
to the extent possible on the existing provincial data system. Also, in view
of the nature of the project, a mid-term evaluation would be undertaken at the
end of the first two years to make necessary adjustments in the pE8iect in
light of implementation experience and response of beneficiaries.-    The
planning and coordination division, with assistance from the HQPC, would
prepare the project completion report. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that the Government would submit to the Bank the project completion report
according to Bank guidelines, no later than six months after completion of the
project.
13/  IASER - Institute of Applied Social and Economic Research, an autonomous
government body. It is undertaking similar work for the three ongoing
provincial projects. Funds for IASER's work are included in the
Provincial Planning and Coordination subproject.
191 DPI, Food Crops Team and rASER would assist with this work.
20/ Similar evaluation was conducted for the SHRD project and was found to be
very useful; a mid-term evaluation for the Enga project is underway.



- 32 -
C. Project Staffing
5.08      Over the six-year project period, 21  additional staff (11 profes-
sional, 20 semi-professional and clerical)  -  would be recruited, including
counterpart staff (Annex 1, Table 5); of these, 23 would be nationals, 7
expatriate contract officers and 3 volunteers supplied by volunteer agencies.
Twenty-one staff would occupy permanent positions, continuing after the
project. The shortage, both in the province and in PNG, of trained nationals
with experience in implementing area development projects necessitates
recruitment of expatriates for the PC and other key technical positions. To
enable nationals to take over the permanent positions after the expatriates
leave, qualified national staff would serve as counterparts to the expatriate
staff for a period of about 3 years. The expatriates would train and prepare
the counterparts. Expatriates (excluding volunteers) would be recruited
through international advertisements, and engaged at standard government terms
and conditions for expatriate staff.
5.09      Agreement was reached at negotiations that the terms of reference,
qualifications and experience of the following seven key specialists would be
satisfactory to the Bank: Project Coordinator, Rubber Extension officer, Pro-
vincial Economics and Marketing Officer, Provincial Food Crops Officer,
Project Finance Officer, Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, and Provincial
Staff Development Officer. Project Coordinator has been selected and is
expected to take up his duties by November 30, 1984. To ensure timely imple-
mentation, the condition of loan effectiveness as agreed during negotiations
would be (a) offer of empLoyment to seven persons listed as key specialists
above; and (b) advertised employment notice in the Government gazette for
positions of a cash crops extension officer, a nursery manager and two exten-
sion officers for vegetables.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Several special features of the project have a bearing upon its
evaluation. First, the project is set in an extremely underdeveloped
context - extreme isolation, little systematic settled agriculture and poor
roads, education, and nutrition. Second, the project is multisectoral in
nature - comprising agriculture, health, education, infrastructure and insti-
tutional components. Third, it is designed to be the first phase of a long-
term program of investments; the first in a series of provincial development
projects. Consequently, project justification has to be viewed in a long-term
context and has to accommodate the fact that a sizeable portion of the bene-
fits will be nonquantifiable.
21/ College graduates are classified as professionals, and high school
graduates with technical skills as semi-professionals.



- 33 -
A. Nonquantifiable Benefits
6.02      Important nonquantifiable henefits of the project include:  (a) more
balanced diets resulting from increased consumption of more nutritional food,
including vegetables, fruit, poultry, and livestock; (b) better health and
nutrition from improved delivery of health care services, school lunches and
nutritional education; (c) higher quality, more and better distributed educa-
tion from subprojecLs designed to reduce wastage in formal education, improve
teacher quality, expand enrollment in remote areas and provide vocationaL
training; and (d) improved government services, through the strengthening of
Government's planning, implementation and evaLuation capability. Overall, the
project would accelerate Ehe process of nation building and assist people in
making a transition trom an isolated setting to a more "modern" way of life.
B.  Quantifiable Benf its and Economic Analysis
6.03      Quantifiable benctits - higher family incomes - would result from
the long-term (30-40 years) program to strengthen agricultural support ser-
vices and upgrade roads; the long-term program would comprise a series of pro-
jects which would include. among others, agriculture' and roads components
similar to those in the proposed project which constitutes the beginning of
this program. As a result of this program it is expected that an adequately
staffed and effective extension service would be operating in the entire
province, and that most people would have reasonably good access to support
services and markets because of the upgrading of the road network. These
agricultural and roads development tfforts would increase family incomes
through increased production and diversification of agricultural commodities
(vegetables, rubber, cocoa, coffee, livestock, etc.) as a result of an
increase in planted area, productivity gains and introduction of higher value
food crops and livestock.
6.04      The specific in-pact of the project is difficult to assess for
several reasons. First. some underlying technical coefficients and parameters
of the subsistence system needed to estimate incremental benefits are not
known with suf ticient accuracy. Second, achievement of objectives depends on
many factors such as the accuracy and efficiency of exter.- ion recommendations,
the degree and speed of uptake of recommendations by farmers, which are diffi-
cult to anticipate. Third, there is a lack of sufficient experience in terms
of tarmer response under similar projects dealing with isolated and subsis-
tence societies. Moreover since the project initiates the long-term program,
its impact, particularly on development of subsistence sy -ems, is difficult
to separate from the impact of the long-term progrcm. In view of the above
reaseas. no overall estimates can be made of the project'! effects. Instead,
for indicative purposes, two calculations have been made to supplement _ne
qualitative evaluation of the project.  In the first case (Case A) t'e minimum
increase in familv inLomes (or agricultural output) needed to yield a 10Z
economic rate of return (ERR) for a 30-year program of complementary invest-
ments in agriculture and roads has been estimated, and judged for feasibil-
ity. In the second case (Case B) a conventional rate of return has been
calculated for one agricultural component (the Highlands vegetable subproject)
for which the necessary data were available.



- 34 -
6.05      Economic Analysis:  Case A: Long-term Agricultural and Roads
Program. The key assumptions for evaluating the long-term program are as
follows: (a) Costs of the program include total agricultural and road costs
for the series of projects over 30 years. (i) The agricultural costs in the
first five years amount to K 3.5 million which represent the total costs of
all the agricultural components (including physical contingencies) in the
proposed project. For years 6-30, i.e., success;%e projects, an annual
investment (incorporating capital and recurrent usts) of about K 0.5 million
is assumed which equals the average annual agricultural costs (excluding the
studies component) in the first five years. (ii) Road costs include upgrading
costs for project roads and another 20 km/year of the provincial road/track
network (assumed to be improved over years 5-30), and incremental maintenance
costs for the entire provincial network during the 30 years. The assumed
average annual total expenditures for roads and agriculture, from years 6-30,
amount to about K 1.0 million of which about K 0.4 million represents recur-
rent costs of the proposed project's roads/agricultural component and K 0.6
million capital and recurrent costs of such components in successive projects.
(b) Benefits of the program are the incremental family incomes. Ci) The
present average family income is estimated to be about K 1,200 and is imputed
from value of per capita subsistence production and consumption and assuaiing a
family size of six members. (ii) In arriving at the program's total benefits
(incremental family income of farmers reached) it is assumed that, in line
with expansion of the road and extension network, it will take 30 years to
reach 90% of the families and six years (after first contact by extension
workers) for one family to attain full incremental incohn.
6.06      Through an iterative process it is estimated that for each of the
farmers reached, per family income would need to increase by about llZ (K 130)
to yield a 10 Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the combined agricultural and
roads investment package (Annex 4, Table 1). To obtain incremental agricul-
tural production equivalent to 72 130, a family would need to increase its home
garden area by about 0.05 ha,-   cash -rop (vegetables, coffee, cocoa, or
rubber) area by about 0.15 ha-  and increase meat (poultry, livestock, etc.)
production by 0.5 kg/week. The additional annual workload on the family to
cultivate the incremental cropped area and raise livestock would be about 50
man-days or 12% of available labor (420 man-days). The K 130 increase in
incomes appears quite feasible considering that the additional planting and
labor requirements are modest and take place over 6 years.
6.07      Moreover, sensitivity analysis of the base case (para. 6.06) indi-
cates that the minimum increase required in family incomes is not very sensi-
tive to size of successive projects, i.e., long-term program. Thus, if annual
investments in agriculture and roads were only 50% of the base case
(K 0.5 million) in years 6-30, and as a result only 50% of the base case
population was reached and affected over 30 years, per family income would
need to increase by about 14% to yield a 1OZ ERR on the roads and agriculture
package.
22/ Presently subsistence garden areas per family generally range from 0.2-
1.0 ha; cash crops area, for those farmers cultivating these crops, range
from 0.15-0.3 ha.



- 35 -
6.08      Case B:  Highlands Vegetable Subproject.  This subjproject would
increase family incomes in the Telefomin/Oksapmin area by encouraging farmers
in the area to plant small gardens (about 0.1 ha) of commercial vegetables
for seLling, primarily, to the Ok Tedi mine (para. 6.11). By strengthening
agricuLtural support services and upgrading roads and associated airstrips,
this subproject woul  enable project farmers to have access to markets and
extension services.-   This subproject has an ERR of 16% (Annex 4, Table 2)
under the following set of key assumptions: (a) Investment Costs. These
-include capital and recurrent costs (over 30 years) of activities financed in
Uile Highlands area under the subproject, i.e., road and airstrip upgrading,
agricultural extension services strengthening and improvement of marketing
infrastructure; (b) Participants. Nine hundred farmers (30% of total families
in the area) are presently growing commercial vegetables. As a result of the
project the number of participating families would increase to 3,200 in ten
years (70% of families); (c) Without Project Production is assumed to remain
at 1983 level (675 tons), as expansion is unlikely because of extension,
infrastructure and marketing facility constraints; (d) Technical Parameters.
The assumptions for key technical parameters - average garden area, yieLds,
production costs - are based on estimates of these factors for existing
producers. Thus, average garden size is assumed to be about 0.1 ha per
family, yields are expected to be 7.5 tons/ha for mixed vegetables, and pro-
duction costs are expected to be K 280 per ton. The production costs comprise
cash costs of inputs, harvesting, packaging and transportation to markets;
'e) Farmgate price is assumed to be K 500/ton and equals the current price
paid to existing producers by the mine company; (f) Shadow Wage Rate is
assumed to be K 1/day (40% of stipulated minimum wage) and equals the wages
paid by LGCs to labor for rural works programs.
C. Farm Incomes
6.09      Annual cash incomes for a family are expected to average about K 96
for cocoa producers, K 112 for rubber producers and K 165 for vegetable pro-
ducers; returns per man-day would be about K 4.8 for cocoa, K 3.2 for rubber
and K 4.1 for vegetables (Annex 4, Table 3). These estimates are however very
tentative considering the lack of reliable data. However, considering that
alternative cash earning opportunities (mainly working as a laborer on rural
works program) yield about K 1 per day, the returns from cash crops would be
sufficiently attractive to encourage participation.
D. Agricultural Production and Marketing
6.10      Incremental production at full development (year 30) (based on Cases
A and B) is expected to be about 9,000 tons of home garden produce, 5,700 tons
of vegetables, 3,600 tons of cocoa, 2,200 tons of rubber and 150 tons of
parchment coffee (Annex 4, Table 1). The average yield (kg/ha) is expected to
be about 360 for cocoa (dry bean), 450 for rubber (DRC) and 600 for coffee
(parchment); average yields for smallholders in PNG are about the same as
these yields.
23/ This subproject is representative of other cash crop subprojects in that
the underlying development strategy (support services strengthening and
road upgrading) is the same for all cash crop subprojects.



- 36 -
6.11      Marketing of cash crops would be handled by private buyers or by DPI
in cases where private buyers do not operate. Incremental production of tree
crops in West Sepik would not be significant (in national terms) so that no
marketing problems are anticipated. Moreover, no problems are foreseen in
marketing vegetables because incremental production would be absorbed mainly
by the Ok Tedi mine and the district centers. The highlands area would
increase its market share of Ok Tedi demand from about 50Z at present to about
80% in ten years. Such an increase is feasible considering the proximity of
the market and the fact that project production would replace imports.
E. Fiscal Impact
6.12      After the project period, the annual incremental operating and main-
tenance costs of the project would amount to about K 0.8 million ($1.0 mil-
lion) or 8Z of the provincial government's existing expenditures. Given the
province's limited r N7 nue generation, these funds would be provided by the
National Government.-
6.13      Given the nature of this project and the poverty of the provincial
population, no cost recovery is expected. The national government would bear
the full cost of the project which is of modest scale and well within the
means of the country. However, the project does represent a significant
increase in the National Government's development expenditure for West
Sepik. During the project period, the average yearly project expenditures
would be about K 1.8 million (1984 prices) or less than 0.3% of the national
budget for 1984. This amount translates into an annual per capita expenditure
(capital and recurrent) of about K 16/capita ($19) for the West Sepik
Provinc5    With this transfer, total per capita expenditures in West Sepik
(K 96)' would reach the present average in the country. In the short run,
revenues from the project would be negligible. However, over the long run,
revenues should accrue to both the National and Provincial Governments in form
of sales taxes, export duties, etc., particularly from large-scale
agricultural and forestry ventures and as the market economy expands.
F. Environmental Impact
6.14      The proposed project would have a positive environmental impact.
The agricultural component would contribute to soil conservation and improved
cultivacion practices. The health component would improve health and nutri-
tion in the province.
G. Risks
6.15      There are three main risks associated with this project. The first
involves recruitment of staff, the second concerns the effective coordination
and management of the project, and the third involves the cultural acceptance
24/ In line with current practice, these funds would be allocated through the
NPEP and be part of the second phase project.
25/ Current level is K 80 per capita (para. 2.22).



- 37 -
of project activities. Considering that recruitment has already been initi-
ated well ahead of project start, the recruitment of both local and expatriate
staff could be achieved on time. By the time of loan effectiveness all key
staff would be appointed. These measures should reduce the staffing risk to
an acceptable level.
6.16      The coordination and mavagement risk arises from the broad scope of
the project and the untested performance of the provincial administrative
staff. While the project is modest in terms of funding committed and the
physical volume of work, there are several components to monitor. The project
therefore provides for the strengthening of the Planning and Coordination
Division which is expected to improve management and coordination of the pro-
ject. At the national level (para. 5.03) the Headquarters Project Coordinator
would deal with problems, mostly recruitment and budgetary issues, that cannot
be handled in the province. These arrangements should reduce coordination
risks to a manageable level.
6.17      When new technologies are introduced into a traditional society that
has only recently come into contact with the modern world, it is unavoidable
that modern methods will violate long-standing traditions. Attempts to intro-
duce new farming or dietary practices could be unsuccessful for this reason.
To minimize this risk, local leaders and technocrats have been involved in
designing the project and the proposed changes have been kept modest and
require low levels of skills and technology. Also, project targets have been
set low. Further, the Monitoring and Evaluation Officer would assess, among
other things, implementation, including the socio-cultural implications of
change, and provide feedback to the PMT. This measure is designed to overcome
the risk of introducing inappropriate technology and to ensure that changes
can be introduced during implementation that will enhance the impact of the
development effort.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
7.01      Offer of employment to seven persons listed as key staff, and adver-
tised employment notice in the Government gazette for four national positions
are conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 5.09).
B. Agreements
7.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following principal points:
(a) Government would submit to the Bank for comments an outline of the
scope and cost of the following studies prior to their initiation:
Ci)   investment studies (para. 3.22); and
(ii)   LDP studies (para. 3.44).



- 38 -
(b) It would annually provide adequate maintenance funds for provincial
and district roads improved and upgraded under the project and
maintenance of district roads would be under the overall supervision
of DWS (para. 3.25).
(c) Before the following subprojects are included in project, they would
first be be reviewed and approved by the Bank:
(i)   Central Community Schools Program (para. 3.31); and
(ii)   new subprojects costing more than $75,000 (para. 3.43).
(d) The staff development unit would prepare for submission to the Bank,
a preliminary report by December 31, 1985 and final report by
December 31, 1988 (para. 3.42).
(e) The project would be carried out in accordance with the agreed
implementation and staff recruitment schedules, and the Bank shall
be consulted when changes are made to these schedules (para. 3.45);
(f) Project accounts, including statements of expenditure, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
their audit report submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the end of the fiscal year (para. 4.07);
(g) Progress review would be undertaken quarterly as indicated in
para. 5.04;
(h) The provincial Planning and Coordination Division would complete a
baseline survey and establish a data gathering and evaluation system
by June 30, 1986 (para. 5.07);
vi) The folLowing reports would be prepared and submitted to the Bank.
.i)   quarterly progress report and a summary report of the
National Government's review team as an attachment of the
relevant quarterly progress report (para. 5.05); and
(ii)   project completion report within six months of completion of
the project (para. 5.07); and
(j) Terms of reference, qualifications and experience of seven key
project staff would be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.09).
7.03      With the above assurances and agreements, the proposed project would
be suitable for a $9.7 million Bank loan to the Independent State of Papua New
Guinea for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years at the
standard variable rate.



- 39                              ANNEX 1
Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Provincial Population and Land Distribution
Population /a           Area
District                      Total               (sq km)           CPD /b
Aitape                     19,885                5,014             4.0
Vanimo                     11,064                4,037             2.7
Amanab                     19,336                7,522             2.6
Telefomin                  17,733               11,897             1.5
Lumi                       24,535                5,141             4.8
Nuku                       21,566                2,963             7.3
Total                  114,119 (100%)        36,574             3.1
Rural               107,702 (94X)
Urban                 6,417 (6Z)
,'a  Population based on National Census of 1980.
/b   CPD - Crude Population Density/sq km.



-  a-                                                                         Table 2
*APUA PW CGUIIMA
WEST SEPTI PROVINCIAL DEVEWPDT PRkJECT
Subsistene Symtema in West Sepik
Speeific
Location           Population/a        Main activities              Land tenure syste           Problems and potential           project intervention
Coata1 area. Venimo,         31,000    Sago palm cuttins (by men)  The approach to land own-   Coffee and cocoa cmn be             Coffee and cocoa prod,pc-
Attape dietrtcts              Pfy272    and precessing (entirely       erahip and control uaed to   developed cemercially.          tion end mrketing are to
by women) Is the dominant    be casual but now. because  provided good qualtty             be Improved through ezpan-
eubeistence activity,         of the coxmrctal poten-        planting matrtal and         dad DPI services.  Caner-
Some gardening Is done and   tial of local timber, it        extension services are        cell timber, large-scale
there is a good supply of   baa bcome more conten-           available.  Timber explol-  agriculture, and filhing
bananas. sweet potato and    ttou.  Trin  are general-  tation has been slow               potentilslare to be mtr
taro.  Itnting is indulged   ly ownd individually end    because of land alienatton   died.
in more for social reason    bequeathed to progeny and    problems.
than for procuring food      Sge rights are claimd by
ince gaSe i  scarce.          local clans.
Grub gathering and fishing
are tiportent secondary
activities. Csttle rai_-
inX is gaining interest in
areas around a cattls
fara-cuma-misson at
Sepik River  aSet, and        65,000    Sage cutting and pounding    Ownersbip is gnemrally           Child malnutrition rates      A local road is being ir
middle altitude area;         PP-574    (by men) and washing and         ill defined but uea          are wry high in certain       proved to facilitate rub-
Anamb, Lumi, NJuku di-                   cooking (by wmen) is the    rights are flexible and          area, posibly because of    ber production and mrket-
tricts                                  meot Important subhistene   someties gmbiguou.                the heavy reliance on sago  ing.  Food crop diversifi-
aetivity, followed by the    Carden and trees are            and the low intake of pro-  cation io to be encouraged
cultivation of bananas.       owned by the indiriduals       tdan.  Potential for          through the provision of
taro and ym_  in omall       wvi  plant them; game and       rubber and lowland coffee    aced. gardeoing Instruc-
gardens worked by nuclear    fsab are ovwd by the clan   exists.                           tions and nutritional i_-
families.  In the Lumi        and otbhr  may hunt in                                       formetion.  A special Bal-
area. sago and tulip are      clan tsrritories only by                                      mutrition research project
cultivated rather then        invitacion.  In the Ll                                       focusing on LAt is envie-
gatb-red.  Hunting is an      area. land is genrally                                       aged.
important activity for        owed by a few "original-
men, but thr returns to it   settler" clans.
are low end declining.
Th greatest share of ani-
ml protein in the diet
comwe from the gathering
of sago grubs. wild foul
egse. lizards md insacts.
Fruits are aio gathered
end contribute signifi-
contly to the dist when in
season.
Hlihland areas;               16.000    Croving Seet potatoes.         Individually ownd gardens  Vegetable growing heas be-   The roed and airstrip
Tde-fomIn district            PPFI6l    legme  and vegetables in    appmer to be the norm, al-  come a successful Income-    network Is being improved
gardens of about 0.2 he       though families ofte  elseo  earning actlivty and there  to cover a larger number
per nuclear famly; man        cnmbinw to make larger         is  mach potential for as-    of housebolds and to
clear the bush for the        garden.                        panmion provided the nec-    expand vegetmble produc-
arden and fee  It and                                        esmary infrastructure is      tion.  Soil conservation
women plant it, the entire                                   built,  Solle are genral-   is to be encouraged
process taking anywArs                                       ly of low fertility and       through estbolm
free one tn eli mouths,                                      erosion Is a problem. as-    servlces.
Dlet is supplemnted by                                       pecielly on the steeper
pandeus fruit and emal                                       slopes.
insects end grubs. tradi-
tionally. hunting us an
importent activity. but
the amount of gme now
evailable is too lee to
saLtalo regular huntting;
pigs form the ain aoures
of sisal protein in the
ares, but conaumption Is
sporadlc - linked to
rituals.
la Population data from Cenue of iP9O.
P- Proportlon of Provinital Populatlon.



ANNEX 1
- 41 -                            Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Roads
Population
Roads                   Length    benefited        Commercial agriculture
(km)       ('000)      potential/activity in area
Provincial
Edwaki-Tipas                 12           4                   Coffee
Oksapmin-Tekap               21           8                   Vegetables
Nuku-Seim                    12            6                  Coffee
Yangkok-Laiangam             11            5                  Coffee
District
Aitape-Raihu                  4            2                  Cocoa
Aitape-Yalingi               15           5                   Cocoa
Keibam-Fatima                10            2                  Coffee
Lumi-Karaitem                12           4                   Coffee
Osal-Ossima                  11            3                  Cattle
Amanab-Kamberatoro           16           2                   Rubber
Total                   124          41 (36%)Ja
/a Percentage of total provincial population.



ANN8X I
- 42 -                                          Tabir 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule:  Key Indicators
Y4T2r
Item                                       Unit      1       1         2        3         4         5
A.  INFKASTRUCTIriRE
lioai(es                              No.         I       15A      2         2          -         -
t,'ad%                                km          -       Ii      wD        29         17
SC tuols                             No.          -        I       -         -          S 
Airdtrtir                            No.          -        1       2         -          -         _
WIh.arf                              No.          -        -        I
Eduratiun training c.nters          No.          -        I       _         _          - 
Health training rceiiters            No.          -        -        I
VillAe developmrnt center           No.          -        I       _         _          _         _
hB.  STAPF R8CRU ITlENT
Overseas                             No.          I        6
Volunteer                            No .         -        3        1
N, tIanA I                           Ns.          -       if      I)         2          I
C.  ALRICJLTURAL UEVI:LI.V1l:NT
Nurdettre  and ntit ions
Food crops nurseries               No.          -       2        2         2          2
rree crop nurmrrter                No.         -        3        4         4          2
DPI outstAt Ions                   No.         -        3        4         6          4
lIrkrt atat it.nn/cool rooms       No.         -         I       I         I          -         _
Subaistence Footrop
Farmer. rached /b                  N.          -        -      2Uu       400        60O      8UO
Area planted /c                     ha          -       -       I0        20         30        40
Comrclal Veeta blea
Farmers reached Id                 No.         -      20u      300       40*u       500 So
Area planted                        ha          -      30t      45        60         75        90
Rubber
Farmers resched                    No.         -        -       SO        75         75       IOU
Area planted                        ha         -        -       10        20         30        40
Cocoa
Farwers reached                    No.         -        -      100       2U0        200       300
Area planted                        ha          -       -       10        30         50        70
School GArdens
Commiunity schools                 No.          -       -        5        10         1(        13
High schools                       No.          -       -        1         2          2         1
P.  REPORTS COiPLETED
BasalIne survey                      No.                           I         -                  -
(06/86) e
Initial training report              No.                 I
(12/85)
Final training report                No.       -         -         -         -        -          I
(12/88)
Agriculture Investent Studles:   No.
-  Reconnaisance survey (Phase 1)              -         -         I         '                  -
(06/86)  (06/87)  (U6/88)
-  Detailed survey (Phase II)        No.                 -         -         -         -         I
(U9/89)
-  Flshery resource survey           No.                 -         -         I         _        _
(12187)
LOP *tudies:
-  Provincial                        No.       -         -         -         I
(06/87) (09/88)
-  District                          No.        -                            1         2         2
/a  Seven houses for key project staff would be completed in first half of the year.
T   Farwers who have been distributed seedlings, planting materials and other inputE.
V   New area planted estimated from actual field *islits end volume of seedlings distributed.  In case
of tree crops the size of annual area planted (indicated In table) tslus Into account gradual
bulldup of lndividual farmere planted area from about 0.1 ha to about 0.5 ha over a 3-5 year
period.
/d  In Highlands (Annex *. -able 2) and other districts.
7e  Dates in parenthesi, Indicates expected completion date.



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Incremental Staff and Recruitment
Overseas staff
Overseas (0)/                 Expected          expected    Ongoing (Tenp-T)
National (N)/    Grade        appnt.             period       after  (Per_-P)
Project                                  Designation                Volunteer (V)    level        (mo/yr)            (years)      project
INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING
Planning and Program Coordination    Project Coordinator                           0                CCio       09/84                4           T
Finance Officer (Project Accountant)    0                   CC9       02/85                 3           T
Counterpart Pr. Coordinator                N                 CCS      06185                             P
Monitoring/Evaluation Officer              0                 CC9      02/85                 3           T
(Rural Sociologist)
Counterpart H A E Officer                  N                 CC5      06/85                             P
Staff Development Unit                  Staff Development Officer                  0                 CC9       02/85                3           T
Counterpart Staff Development Officer   N                    CC8      06185                             P
AGRICULTURE
Subsistence Farming                     Provincial Food Crops Officer               0               CC9/RD04  02/85                 4           1
Food Crops Extension Officer               N               CCa/RD03  06/8S                              P
Vegetable Food/Marketing                Rural Development Technicians (4)           N               RDTI       (2)06/85-(2)0b/86                P
Rural Development Officers (2)/a           V                RDOI      06/85                             T
Forestry Extension Agent                   N               CRD3       03/86                             P
Cash Cropping - Coffee and Cocoa        Cash Crop Extension Officer                 N               RDT2       06/85                            T
Nursery Manager                            V               RDOI       06/85                             P
Cash Cropping - Rubber Cultivation   Rubber Extension Officer                      0                RD03       06/85                 3          T
Marketing                               Provincial Economic/Marketing Officer   0                   RDo4/CC9  02/85                  3          T
Counterpart Economic/Marketing Officer  N                  RDo3/CC8  06/85                              P
HEALTH
Training and Supervision of             Health Extension Officers (7)               N               GRDI       (3)03186-(2)03/87                P
Primary Health Care Workers                                                                                    (2)03/88
Tutor Sister/Nurse Trainer                 N                 CC4      06/85                             P
EDUCATION
Luni Education Resource Center          Supervisor                                  N                E07       03/86                            P
Clerk Typist                               N               KB03       03/86                             P
Telefooin Vocational Center             Manager                                     V                E06       06/85                            P
LUMI DISTRICT SPECIAL PROGRAM
Progranne                               Co-ordinator                                N                E06       12/85                            T
Clerk Typist                               N               KBo3       12/85                             T
INFRASTRUCTURE /b                         Senior Engineer                             a                          Ob/85                 3          T
Work Supervisor (2)                        N                          (I)06/85-(1)03/86                 T
/a  Total Staff Number Is five, three are existing.                                                                                                                     in
lb  DWS has agreed to provide staff through transfer from other Projects or Headquarters.                                                                              t\IW



- 44 -                       ANNEX I
lable 5
Page 2
Incremental Staff and Recruitment
Summary
-----Recruitment -------------    Permanent
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   Total    positions
Professional
Overseas                       1      6      -       -      -       7
National                      -       4       -      -      -       4           4
Volunteer                                 -      -                  -
Subtotal                 1      10                     -      11          4
Subprofessional/Technical
National                      -       6       7      2       2     17          14
Volunteer                      -      3       -             -       3           2
Subtotal                 -       9      7       2      2      20         16
Clerical
National                       -      1       1      -      -       2           1
TOTAL                    1      20      8       2      2      33         21



PAPUA NEW  GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVOPHW   PROJECT
Project Cost Sumry
(by component)
Base  costs  (King  'OOO)                    ToUI                   (K1I1M  0                   (III 1003                     K TOtAl
--- 4 -Ttw,                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Furanbi  liw
1994   19      199     I"97    i        19         1     (UiM  '00     Lwal Foriln  lTtal         Local  Forezn  Tr.tal   Excho         Costs
,3222 2822222121 2   2222 2= 221      222222 2t13122222  2222222 S222 :222222 .3SJL22223  3:223= -ZZ322 3Z2232S  S2X232z23   2SSS322
M3IsTErt MIOlTIM                                                5.0   103.2    13.1    74.0    73.9    73.7      413.6      41.3      207.t  206.0    413.6   245.1  W4^.2   466.3               50        4
CFa ClmilZ -   USEtEIU5                       12.5  1If.5   13.1   109.1   127.3   97.2        629.6       743.4     291.2   331.5   629.6    343.7  39.6    743,4             54        6
CO EIi  0cm                                i,3   167.0   124.9   109.    109.7   301.6       619.2      732.3     230.9   IV' 3      1?l 326   399.4    731.215                        6
EAM      REM  ftiTIVAIION                                  -    60.7   49.2    44.2    39.5    41.5       235.3      277,1      112.4  12221    233.3    132.7   345.1    277.6           52        2
WCU§0           S     Et C   - FMS  TOs   SNtGOWES                *            24.2    24.2    24.2    24.2       94.6       21143     72.2    24.6      96.0 3    5.2    29.1    114.3         25         1
tKt SU T SMI4ES - FI3U J                     ttl1N it3's   26.1   26.1   26.1    111.7                                      l1,        55.t   55.9   111.7    65.9   65.9   131.9                50 
III ffCI9ICTN   t                                           203.9    3      200 38.0    38.0    05.9   2330.      276.0     113.5   122.3   233.3    131.7  144.4   276.0             5?         2
P1a1K¶AL &IWatt     IT2AiE3                                       -   300.0   300,0  200.0  200.0   160.0        760.0      397.3   404.4   265.6    760.0    563.7  333.6   397o3               35        7
ICLLTIM.K  UI9    ENIC£5 - PI PAf  STATIO                         -       -    52.7    25.6    20.2    20.2    I1.           40.4      64U.     54,1   fI3.9    76.6    63.6    140 4            45        1
Sub-totul AN6tLTIK                                                23.6   680.3  642.1   51.6  149.   561.0   3,218.9    3,300.3   1.490.7 1,523.2  3.213.9  3.96.1 1304.2  3,300.3                 47       33
C  II"S %                                                         30,0   702.4   66.4   673.4  290,31   11.6   2365.9   2793.3             44.4 1,419.5  24365.9  12117.3 1.676.0  2093.3           60       23
tININ  AN  VW oF PRIMAT W    EAL.h CA   US3S                           75.6    1n.7    72.2    32.5    312       297.4      339.3     123.1 166.2   297,4    143.0   396.2    339.3              so        3
CORItYKMII        MJTITION PICT                                  -    11.3    Is,&    26.1    16.1      6.0      67.0       79.1      41.5    25.5    67.0       49.0   30.1       79.1         33        1 
N9139 O      FOOD P    lic1     ""CT                                      -    22,0    37.0    10.0    10.0       79.0       93.3      5J.3    23.7      79.0      5.3   22.0    93.3            30        1       9
Sub-Total      N AO   T1TON                                          -    67.0    43.3   225.3      86     t.2      433.4      51T.6    219,0   215.4   433.4   257.3   2-4.3   511.6               50        4
CtOM f COIK.I3TV KNIOLS                                           -       -    67.5    32,0    12.0    32.0      163.5      139.0    114.5   49.1    163.5    133.1    57.9    193.0             30        2
LtW! MUOTION ENICES       CENTl                                 3.0   142.5    42.3    41,6    42.3        -     271.5      320.6    136.3   134.6   271.5   1t1.5  159.1    320.6               50        3
LU! 1IO339 KIl  OWalINS FM3LIIII                                       93,0    76;.0            3.3      3.3     175.6      207.3      70.2   305.4    37.        8329    24.4   207.3           60        2
TKWMIN YOCA IOIK  CENTE                                                 2.5    49.5    37.4    41.2     4.5      134.3      15#.3      99.0    4A.3    334.3    303.9    54.4    353.3          34         1
AItAf   WATMtK CEfN                                               -    44.9    10.5           -        -          55.4       65.4      27.7    27.7    55.4       32.7    32.7     65.4          50        1
Sub-Toteal 1UlA4                                                   31.0  279.1  247.3   111,0   113.6   39,0        300.1      944.7     437.2  363.0    6001  516.2   423.5    144.7              45        3
C. LIII1 0I5TAICT SPCIAL PIOM                                      4.5    50.2   46.3    33.6   33.5          -     168.0      19.13      32.9    r.1    168.0       97.9   100.4   192.3           51        2
F. INSIITUTION MIDIK
1In  MS  MO4  COOEDIATIWI AM   UC III                   103.3   173.5  102.9  100.3   95.3    96.2         674.0       795.7    352.1   321.9   674.0  4t5.;   380.0   7Y.7                4a        4
s1,T KWI.MNT  151T                                              6.3   109.6    79.3   76.2    78.2   63.7        415.4      4".4    235.0   130.4    415.4    277.4   213.0    4".4             43         4
1*-ToUl 13NtItITIIU IJILIIKS                                     210.3   203.3  132.2 -73.5   173.5   361.9   1,069.4    2,216.2         57.     501 2.3  1M6. 4    693.1   593.0  3.2162           46       10
SoWW3KP  MIOSCtS                                                     -       -       -   240.0  560.0  300.0   1,100.0   l,m.7           704.0  396.0 I2300.0    331.2  467.5  19M.7                36       it
N. LESS KWWIEJ AS   STILI                                        243.3   24.3   243.3  2431.3   243.3    12.0   1.223.5   1450.4    368          60.9 O.  1P22.5   435.1 11015.3 1I450.4           70       IZ
Total  WfINE COSTS                                                414.7 2,324.4 2,3121.2 2t254.9  ,3.  3,3.42144 2 32A.'3.   5,034. 5,369.  10.404.2 3.944,2 6.339,3 12.211.6                        52       100
Ph?s,eal Cantinwoin                                              23.5   244.2   20042   176.3   103.6    27.7      775.5      215.6     346.5   469.0    7755    361.9  553.7   935.6              60        7
Price CaftitriO                                                  31.4   246.9  434.0   701.2  893.3   590.2  2.77.0  31.3967   1,544.9 l330.3  217730  19326,3 1.570.4  3?316.7                    46       26
Total POECT COSTS                                                 449.7 2,337.4 20765.4 3.334,3 3,334.5 37M5.4  14M05.7   16P595.1  666.2 7,168.5 14,056.7  I.132.5 3.463.4 11.595.6                 51       135
2TS 32*2222 "222322 3*22222 22222*2*2 3282*  2-2222322 S222S2222   41A22*1t vxSZZ:2 CS2-2,3:2  11122=223:22132222223222  323222323 2,1   22
* ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIBast#"SSSS1tX-5S5 SSSSStStss * sss _ S=SS#SS-



PAPUA NEW GUINE
VEST S ^ K PROVINCIAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Project Cost Sumaary
(by category)
Total incl.
Base costs                            Foreign exchange       Cont.
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    Total          2       Aaount  (USS '000)
INVESTMENT COSTS,
Item 1 - Salaries                       68.5   226.2   295.7   388.1   472.4   302.5  1,753.4    60.0   1,052.0   2,694.0
Item 2 - Travel                          5.2    23.3    77.4    75.8    76.6    66.2    324.5    50.0           162.3      504.6
Item 3 - Utilities                       3.0      8.2    13.3    14.8    14.8    14.3         68.4    60.0       41.0      115.6
Item 4 - Materials ani Supplies         14.9    57.3    92.5    99.2    97.4    64.4    425.7    60.0            255.4     711.6
Item S - Vehicle Hire                    4.0    27.7    70.7    72.9    72.9    72.2    320.6    80.0            256.4      546.4
Item 6 - Special Services                4.0    74.2   100.2    98.7    93.7    97.9    468.7    15.0             70.3      726.1
Ite  7 - Capital Assets                  7.8    75.8    56.9    20.7    15.4    15.4    192.0    80.0            153.6      296.5  >
Item 8 - Grants                             -    69.0   155.0   104.4    81.2    42.0    451.6    32.5           146.6     748.7
Item 9 - Other                             -    81.3   113.6   333.2   513.0   327.0  1,368.1    20.0            273.6   2,211.1
Item 10 - Emoluments                       -    37.3    74.9    58.9    73.5    56.8    301.4           0.0        0.0     470.3
Item 11 - Capital Works                 64.0 1,402.8   827.7   741.3   377.8    61.3  3,474.9    60.0   2,084.9   5,706.1
Item 12 - Mlccellaneous La             243.3   243.3   253.3   248.8   248.8    17.5  1,255.0    69.6           873.2   1,864.8
Total Investment Costs            414.7 2,326.4 2,131.2 2,256.8 2,137.6 1,137.4 10,404.2    51.6   5,369.4  16,595.8
Physical contingencies           23.5   244.1   200.2   176.3   103.6    27.7    775.5    60.5           469.0          -
Price contingencies              11.4   246.9   434.0   701.2   893.3   590.2  2,877.0    46.2   1,330.1                -
Total Project Costs               449.7 2,817.4 2,765.4 3,134.3 3,134.5 1,755.4 14,056.7    51.0   7168.5  16,595.8
Foreign exchange               293.8 1,600.5 1,471.0 1,592.0 1,475.5   735.4  7,168.5           0.0        0.0   8,463.9
/a  Mainly Less Developed Areas Studies:  when studies are initiated. costs would be
broken down by ttess 1-11.                                                                                                   i|



ANNEX 2
Table 3
- 47 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arran-   nts
(USS mlllion)
Procurement method
ICB      LCB       Other      N.A.      Total cost
Civil works /b                   -      0.32       5.33/a       -            5.65
-     (0.26)    (4.26F7        -          (4.52)
Vehicles, equipment              -      0.28        -           -            0.28
and furniture /c               -     (0.22)       -           -          (0.22)
Technical assistance and         -       -          -          2.80          2.80
consultant services /d        -        -          -        (2.24)        (2.24)
incremental  e./f               -        -          -          7.86         7.86
operating costs                -       -          -         (2.72)        (2.72)
Total                       -       0.60       5.33       10.66        16.59 /f
-     (0.48)    (4.26)      (4.96)        (9.70)
/a Force account.
tb Corresponds to Item 11 in go8ernment budget.
tc Corresponds to Item 7 in government budget.
/d Corresponds to Items 1 (expatriate salaries only) and 6 of government
budget.
/I  Corresponds to Items I (national staff salaries only), 2, 3, 4, 5, 8. 9,
and 10 of government budget.
Jf Excluding front-end fee.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the Bank
loan, Including front-end fe.



ANNEX 2
- 48 -                               Table 4
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursements Schedule
(USS million)
IBRD FY &                                                       Profile
semester            Semester    Cumulative        Z      PNG /b       Region /c
FY85
Second              0.4/a          0.4         4                         0
FY86
First               0.3            0.7          7          5              2
Second              0.5            1.2        12                         6
FY87
First               0.8            2.0        21          14             11
Second              1.6            3.6        37                         17
FY88
First               0.9            4.5        46          32            24
Second              0.9            5.4        56                        32
FY89
First               0.7            6.1        63          50            40
Second              0.8            6.9        71                        48
FY90
First               0.9            7.8        80          68            57
Second              0.8            8.6        89                        65
FY91
First               1.1            9.7       100          81            72
/a   Includes retroactive financing and front-end fee.
/b   Agricultural Projects in PNG.
/c   Area Development Projects in AEP Region.



ANNEX 3
- 49 -                            Table 1
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Responsibility
Agency                                              Responsibility
National Departments
OPC (Department of Finance)            Project coordination at national
level; staff recruitment; submission
of withdrawal claims.
DWS (provincial branch)                Roads, buildings, houses and civil
works for all components; vehicle
procurement, maintenance and leasing.
Department of Primary Industry
- Land Use Division                    Land use studies.
- Fishery Research Division            Fishery resource surveys.
IASER                                  Assistance with baseline survey, and
evaluation
Department of West Sepik
Division of Planning and               Project coordination, SOE prepara-
Coordination                           tion, provincial planning and
budgeting, assistance to line
divisions, baseline survey and
monitoring and evaluation.
Division of Primary Industry           All agricultural components.
Division of Health                     APO and health supervision component
and assisting with nutrition com-
ponent.
Division of Education                  Formal and vocational education, Lumi
Special Program, School nutrition
program.
Nongovernmental Organizations
Evangelical Church                     Telefomin vocational center.
Christian Mission Church               APO training center.
All church groups                      Assisting with food crops and
nutrition program.



ANNEX 4
50             ~            Table 1
Page 1 of 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits
Long-term Agricultural and Roads Investuent Program
Value of        Incremental costs       Value of
Number of    incremental  Agricul-                       net
Project         beneficiary   benefits /b  tural /c  Roads /d  Total  benefits
year          households /a  - - -----           (000 kina)
1                 200              5       785        878     1,663   -1,658
2                 500             16        654       787     1,441   -1,425
3                 800             35        713       807     1,520   -1,485
4                1,500            68        718       348      1,066     -998
5               2,500            126        595       340       935      -809
6               4,000            217        475       340       815      -598
7               6,000            349        475       360       835      -486
8               8,000            519        475       380        855     -336
9              10,000            728        475       400       875      -147
10              12,000            967       475        420       895        72
11              14,000          1,229       475        440       915       314
12              16,000          1,502       475        460       935       567
13              18,000          1,775       475        480       955       820
14              20,000          2,048       475        500       975    1,073
15              21,500          2,310       475        520       995    1,315
16              23,000          2,560       475        540     1,015    1,545
17              24,500          2,798       475        560     1,035    1,763
18              26,000          3,026       475        580     1.055    1,971
19              27,500          3,242       475        600     1,075    2,167
20              29,000          3,447        475       620     1,095    2,352
21              30,000          3,640        475       640      1,115    2,525
22              31,000          3,822        475       660     1,135    2,687
23              32,000          3,993        475       680     1,155    2,838
24              33,000          4,152        475       700     1,175    2,977
25              34,000          4,300        475       720     1,195    3,105
26              35,000          4,436        475       740     1,215    3,221
27              36,000          4,573        475       760     1,235    3,338
28              37,000          4,709        475       780      1.255    3,454
29              38,000          4,846        475       800     1,275    3.571
30              39,000/e        4,982        475       820      1,295    3,687
ERR - 10%
See footnotes on next page.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
- 51 -                          Page 2 of 3
/a   The number of beneficiary households is calculated from the total number
of households in the province by assuming that roughly 10%, 45%, 85% and
90% of the population of households are brought Into the program by the
5th, 10th, 20th and 30th years, respectively. Total population as well
as the number of households are assumed to grow at 2.5% p.a. over the
period of the program.
/b   The stream of benefits shown here was arrived at via an iterative process
and satisfies two conditions: it produces an ERR of 10% for the program
and it provides full benefits to participants only after six years of
participation. The stream selected implies that a beneficiary household
will have its annual income (or Income equivalent) raised from K 1,200
(without program) to K 1,330 after six years of partUcipation in the
program, an increase of 11%. Note that these benefits are incremental in
the sense of being net of any producers' costs incurred and also being
above and beyond any benefits that might accrue without the program.
/c   The agricultural costs stream is derived as follows:  for the first five
years of the program which coincide with the present project, the costs
represent capital and operating costs under the project; thereafter, it
comprises: (i) about K 250,000, which represents the recurrent costs of
the project's agricultural component, and (ii) K 225,000 which represents
capital and recurrent costs of successive projects and would enable
expansion of the extension and input supply network services to reach
more farmers. Costs in the first five years add to K 3.5 million which
are the baseline costs of the agricultural component (R 3.2 million) plus
physical contingencies of K 0.3 million.
/d Road costs include: Ci) capital costs of project roads and upgrading
costs of another 20 km/year of the provincial roads/track network assumed
to be upgraded from years 5-30; and (ii) incremental maintenance costs of
all upgraded roads. In economic terms, these upgrading costs amount to
average of K 12,000 per km and incremental maintenance amounts to average
of K 640 per km. The costs of project financed airstrips/wharf are also
included in the first four years. Total costs for the first four years
add to K 2.8 million and represent total baseline costs of K 2.4 million
plus physical contingencies of 20% of the infrastructure component.
/e   Based on this number of beneficiaries, and assuming 0.5 ha of tree crops
(for 75% of families), 0.1 ha of commercial vegetables (for 25% of
families), and 0.05 ha of home garden for each family, total incremental
area planted and production (by year 30) is as follows:



ANNEX 4
Table 1
- 52 -                           Page 3 of 3
Total
Area      Average yield       production
(ha)        (ton/ha)            (tons)
House garden and commercial
vegetables                        3,000      4.5 - 7.5             14,700
Tree crops
- Rubber                         5,000      0.45 (drc)             2,230
- Cocoa                         10,000     0.36 (dry bean)        3,600
- Coffee (improved produc-
tivity; present yield
about 0.3 tons/ha)          500     0.3 (incr.)              150



PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs and Benefits of Highlands Vegetable Subproject
District      Number    Total number       Total output    Incremental         Value of         Coat of incre-   Subproject   Value of
Project          popula-    of house-   of producing          of vegeta-          out ut      incremental /f   mental output /f   cost /R   net benefits
year            tion La    holds /b    households /c   bles /d (tons)    (tons) Id    output (K'OOdU               (K 000           (K'000T      (K'OOO)
1              20,063       3,349          1,100               825              150               75                 42             513         -480
2              20,565       3,427          1,400             1,050               375             188                 105            368          -285
3              21,079       3,513          1,700             1,275              600              300                 167            363          -230
4              21,606       3,601          2,000             1,500               825             413                 230            193           -10
5              22,146       3,691          2,300             1,725            1,050              525                 293            143            89
6              22,700       3,783          2,600             1,950             1,275             638                 355            143           140
7              23,267       3,878          2,750             2,063             1,388             694                 387            143           164
8              23,849       3,975          2,900             2,175             1,500             750                 419            143           188
9              24,445       4,074          3,050             2,288             1,613             807                 450            143           214
10              25,056       4,176          3,200             2,400             1,725             863                 481            143           239
11              25,682       4,280          3,350             2,513            1,838              919                 513            143           263
12              26,324       4,387          3,450             2,588            1,913              956                534             143           279
13              26,983       4,497          3,550             2,663            1,988              994                555             143           296
14              27,657       4,610          3,650             2,738            2,063            1,032                 575            143           314
15              28,349       4,725          3,725             2,794            2,119            1,059                 591            143           325
16              29,057       4,843          3,800             2,850            2,175            1,088                 607            143           338
17              29,788       4,964          3,876             2,906            2,231            1,116                622             143           351
18              30,528       5,088          3,925             2,944            2,269            1,135                633             143           359
19              31,292       5,215          3,975             2,981            2,306            1,153                643             143           367
20              32,074       5,364          4,025             3,029            2,349            1,172                 654            143           375
21              32,876       5,479          4,025             3,019            2,394            1,172                 654            143           375
22              33,698       5,616          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
23              34,540       5,757          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
24              35,403       5,901          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
25              36,289       6,048          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
26              37,196       6,199          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
27              38,126       6,354          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
28              39,079       6,513          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
29              40,056       6,676          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
30              41,057       6,893          4,025             3,019            2,344            1,172                 654            143           375
ERR - 162
/n  In 1985 (Year 1), population Is projected to be 20,063 based on 1980 data.  Population is assumed to grow at 2.5: which has been the growth
rate for rural West Sepik over 1971-80.
/b  Average family size assumed to be six persona and to stay constant over the period of analysis.
7Ec In 1984 about 900 households are expected to be growing vegetables. During the first six years of the subproject, the number of beneficiary
households is assumed to Increase by 200 (year 1) and 300 each year subsequently on account of road, airstrip and marketing development;
thereafter, the increment in beneficlaries becomes smaller and smaller until the beneficiary population stabilizes at 4,025 households in
the 20th year of the project. At present each family cultivates about 0.1 ha and bas a yield of about 7.5 ton/ha of mixed vegetables.
/d  In 1985, output is projected to be 675 tons (1983 level) and in assumed to remain constant at this level without project, because of
infrastructure and marketing constraints.
/e  Based on average buying prlce (ex-market) of K 500 per ton paid presently by Ok Tedi mine to growers.
7T Producers' costs of K 279 per ton estimated as follows:
Cultivation and harvesting: labor = K 45.3; cash cost u K 41.4; total - K 86.7.
Transport to market center:  K 3 per 20 kg load; total * K 150.00.
Marketing agency costs: packaging - K 18.94; seed a K 13.36; labor - K 10; total = K 42.30.
/L  These include 1002 of capital and recurrent costs of the Highland Vegetable Subproject, associated road and airstrip costs.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Incomes /a
Average      Ave. farmgcte    Plot size    Ave. manday   Total income    Return per
yield /b         price         per famlly      required      per famlly        manday
kg/ha          K/ton              ha           per ha           K                K
(1)            (2)              (3)            (4)        (1)x(2)x(3)      (1)x(2)t(4)
Cocoa            900             213/e            0.5           40/c             96               4.8
(wet bean)     (wet bean)
Rubber           900             250/e            0.5           70/c            112/k             3.2
(cup lump)     (cup lump)
Mixed
vegetables   7,500             221/f            0.1          400/d            165               4.1
/a   Because of lack of reliable data on yields, plot sizes, and tlme likely to be spent on cash
crops, detailed farm models have not been prepared.  Instead a rough estimate has been made
of likely average annual Income during the production cycle, based on likely average
yields.
lb   Average yield during years 4-20 for cocoa and 6-20 for rubber.
7c   Average nandays required for harvesting, maintenance, and upkeep during production, taking
into account the needs of a low technology productlon system.
id   Average mandays required for land preparatior, planting, harvesting, maintenance from
planting to harvest.
/e   Details in Working Paper No. 1.
Tf   For vegetables the gross Income to farmers is K 500/ton; production, transport and
marketing costs are K 279/ton; net income is K 221/ton. For detall see footnote 'g' In
Annex 4, TabLe 2.
ig   The farmers only costs are his labor.  There are no cash costs for the farmers.  In case of
rubber, the tapping knives, la:ex cups. buckets, etc., (K 20/family) are provided free of
charge under the project.



- 55 -                               ANNEX 5
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project File
Background Reports
1.   West Sepik Provincial Government/            West Sepik Development:
National Planning Office                     Background and Recommenda-
tions
2.   Consultant Study                             Socio-Cultural Aspects of
West Sepik Project
Staff Working Papers
No. 1.   Agriculture
No. 2.    Irfrastructure
No. 3.    Health and Nutrition
No. 4.    Education and Training
No. 5.    Lumi District Special Program
No. 6.    Institutional Development
No. 7.    Detailed Cost Tables.



PARA NEW GIMA
ASI xpmX PPO4PCLJS oMLOP?M ,RO.gCI
PA    &weS wt     Oq *t   sCho
__ ~       ~P Ao                     o 1s.   .. 
x-w
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b -a
*,. a                                           I
n   |0



- 57 -
PAPLI NEW GUINEA
WEST SEPIK PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IupLementation Schedule: Project Components
_lMM @    |            4V wja vb wsum                                    WMaoKa          YEAR FIVE
wvv Acmaiwog fto0wr,    s
I-
5dDUIl~~~~~~~~~Sa S
C
AOCILUUI=
s.*.ou'c. A0XeAum         S
C 
cm" C.cOWg - cee.
cCaca I-0dt,CMM
COCMPG  - rCA_&
C.vNaflae 
G-OqI_ ____
AU kcpa*0 Sinftcm - F.mS*                                                                           b.;daWm  h
Aoo"C sea,                                  -                                    I
C
P#WA_b K%fQW  _UM         cZ                          C s
1Rp * '&4wt0_ P-          F                        510 flh 
S
Ac 5n           - P   Sv   C
RO~~~~~~~~YSt~ ~ ~ ~ ~~= Cow"ONdUGO Wd
~~~~~~S-
I-up.~~~~~~~~~~~
s                               -
FaW. ,o Camueeows G.aumg EA
FDI10IN                                                                                now   cumets. _ e
CmCa.m*Sc.o               C 
m F.man mmawa Cs          S
hSam
S~ -> Stf    ecutn
Cr- Civil W     . In       g            - _
W5s AuI                  aC
S
Note:
S - Staff Recruitsent
Z - Equipoent. Including Vehicle Procurement                                                             wefia7*z
C - Civil Vorka. l ncluding Boume and Road
Conctruction
C     Indicate. Point at which Operating Costs Begin
- lndicate. Period During Uhich Activity (S,Z.C) Taken Place



PAPUA NEW  GUIN4EA                    ! 
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT   I    
. .                  WEST  SEPIK  PROVINCE!
i   '  °e A          ~AgriculIture 
I                                                             I 
I    a                                     --
-;        e.                                                 F
I            BS,,  
!                                                          - .-   . . --,   -
r  [    .                                         +f-    ,4t         :  ...
_~~~~ .        .. .  .  .
!                    -I                                                                ::



r 14i- -                                  -                    ;2-  '1  . - ..- , r -  I    . . . .  Ibh vri  179l
PAPUA  NEW  GUINEA                   -                  I
PROVINCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  4Ir  F                                    _
WEST  SEPIK  PROVINCE                   .Lt-r --
Social Infrastructure and Rood Network                     - ,J
I             IIA                                                   I
}   ('.  -t  *? , | _ __ J h 0,,@ ..    I
i  J 'A   N.~ ;    PA  C'   /   ,,                                         14-,A
0         -~~~~~~~~~~T
@ !*-                                              0  r.u¢u t0  ~ 
!~~~~~~~~~~ .,-    ,' >__   __- r
A   A  A                                 ,
si ~~~I .. .... 
-I !       |   .;  .                                                       A
In-
,,I       L.......r                              ,* ,.~-*
z                                                                    +
z I                                                                     a;. 
_   |      .     .        E   I   F   F   O    M'I  N     I                  -..   .I-
I  '                     -                                     I         I 1.;.   '-.
'~~~                   ~~-  'K-_*--'-, 
. 0 M" I   n
!   -  i-J-.e i
I            .             ,--.           .                              ...
j..            .-         -...-.,/...::
. . ..... -.   C' '  --
1 ~ ~  ~ .-  .- ,~L                                                                   _   -



