E-/9Z
vt. 3
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FROM: Vice President and Secretary
September 16, 1997
BULGARIA
PROPOSED ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES PILOT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
1.    Attached is the Summary Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report for
MDK Pirdop Copper Smelter. The Environmental Liabilities Pilot Project has been
designed to implement measures recommended by the EIA to address historical
environmental problems at the plant.
2.    The EIA has been prepared by consultants on behalf of the company and the
Borrower. According to legal requirements in Bulgaria, the IEA has been reviewed by an
Expert Council, and it has been subjected to broad public review and discussions in the
affected municipalities.
3.    Based on the approval of the Expert Council and public hearings, the Ministry of
Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Bulgaria has issued a resolution
requiring, inter alia, the implementation of Past Environmental Damage Mitigation Plan
described in the EIA.
4.    The EIA, together with the attached Resolution of the Ministry of Environment
and Water Resources of the Republic of Bulgaria, have been reviewed and approved by
the ECA Rural Development and Environment Sector Unit.
5.    Questions may be referred to Mr. Spyros Margetis, Task Manager, ECSIN (ext.
32505) and Mr. Hans-Roland Lindgren, Senior Environmental Specialist, ECSRE (ext.
32505). The full EIA report is available from the Public Information Center.
Attachment
Distribution
Executive Directors and Alternates
Office of the President
Executive Vice Presidents, IFC and MIGA
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC, and MIGA
Directors and Departmental Heads, Bank, IFC, and MIGA



I



ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
OF MDK PIRDOP COPPER SMELTER
NON-TECHNICAL SUMMIARY



4



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION                                                                        3
1.1 UMVI and its environmental know-how                                              3
1.2 Sprecial Environmental Problems of MDI                                           3
1.3 Legal Requirement for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)                      3
1.4 Parallel Environmental Study by the World Bank                                   4
2. PRESENT ENVIRONMENTAL SITUATION OF MDK                                              5
2.1 Site Description                                                                 5
2.2 Introduction to potential pollution factors                                      5
2.2.1 Gas and Dust Emissions                                                      5
2.2.2 Water Emissions                                                             6
2.2.2.1 Drainage Waters                                                         6
2.2.2.2 Process Waste Waters                                                   6
2.2.3 Solid Waste                                                                 6
2.3 Historical Pollution                                                             7
2.3.1 Gas and Dust Emissions                                                      7
2.3.2 Water Emissions                                                             7
2.3.3 Solid Waste                                                                 7
2.3.3.1 The "Blue Lagoon" Slime Pond                                           7
2.3.3.2 Solid slimes                                                            8
2.3.3.3 Siags from the Old Smelter                                             8
2.3.3.4 Slag Tailings frorn the Floatation Unit                                 8
2.3.3.5 Other Contaminated or Polluting Materials                              9
2.4 Pollution from Current Operations                                               10
2.4.1 Gas and Dust Emissions                                                     10
2.4.2 Water Emissions                                                            1 0
2.4.2.1 Drainage Waters                                                        10
2.4.2.2 Process Waste Waters                                                   10
2.4.3 Solid Waste                                                                10
3. PROPOSED SOLUTIONS TO ENVIRONMENTAL PROBLEMS OF MDKII
3.1 Amelioration of Historical Environmental Problems: principles                   I1
3.1.1 Principles for assessing the solutions                                     11
3.1.2 Selecting the Best Solution for the "Blue Lagoon"                          12
3.1.2. I.Pumping Slime/Tailings Mixture to Off-Site Tailings Pond             12
3.1.2.2 Mound Storage of Slime/Clay Mixture                                    13
3.1.2.3 Gold Extraction                                                       13
3.1.2.4 Preferred Solution - Encapsulation of the Blue Lagoon                 14
3.1.3 Solution for Solid Storage Areas                                           16
3. 1.3.1 Temporary Lagoons                                                    16
3.1.3.2 Storage Area Near Old Concentrator                                     16
3.1.3.3 Reinforcement of Residue Storage Area                                 17
3.1.3.4 Burial Site                                                           17



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                                        07/16/97
3.1.3.5 Clean Up of Plant Wastes and Contaminated Soils                          17
3.1.4 Covering and Re-Vegetation of the Slag Heap                                   17
3.1.5 Amelioration of Slag Tailings Pond                                            18
3.1.6 Clean-Up of Other Solid Wastes On-Site                                        18
3.1.7 Covering clay and earth                                                       19
3.1.8 Implementation, Timing and Financing                                          19
3.2 Investment Programme for Current Operations                                       19
3.2.1 Bringing Emissions into Compliance                                           20
3.2.2 Safe Treatment of Effluent Waters                                            21
3.2.3 Future Slag Tailings                                                         21
3.2.3.1 Trucking to Elatzite                                                     21
3.2.3.2 MDK's Proposed Bakadjik Tailings Pond                                    22
3.2.3.3 Preferred Solution - Tailings Storage Adjacent to Plant                  22
3.2.4 Surface Water Control                                                        23
3.2.5 Implementation, Timing and Financing                                         23
4. CONCLUSION                                                                           24



Non-Technical EIA for M\DK Pirdop - DRAFT                 07/16/97
1. INTRODUCTION
This Non-Technical Report was prepared by the Team of Experts conducting
the Environmental Impact Assessment bf MDK Pirdop copper refinery
(MDK).
The report is intended to offer a prelimninary understanding of the
environmental problems related to MDK, including both historical and
current pollution, as well as solutions being proposed. It is therefore a
working document designed to facilitate an open public discussion and the
reaching of an agreement between all parties involved in the solution of
MDK's environmental problems.
1.1 UM and its environmental know-how
Union Miniere (UM), a Belgian-based multinational company and a world
leader in the non-ferrous metals business, has been chosen by the
Privatisation Agency as preferred investor in the privatisation of MDK. With
more than 100 years of experience in the sector, UM possesses known-how
and expertise in reducing the environrnental impact of metal processing
operations according to international standards and in safely depositing
hazardous waste material. UM also has extensive project management
experience in environmental clean-up programs, and is collaborating with the
Bulgarian Ministry of Environrnent and Waters in an approved programme
to clean up historical pollution. Finally, UM intends to take an active role in
helping the Bulgarian authorities to secure financing on attractive terms for
the solving of historical pollution at MDK.
1.2 Special Environmental Problems of MDK
MDK has caused significant air, water and soil pollution both on site and in
the surroundings of the plant. There are a number of critical areas on the
territory of MDK which pose a threat to both the plant and to the local
ecology and community. The historical pollution of MIDK therefore requires
urgent action. At the same time, important investments are needed to bring
emissions and water qualities within Bulgarian and international (European)
standards and ensure the safe disposal of future waste products.
1.3 Legal Requirement for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
The EIA is a legal requirement according to Regulation No. 1 of 7 August 1995
on Environmental Impact Assessment issued by the Ministry of Environmnent
and Waters, the Ministry of Community Development and Construction, the



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                 07/16/97
Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (the
"Regulation").
An independent expert opinion on the scope of the EIA report has already
been submitted to and approved by the Ministry of Environment, as
confirmed in the protocol of a Plenary Meeting at the Ministry of
Environment of 26 June 1997. Presently, a team comprising experts from
Hatch Associates Ltd. (Hatch) and Engineering Services Sofia (ESS) financed
by Union Miniere is in the process of conducting the study and preparing the
EIA report. Hatch, a Canadian metals industry consultant recognised as an
expert environmental auditor by the World Bank, was retained by UM to
conduct its preliminary environmental due diligence on MDK in an earlier
stage of the environmental process. ESS uses Bulgarian experts approved by
the Ministry of Environment and Waters to participate in the EIA.
The final EIA report is to be submiitted by early August 1997, with the public
discussion to take place one month after the submission of this Non-Technical
Report.
1.4 Parallel Environmental Study by the World Bank
The World Bank has recognised the clean-up of MDK historical pollution as a
priority project in Bulgaria, and has agreed to make good efforts to finalise an
agreement with the Bulgarian Government on the provision of a loan to
finance the amelioration project. To this end, the World Bank is conducting
its own parallel assessment of the situation at MDK



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFTI                    07/16/97
2. Present Environmental Situation of MDK
2.1 Site Description
The MDK plant in Pirdop, 85 km east of Sofia, is located on the Sub-Balkan
highway and the Sofia-Burgas railway. The MDK property extends across a
territory of approximately 300 hectares. On the site, as indicated in Figure 1,
are various facilities for the smelting of copper concentrates into anodes and
the refining of anodes into cathodes. Other facilities exist for the refining of
precious metals, the production of sulphuric acid, the processing of waste
waters, and storage. Several non-operational facilities remain on-site in a
state of decay or semi-decay. Also located on MDK territory are various sites
for the disposal of waste produced at MDK, described in more detail below.
2.2 Introduction to potential pollution factors
Figure 2 depicts the operations of a copper smelting and refining facility and
the waste products generated in production, which can be potentially
polluting to the environment if not handled properly. The waste produced in
copper smelting and refining can generally be classified in three categories:
* gas and dust emissions,
* water emissions, and
-  solid waste.
These are discussed in more de.ail below.
2.2.1 Gas and Dust Emissions
Copper smelting and refining activides can be contaminating to the air if not
handled properly. Gas enmssions from copper processing, primarily sulphur
dioxide (502) and dust, are generally cleaned and subsequently processed in
sulphuric acid plant units before being released into the air via a tall stack.
"Unclean" air emissions containing high levels of gas and dust create a health
risk to the vicinity. The settling of dust can also contaminate local soils,
threatening agricultural production and the regional ecology.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                       07/16/97
2.2.2 Water Emissions
2.2.2.1 Drainaze Waters
Rainwater can carry polluting substances located in the buildings, roadways
and open storage areas on the site of a copper smelter and refinery into the
rivers, soil and groundwaters. Therefore, it is standard industry practice to
collect rainwater, as well as any water used for surface cleaning and to treat it
appropriately before discharging it.
2.2.2.2 Process Waste Waters
Process waters containing contaminants are generated in various facilities,
including: the sulphuric acid plants, the copper refinery and the precious
metals refinery. These process waste waters must be treated to remove
dangerous impurities. Waste waters containing pollutants must be carefully
controlled to prevent contamination of groundwater and surrounding soil. In
general, waste waters are first being treated so that their volume is being
reduced and afterwards recycled to the production processes.
2.2.3 Solid Waste
Various solid wastes and residues are produced not only as by-products of
the smelting and refining of concentrates (including "slags" produced by the
smelter and "slag tailings" generated by the floatation plant), but also from
the treatment of gas ("slimes") and waste water. These various products
require different kinds of -processing and disposal to ensure that they do not
cause environmental contamination.



Non-Technical EIA for 1MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                  07/16/97
2.3 Historical Pollution
Numerous environmental studies of historical pollution problems related to
MDK have been conducted, including a previous environmental impact
assessment made by Pehlivanon Engineering Sofia, a preliminary due
diligence assessment made by Hatch and UM, and studies conducted by
PHARE and the World Bank.
These studies consistently indicate a lot of serious historical environmnental
problems caused by MDK.  The location and sources of the various
environmental problems are indicated in Figure 3.
2.3.1 Gas and Dust Emissions
Previous studies reveal that significant gas and dust contamination of the air
surrounding the plant has already occurred. A very irnportant source of the
dust contamination is an uncovered heap of slag tailings, which has released
very fine fayalite dust into the air. Another source is related to inadequate
dust removal and processing of sulphur dioxide of gas emissions released
from the stack.
2.3.2 Water Emissions
Similarly, pollution of the groundwater and regional soil has occurred as a
result of the leakage of contaminated drainage and insufficiently treated
process waste waters which have been discharged into the Pirdopska and
Zlatitsa Rivers (see Figure 4). A further source of groundwater contamination
has been the rainwater dissolution of metals and salts contained in solid waste
materials stored in the open air, the interior and the general vicinity of the
plant.
2.3.3 Solid Waste
2.3.3.1 The "Blute Lagoon" Slime Pond
Thle so-called "Blue Lagoon", a 6- hectare settling pond used to collect
sediments from treated process waters, is located in the southern part of the
MDK site. The sediments are arsenic gypsum slines in a near liquid form.
The Blue Lagoon represents a critical environmental risk, requiring urgent
measures, for the following reasons:
It is practically full with a large volume of residues containing arsenic and
heavy metals. Due to the lack of additional capacity, a major rainfall could
cause an overflow or breaking of the dam, releasing arsenic slimes.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                     07/16/97
The perimeter dam of the lagoon may not be stable. In December 1989, a
major disaster was narrowly avoided by reinforcing the walls of the
lagoon in an emergency effort to prevent the collapse of the walls. As the
lagoon has since been filled with additional slines, further pressure has
been placed on the walls. A recent irispection of the walls revealed that
water already seeps through, carrying arsenic and heavy metals into the
groundwater. A collapse of the dam would be catastrophic by releasing
arsenic and other contaminants into the Topolnitsa Reservoir (see Figure
4), which supplies irrigation waters for an important agricultural area.
. Because of the unavailability of an alternative discard area, the lagoon
nonetheless continues to be filled with further contaminated mateial. If
slime discard were to be stopped, however, the lagoon surface could dry
and cause dust contamination if this is not done in a controlled way.
2.3.3.2 Solid slines
In the past, contamninated solid waste residues (or shimes) were discarded in
several areas on the plant property. The major problem areas requiring
excavation of polluting materials include: the basins of the temporary slime
ponds, a storage area near the old concentrator on the western part of the site
(which contains, among other things, Chelopech concentrates), a residue
storage area near the old plant in the centre of the site, and a burial site
located south-east of the temporary slime ponds (see Figure 3).
2.3.3.3 Slngs from the Old Smelter
A heap of approximately 7 million tonnes of slags produced by the old
smelter is located near the plant just north of Pirdop. The slag heap covers an
area of 30 hectares. As rainwater seeps through the slag, it releases heavy
metal contamination in the surface and groundwater. The heap is also a
major cause for dust pollution.
2.3.3.4 Slag Tailings from the Flontation Unit
The floatation unit of the new smelting facility at MDK produces so-called
fayalite tailings as a by-product. Approximately 2.5 million tonnes of tailings
have up until now been stored in a 10-decare pond without sufficient
precautionary measures to prevent contamination especially when winds are
blowing. Also the tailings pond dam may not be stable. Additional disposal
of fast-drying tailings at other locations inside tie plant has also caused heavy
dust contamination of the neighbouring areas.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                  07/16/97
2.3.3.5 Other Contaminated or Polluting Materials
Besides those already mentioned, the plant has more than a dozen different
kinds of contaminated materials including among others contamninated soils
from various plant operations, concrete, bricks, oil, acid spills, PCB, and
substances containing heavy metals disposed indiscriminately. Many of these
materials require removal in order to not further contaminate the soil and
groundwater.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                       07/16/97
2.4 Pollution from Current Operations
2.4.1 Gas and Dust Emissions
Emissions monitoring at the two stacks (120 and 325 meters high,
respectively) show a clear violation of the environrmental regulations.
Additional gases and dust are currently leaking from the smelter unit, dry
storage areas, dry material handling areas, and road traffic.
2.4.2 Water Emissions
2.4.2.1 Drainage Waters
There are three drainage systems for the collection of surface and plant waters
covering the slag treatment facility, the production units on the western part
of the site, and the old plant located in the eastern part of the site, respectively
(see figure 4). The overall rain and wash water collection system is
inadequate, with large volumes of water by-passing the system completely.
The drainage waters flow into the Pirdopska and the Zlalitsa Rivers without
the benefit of sufficient treatment.
2.4.2.2 Process Waste Waters
The blue lagoon is now practically full and provides only a limited separation
between liquids and solids. Because a complete settling process is therefore
not possible, the quality of the water flowing out of the lagoon is far below
the required standards: these waters are not in compliance with
environmental regulations.
2.4.3 Solid Waste
About 75% of the tailings produced by MDK are being' trucked to disposal
areas outside the plant, but additional measures are necessary to prevent
incremental dust contamination  arising  during  (in  an  insufficiently
uncontrolled way) transport. The remainder is being discarded on the
territory of the plant, again contributing to dust contaminationL



Non-Technical EIA for MIDK Pirdop - DRAFT                 07/16/97
3. Proposed Solutions to Environmental Problems of MDK
3.1 Amelioration of Historical Environmental Problems: principles
3.1.1 Principlesfor assessing the solutions
The environmental problems related to past pollution are enormous. The
team of experts appointed by the Ministry of Environment and Waters, with
the help of UM, has developed a comprehensive plan to tackle the
environmental issues related to past production.  While a number of
alternative solutions have been proposed, the plan being proposed in this
document is believed to be the best available, because it is cost effective, does
not create additional hazards and uses techniques which have already been
applied by UM and Hatch in similar projects in the past.
Some of the alternative proposals involve the creation of a new off-site
discard area. However, in considering any solutions which propose the
removal of waste products to a more remote vicinity, it should be kept in
mind that the pollution problems related to MDK are not a result of the
location of discard areas, but rather in the methods used to secure the discard
areas themselves. It is principallv undesirable, from an environmnental point
of view, to move hazardous waste from an alreadv contamninated area to an
unpolluted area. Moreover, transportation of hazardous waste always adds
some risk for spillage or leakage as well as some incremental cost.
Also, it must be borne in mind that UM, while considering a new waste
storage area, applies the following principles:
1. State of art design and construction of the storage area must be carried
out using materials which give maximum guarantee for avoidance of
spillage.
2. During the utilisation of the storage area, permanent control must be
organised in order to have immediate detection in case of leakage.
3. When the storage area is full, the site must be rehabilitated and re-
vegetated and the initial design is carried out in function of this objective.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                   07/16/97
The plan tackles the key problems on the property of MDK:
* the "Blue Lagoon";
* the solid storage areas;
* the old slag dump;
* the slag tailings pond; and
* the multitude of other polluted materials on the site.
3.1.2 Selecting the Best Solutionfor the "Blue Lagoon"
The environmental hazard of the Blue Lagoon has been known for some time,
and various solutions to ameliorate this problem have been forwarded. Three
previously proposed solutions known to the UM team are:
1. mixing the slimes with the tailings and pumping this slurry to an off-site
tailings pond such as the existing pond at the Chelopech mine, other
underground mine openings at Chelopech, or a proposed new pond at
Bakadjik;
2. mixing the slines with local clay soil and compacting this mixture into a
large mound; or
3. processing the slimes through a cyanide technology to extract gold
content, followed by mixing the slimes with fayalite and pumping the
mixture to a tailings pond at either Chelopech or Bakadjik.
UM does not consider any of these to be optimal solutions and is proposing
an alternative solution that is believed to be more environmentally acceptable,
as well as more cost effective. Hatch's team of experts, drawing on past
experience with similar facilities, has conducted some initial engineering
studies of the situation which support that UM's proposal is the best suited.
The relative pros and cons of the alternative proposals, reflecting the finding
of the team of experts, are discussed in more detail below.
3.1.2.1 Pyinping Slime/Tailings Mixture to Off-Site Tailin,gs Pond
UM and Hatch do not accept the proposal to mix the slimes in the Blue
Lagoon with tailings and pump the mixture to one of the proposed off-site
tailings ponds for the following reasons:
Mixing the arsenic slimes with fayalite tailings produces a solid which
may meet Bulgarian environmental regulations for contaminated soils, but
will not be acceptable under international standards, as international
regulators do not accept solutions that are based on the dilution of
hazardous waste. The diluted arsenic/fayalite mixture may still have



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                   07/16/97
negative long-term effects on downstream surface and groundwater
quality.
. The transportation of the arsenic/fayalite mixture by pipeline adds an
environmental risk of pipe leakage, which could result in spills along the
pipeline route through agricultural areas. The chances of pipe spills is
expected to increase over time, as the pipeline will be rapidly eroded
through the transport of angular, very abrasive fayalite. Therefore, the
pipeline will require frequent replacement, causing additional
construction and disturbance through agricultural land.
*  UM/Hatch principally disagree developing a new tailings pond in virgin
land, such as Bakadjik, if alternative solutions are available that n-iiriiIise
the additional impact upon the environment.
* The capital expense and operating costs for the pipeline and pumping wilI
be high, reducing the amount of money available to solve other
environmental problems.
3.1.2.2 Mound Storage of Slime/ClaWL Mixture
The proposal to midx the slimes with local clay soil and compact the mixture
into a large mound has a number of major drawbacks. In brief:
3 Enormous volumes of clay soil would be needed to soak up the large
volumes of water in the slimes.
* A large outside surface area would have to be set aside for the mixing
process, which would require the installation of a rainwater collection and
treating system for rainy periods and would produce wind erosion during
dry weather.
* This is again a solution based on the dilution of hazardous waste; mixing
the slimes with a large volume of clay would produce, in the end, a much
larger volume of waste.
* The mound would require a cover to prevent rainwater infiltration and
contamination of the groundwater over the long-term.
In short, the clay mound proposal has a number of a.o. logistical
disadvantages, and would require significant additional components in order
to prevent further environmental pollution from the contaminants in the
slimes.
3.1.2.3 Gold Extraction
It has been proposed to dredge out the slimes from the pond and process the
slimes through a cyanide process to extract gold and other precious metals



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                    07/16/97
that are contained in the slimes. This rests on the uncertain assumption that
the income from the recovery of gold and precious metals would pay for the
safe disposal of the remaining arsenic slimes.
This solution presents a number of problems:
* The cyanide gold extraction process will add yet another very dangerous
pollutant to the slimes.
. The cyanide gold processing of gypsum slines is not well proven
technology.
* The cyanide plant operation will increase the risk of contaminating the
outside area.
* A separate slime storage area which contains slime and cyanide traces will
have to be developed.
a The plant to extract the gold and precious metals is likely to be too costly
for the relatively small estimated gold content to generate any appreciable
profit, if any, to provide money for disposal of the slimes.
In short, the gold extraction proposal represents a side project that may not be
feasible, and moreover, does not offer an encompassing solution for how to
deal with the contaminants in the Blue Lagoon so that the environment is not
negatively affected.
3.1.2.4 Preferred Solution - Encapsutlation of the Blze Lagoon
UM's proposal is to leave the slime in place, compress it into a near solid
state, cover the slime with other material, and seal the site with a double liner
to prevent future rain water infiltration. The resulting mound wouId then be
covered with clean earth and vegetated with grass, bushes and trees to
produce a park or sports ground.
The encapsulation solution consists of the following components:
Perimeter Dam Reinforcement. The perimeter will be reinforced as soon
as possible to provide additional comfort with regard to the stability of the
dam for the period until the encapsulation of the Blue Lagoon is
completed. The proposed reinforcement will form the lower portion of
the final re-vegetated mound.
Termination of Slime Disposal in the Blue Lagoon. In a very short time
after UM becomes a full investor in the MDK Plant, it will improve the
process waste water treatment plant and incorporate technologies that
produce smaller volumes of solid "slimes", which will be disposed of on-



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                    07/16/97
site in secured, lined storage containments located cIose to the processing
plant.
. Installation of Drainage Svstem. A perimeter underground drainage
system will be designed and constructed to prevent contamination of the
groundwater during construction and prevent future regional
groundwater from being contaminated by the slimes.
* In-Place Compression of Slimes. The slimes in the Blue Lagoon will be
compressed in-place into a solid mass that will have about half of the
current volume and thickness. This will be executed with proven
technologies that are used to build roads over soft soils and consolidate
very soft slimes and clays. To consolidate the slime, heavy loading will
have to be applied to the surface of the slime by placing solid material on
top of the slime layer. To minimise the need to bring new material to the
plant, it is proposed to use some of the contaminated rnaterials located on
the MDK plant site as the loading material.
* Encapsulation of Lagoon Fill Material. It is proposed to shape the fiIl over
the Blue Lagoon to form a natural looking mound that can be developed
into a park setting. The mound will be covered with double protection
consisting of a plastic liner and a "dry cover" to stop any rain infiltration
into the contaminated materials and slimes. The "dry cover" will have a
thick soil cover that will be re-vegetated with grass, bushes and trees.
The proposed solution offers various environmentally friendly attributes:
- The surface fill will compress the slimes to a dense state that will be
stronger and less -permeable, preventing the contamination of
groundwater.
* The fill placed on the slimes will allow the placement of an adequate cover
over the slimes, making the area safe for animals and recreation.
* The possibility is created to discard a huge amount of contaminated
residues from  the plant and contaminated soils from  the area in a
controlled and safe discard site.
* The plastic liner incorporated into the cover will prevent water infiltration
into the underlying compressed slimes; there will be no leaching of
contaminants into the groundwater.
* There will be no transportation of the slimes containing arsenic and hence
no risk of spillage.
A drawilng of the proposed solution, for wlLich a detailed technical feasibility
is still necessary, can be found in Figure 5.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdoo - DRAFT                     07/16/97
Although minor volumes of groundwater may flow upwards through the
base of the compressed slimes in the Blue Lagoon disposal pond, it is
anticipated that the compressed slimes in the proposal for the Blue Lagoon
will have a very low permeability, and that, as a result, groundwater will not
experience any significant contamination.
Nevertheless, a drainage system for long-term groundwater diversion and
recycling to water treatment has been included in the project design. UNI has
developed considerable know-how and experience in designing and
implementing such drainage systems, for example in its operations in Auby,
France. Pictures XXX and XXX portray the situation in 1988 and the situation
today, respectively. All necessary monitoring will be done in collaboration
with tlhe environmental authorities, as is currently done in Auby.
3.1.3 Solution for Solid Storage Areas
3.1.3.1 Te7npora-n Lagoons
The present treatment of acid plant effluents will be changed (see section 3.2.2
"Safe Treatment of Effluent Waters") so that arsenic slimes, which are presently
allowed to flow into the Blue Lagoon, will be treated using a clarification tank
and high pressure filter presses in the water treatment facility. Using this
process, the waste will be discharged in a compressed solid formr with a much
lower volume. As a result, smaller storage areas can be used in the future.
T-he solids will be stored in secure contaminated landfill containments
encapsulated with plastic l-ners. The containments will be trenches whichI are
serially filled and then covered to limit the amount of exposure at any given
time. The temporary lagoons will be used for this purpose. After the
contaminated materials currently in the lagoons is excavated, the temporary
lagoons will be lined with plastic to make them secure for future storage of
solid waste.
3.7.3.2 Storage Area Near Old Concentrator
The current storage areas near the old concentrator, which contains, among
other discarded solids, Chelopech concentrates with a relatively high arsenic
content, will be examined more closely in order to separate the different kinds
of materials in the area. Following the modernisation of the plant, which will
improve the concentrate blending facility of MDK, the Chelopech
concentrates will be processed by the plant. Waste materials will be
excavated to a secure disposal area.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                      07/16/97
3.1.3.3 Reinforcement of ResiduLe Storage Area
The existing filter residues area is a walled enclosure with an area of about
9600 m2 filled with different kind of residues. The asphalt used as base line is
now cracked and there is groundwater contamination. The rainwater
contaminated by the residues is most likely seeping into the groundwater.
A complete renewal of the base of this residue area is foreseen, as well as the
installation of a plastic liner covered with reinforced concrete slabs to protect
the liner.
3.1.3.4 Burial Site
As with the other contaminated areas on the site, the waste material will be
excavated, replaced with clean soil, and reshaped to become a useful area.
3.1.3.5 Clean Up of Plant Wastes and Contaminated Soils
It is proposed to dispose of all excavated plant wastes and contaminated soils
in a secure encapsulated landfill area to be covered with soil, and finally
vegetated to a park setting. The Blue Lagoon offers an appropriate landfill
opportunity.
In order to compress the arsenic slimes in the Blue Lagoon, as mentioned in
Section 3.1.1.4 Preferred Solution - EncapsuLlation of the Blue Lagoon, a large
volume and heavy weight of materials is needed to be placed on top of the
very soft slimes. Excavated plant wastes and contamninated soils of MDK can
be used to accomplish this. The materials will be placed in the Blue Lagoon
applying techniques used by the oil and gas industry to build access roads
over very soft soils, as well as by the mining industry to consolidate slimes to
increase the disposal capacity of slime ponds.
The use of plant wastes and contaminated soils for the consolidation of the
Blue Lagoon would eliminate the need to import earth loading material, and
provides an opportunity to concentrate the site's contamination at one
location. This concentration of waste materials would also allow financial
resources to focus on a single location to ensure the best environmental
security over the long-term.
3.1.4 Covering and Re-Vegetation of the Slag Heap
The existing slag dump, located just east of the plant, and above Pirdop,
contains about 7 million tons of slags covering an area of about 30 hectares. It
is proposed to rehabilitate this area to eliminate dust problems and seepage of
metal contaminated water.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                    07/16/97
This will involve:
. regrading the heap into a rounded mound to promote water run-off
versus in-filtration;
* covering the heap with an impermeable layer of compacted clay;
e covering with soil; and
a vegetating the surface to blend with the background forests.
The proposed solution to the contaminating slag heap is based on previous
projects conducted by UM involving the covering of rock waste dumps.
3.1.5 Amelioration of Slag Tailings Pond
The slag flotation plant produces about 300,000 tonnes of slag tailings per
year. These have been stored on a large tailing pond (that more looks like a
heap) that has reached its storage capacity. It is proposed to ameliorate this
tailings pond and develop new tailings storage facility. The proposed
amelioration of the tailings pond would consist in:
* reshaping the perimeter dam for re-vegetation and increased long term
stability,
* reshaping and covering the surface to enhance the surface runoff and stop
tlLe dust problem and
* re-vegetating the surface with grass and trees.
The UM solution for future tailings produced by the plant is discussed in
Section 3.2 Investment Programmefor Current Operations.
3.1.6 Clean-Up of Other Solid Wastes On-Site
It is proposed to remove all contaminated wastes presently stored at the plant
and excavate soils contaminated by historical operations with oil, acids,
metals, etc., and encapsulate them in the Blue Lagoon. The wastes will
function as the needed loading material on top of the Blue Lagoon slimes to
compress them into the firm consistency needed to ensure the required
degree of impermeability.
As discussed in Section 3.1.1.4 Preferred Solution - Encapsulation of the Blute
Lagoon, the wastes will be placed on top of the slimes applying techniques
used in Canada by the oil and gas industry to build roads over very soft soils.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                  07/16/97
3.1.7 Covering clay and earth
A considerable amount of clay and earth will be required in order to cover up
the slag tailings, the slag dump and also the blue lagoon. This covering is an
absolute must in order to stop dust contamination and aIso to create the
conditions for renewed vegetation. It is considered that the best place to get
this clay and earth from is to excavate the site adjacent and north of the slag
dump and tailings. This area is most likely very polluted anyway on the
surface and as such unusable by the public. Because of the created elevation
from the coverage and the re-vegetation of the slag tailings and slag dump,
these excavated areas will be nearly invisible from Pirdop and Zlatitsa.
Sufficient drainage would of course be provided. Moreover the excavation of
this area creates an ideal solution for further disposal areas avoiding pollution
and contamination of nearly unspoiled areas (see further section 3.2.3.3
"Preferred solution - Tailings storage adjacent to plant").
3.1.8 Implementation, Timing and Financing
The concepts outlined above have been applied already by UM and Hatch but
there will be necessary adaptations in order to confront the site specific
problems. If the programme is accepted by the Ministry of Environment
following the public discussion of the proposal, detailed engineering and
design can commence immediately. The full prograrnme will take three years
for complete implementation.
Priority will be given to investments which are necessary to reduce the
environment danger related to the Blue Lagoon and which are thus aimed at
putting the Blue Lagoon out of operation. These investments should start
immediately such as: the perimeter dam reinforcement, the improvement of
the present waste water treatment plant (see 3.1.2.4) and the excavation of
temporary lagoons (see 3.1.3.1)
The World Bank, which has sponsored previous studies of the site and
surrounding area, has recognised MDK as a priority for environmental clean-
up investments in Bulgaria. The World Bank is aware of the proposal
submitted by UM and of the ongoing Environmental Impact Assessment, and
will soon commence its own parallel study with regard to the provision of a
loan to the Bulgarian Government, on highly favourable terms, to finance the
clean-up of historical pollution.
3.2 Investment Programme for Current Operations
The overall modernisation plan that UM envisions for MDK focuses on
increasing production capacity, while dramatically reducing negative
repercussions on the environment. The investment plan will stabilise the
operation, raise the capacity of the smelter, construct a new copper refinery,



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                  07/16/97
and bring MDK's gas, water and solid waste emission levels within current
legal regulations.
UM  has already done a considerable amount of work developing a
preliminary concept for ameliorating MDI<'s environmental problems, and is
eager to work with the Privatisation Agency, as well as all relevant ministries,
municipal authorities and regulatory bodies in order to serve the interests of
the population and permit the company to remain operative during the
period of amelioration and transition.
The priorities are:
. bringing air emissions into compliance with Bulgarian as well as
European/international environmental standards;
. introducing cleaner technologies to improve the whole metaIlurgical
process in order to reduce dramatically the impact on the environment;
- introducing modern technologies for waste water treatment and discard of
toxic waste;
* implementing a system for regular environmental monitoring for early
detection of leakage or damage.
The introduction of new technology is central to reducing negative effects of
the plant's operations on the local environment.
Together with the production investments and improvements of the gas
cleaning facilities, very important investments will be dedicated to the
improvement of the environment. The technical improvements and tie
considerable investments in order to make the plant operate in accordance
with environmental regulations will already considerably improve the health
of the workers and the population in the medium term, and will prevent
further pollution of the groundwater, soil and air in the area surrounding
MDK.
Concerning future storage of solids, it is important to recall that three major
principles will be applied:
1. state of the air storage area
2. continuous monitoring
3. recovery and rehabilitation of site after usage
3.2.1 Bringing Emissions into Compliance
One of the top priorities of UM's investment programmne is bringing all of
MDK's metallurgical operations in full compliance with Bulgarian law, as well
as with the highest European or international environmental standards. The
environmental investment programme can be implemented within an



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                     07/16/97
estimated five years. During the implementation of the programme, different
actions will be taken to reduce to the greatest extent possible the present level
of gas and dust emissions.
After this period, both the smelter and the refinery will be in full compliance
with EC regulations concerning gas and dust emissions, water and solid
residues.
Further increases in production capacity will commence after the completion
of all investments for gas capture in the smelting and blending area, gas
cleaning, and sulphuric acid production. Thus, the subsequent increase in
capacity will not cause MDK to exceed emission limits.
In order to comply with the international standards for dust and gas
emissions, the plant will be equipped with two sulphuric acid lines with
double absorption. Modernisation of the gas cleaning section foreseen.
3.2.2 Safe Treatment of Effluent Waters
It is proposed to improve the treatment of effluent water from the acid plant
so that the end product of the new treatment facility will be a filter cake with
good earth consistency.
These solids will be placed in wide plastic-lined trenches that are seriaIly
filled. This so-called "trench disposal method" will be started at the small
temporary lagoons located in the southern portion of the site. First, the small
lagoons will be deepened by a metre. Then the sides will be reshaped and
lined with a high density .polyethylene (plastic) liner. The solid residue will
be placed inside the trench from one end. As a single trench is fiIIed, the
residue will be covered with surface plastic liner followed bv one or more
metres of compacted earth. Once a trench is filled, the contaminated waste
will be completely encapsulated, and the filling of another trench will start. It
is proposed to dig these trenches somewhat east from the blue lagoon.
3.2.3 Future Slag Tailinigs
3.2.3.1 Tntcking to Elatzite
Presently slag tailings from the floatation unit of the smelter are being
discharged into temporary small ponds where they are drained,
subsequently excavated and trucked to the Elatzite mine. This has been done
in uncovered trucks and causes some dust contamnination during transport.
The easiest solution to this pollution is to truck to Elatzite/Benkovsky pond
by covered trucks.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                      07/16/97
3.2.3.2 MD K's Proposed Bakadiik Tailings Pond
MDK has been working on new tailings disposal option for some time. They
have considered the pumping of the slag tailings to an outside impoundment
(Prof. Eng. Emil Marinov, 1995). The areas they have studied are Medet I,
Medet II, and Bakadjik. Of these, the Bakadjik site is being forwarded for
tailings disposal because of cost considerations: the high elevation of the
Medet sites would make the pumping costs prohibitively large.
The Bakadjik site consists of a valley located in an undisturbed meadow and
forest area. Using the Bakadjik site would require the construction of a major
dam to contain the tailings and a 2.5 km pipeline to pump the tailings slurry
to the storage site and return water to the plant.
UM considers this as a second best solution, a position supported by Hatch,
World Bank and EBRD experts, for the following reasons:
* It is very undesirable to locate a slag waste material to a pristine area.
* There is potential for tailings spill in the event of slurry pipeIine ruptures.
- It will be costly to construct the dam because of the valley geometry and
possibly inadequate volume of clay construction material within the
proposed tailings reservoir, which will require rock excavation.
* Pumping costs would be high. Moreover, slurry pipelines would have to
be replaced frequently because of the high corrosion nature of the angular
slag tailings.
MDK has submitted the proposed Bakadjik tailings storage plan to the
Ministry of Environment which has tabled the concept, pending further
studies.
3.2.3.3 Preferred Solution - Tailings Storage Adiacent to Plant
It is the opinion of UM and its consultants that it is preferable to locate future
tailings storage facilities at or adjacent to the plant producing the waste
materials. It is proposed to locate the future tailings pond just north of the
current slag dump and east of the existing tailings ponds. This solution has
compelling environmental benefits:
* It would represent only a minor extension of the plant site, being bounded
on two sides by current MDK facilities (the existing tailings pond and slag
dump).
d The area is already heavily contaminated with arsenic from historic air
emissions, and would therefore not involve the new contamiination of a
"clean" area such as Bakadjik.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                 07/16/97
* The area could serve an additional purpose that fits with the other
amelioration plans for MDK, namely to act as a source of clay for all
proposed land restoration (e.g. Blue Lagoon, slag dump and existing
tailings pond).
• The disposal site would be hidden from Pirdop residents' view by the
existing slag mound.
* The area could later be incorporated into the whole restoration and re-
vegetation prograrnme for the existing slag dump and tailings pond to
produce forest or park land.
3.2.4 Surface Water Control
Run off water after rainfall will be controlled by improving existing drainage
channels and building new drainage channels and directing all surface waters
into collection areas where the waters can be checked for contamnination. If
contamination is found, the waters will be treated.
3.2.5 Implementation, Timing and Financing
Priority will be given to the investments which can substantially reduce the
environrmental problems related to the operations of MDK. Investments
necessary to put the slime pond out of operation will be started immediately:
the new waste water treatment plant and related investments wiII be ordered
immediately after determining the technical parameters.
The implementation of the full environmental investment programine for
eliminating the future operational pollution of MDK can be accomplished
within an estimated time period of five years. After the completion of the
programme, MDK will be operating in full compliance with Bulgarian, as well
as international standards for gas, water and solid waste emission levels.
The financing of the operational investment programme will be done through
capital injections into MDK as well as project financing. Several international
institutions have already indicated their interest in participating witlh UM by
proposing to take an equity stake or by providing loans. The fact that these
reputable institutions will be participating with UM in this huge investment
programme will make the MDK project a landmark project which could serve
as a model in trying to attract other foreign investors to Bulgaria. Thie
involvement of  such institutions is a supplementary guarantee that
operations of MDK will be done properly. Well known cormnercial banks
and export credit agencies from several important countries are also eager to
support UM by proposing loans or guarantees.



Non-Technical EIA for MDK Pirdop - DRAFT                 07/16/97
4. Conclusion
The environmental problem is the key issue for the privatisation of MDK.
UM has the technology, know-how and proven experience to:
. implement comprehensive solutions for the historical pollution which
could substantially reduce the historical liability of the Bulgarian State,
. handle the future operations of MDK according to Bulgarian and
international environmental standards,
The implementation of a plan to clean up the historical pollution is a
condition for the investment of UM in MDK and the investment plan of UM
takes into account all the necessary features in order to produce in compliance
witlh international environmental standards among which a new waste water
treatment plant for removal of potentially harmful waste products.
Th-e solution of the environmental problems related to MDK will, however,
have a much further reaching impact. First of all, the clean-up programme
will address a regional environmental and health issue at the source, and will
therefore have a broad long-term impact on the quality of life for the people
living in the area.
Moreover, the case of MDK could in the future serve as a privatisation model,
as it will set a precedent where national and local authorities work with a
foreign investor and international financial institutions to revitalise an area
co-operatively, with the support of the local population.



Translation from Bulzarian
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
MINISTRY OF ENVIRONiMENT AND WATER RESOURCES
Sofia 1000, 67 W. Gladstone St. fax 810509
RESOLUTION
on Envirorunental Impact Assessment (EIA)
rrS9-19/1997
Pursuant to article 20, clause 4. article 23b and par. 9, clause 2 of the Transitional
and Final Provisions of the Environment Act and article 14, clause 3, item 2 of Ordinance
No I of August 7, 199 for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) I hereby
APPROVE
further operation of MDK-Pirdop by the owner of the company under the following
conditions:
1.    The owner should carrv out following the implementation schedule the
Past Environmental Damage Mitigation Plan and the Compliance with Bulgarian
Envirorunental Regulations Plan, developed in compliance with the Report for EIA
(Section 6) and the supporting technical documentation.
The above plans are an integral part of this resolution.
2.    By December 1997 the owner should submit to the Ministry of
Environment and Water Resources (MEWR) the required documentation for the issuance
of water use permit.
3.    By July 1998 the owner should submit to MEWR the required
documentation for licensing of the activities on hazardous wastes treatment pursuant to
article 8 of Ordinance 15311993 of the Council of Ministers.
4.    The ow%ner should guarantee compliance with the standards for discharge
of industrial waters beyond the water treatment plant as follows:
For the period by the end of the third year:
4.1. Quantity - up to 50 I/sec
4.2. pH - in the range of 6.0-9.0;
4.3. arsenic - up to 1.5 mg/l daily average;
4.4. pH and arsenic in Topolnitsa river at the point after the inflow of the rivers
Pirdopska and Zlatishk-a should comply with the standards for a 3rd category water
intake, including periods of water insufficiency and during the irrigation season. When
necessary, additional water will be provided by Dushantsi dam via the water supply
system of MDK Smelter.
After the third year:
4.5. Quantity - up to 50 I/sec
4.6. pH - in the range of 6.0-9.0;



4.7. arsenic - 0.1 mg/l yearly average; 0.5 mg/I daily average; 1.0 mg/l daily
maximum;
4.8. copper - 0.5 mg/l yearly average; 2.5 mg/l daily average; 3.0 mg/I daily
maximum;
4.9 suspended solids - 80 mg/l yearly average; 400 mg/l daily maximum;
4. 10. lead - 0.5 mg/l yearly average; 2.5 mg/l daily average; 2.5 mg/l daily
maximum;
4.1 1. cadmium - 0.08 mg/l yearly average; 0.4 mg/l daily average; 0.6 mg/I daily
maximum;
4.12. zink - 1.0 mg/l yearly average; 5.0 mg/l daily average; 5.0 mg/I daily
maximum;
4.13 The content of the above elements in Topolnitsa river at the point after the
inflow of the rivers Pirdopska and Zlatishka should comply with the standards for a 3rd
category water intake, including periods of water insufficiency and during the irrigation
season. When necessary, additional water will be provided by Dushantsi dam via the
water supply system of MDK Smelter.
5. The owner should guarantee compliance with temporary standards for dust and
sulfur dioxide emissions as follows;
Emissions from 325 m chimney:
Year        Dust - mg/Nm3             S02 - mg/Nrn3
Firsit             250                      3000
Second             200                     31000
Third              150                      1500
Forth              35                       1000
Fifth              35                       1000
Sixth              20                       800
Emissions from 80 m chimney:
For a four-year period S02 emission - 4 times the maximum admissible emissions
(MAE), of S03 - 1.2 times MAE.
For the period after the fourth year the emissions should comply with MLAE.
6. The owner should guarantee the implementation of the Program for Self-
Monitoring of the Environmental Components as follows:
6.1. Water
6.1. 1. At the outlet of the water treatment plant: 4 single samples at equal intervals
in the day for all criteria under par. 4. For the criterion "undissoved substances" - 2 single
samples daily; for pH - continuous measurement. Measurement of industrial waters (flow
l/s) should be done simultaneously with the sampling.
6.1.2. After Pirdopska and Zlatishka rivers: 2 single samples daily (9:00 a-m- and
14:00 hr. with a step back 30 min. for the days of the week on a cyclic basis).
Measurement of the water flow (flow in l/s) with frequency and time schedule same as for
industrial waters.
6.1.3. At outlet rain channel (before inflow in Sanar Dere) - one single sample
daily according to the criteria under par. 4.



6.1.4. At outlet rain channel (from old facilities) before inflow in Kiselo Dere- one
single sample daily according to the criteria under par. 4.
6.1.5. At outlet concentrating plant channel before inflow in Kiselo Dere- one
single sample daily according to the criteria undcer par. 4.
6.1.6. At outlet water treatment plant channel before inflow in Kiselo Dere- one
single sample daily for pH, BOD and suspended solids
Depending on the monitoring results the sites, criteria and frequency of
measurement should be updated.
6.2. Air
6.2.1. During the first year sampling from the 325 m chimney should be done
once a -week for 24 hours at a 70% load of facilities according to the current regulations.
The average concentration of dust and S02 during this period should not exceed the
emission standards under par. 5.
6.2.2. Measurement of S02 and S03 emissions from a 120 m chimney should be
carried out with the existing system for automatic monitoring. In the first year the weekly
average value (based on daily average values) should not exceed the values under par. 5.
The method of registering of dust and S02 emissions by the automatic equipment
installed in the first year on the 325 m chimney and the existing equipment on the 120 m
chimney will be specified later by the end of 1998.
7. The results of the water and air mlonitoring should be sent to the Regional
Inspectorate of Environment and Water Resources (RIEEWR) in Sofia on a monthly basis.
If the registered data exceed by 10% the standards, the RIEWR should be immediately
notified.
8. By October 15, 1997 the owner should present to the MEWR a program for
self-monitoring of underground water.
9. By the end of 1997 two systems for continuous real time control of air quality
and meteorological data for the region of Zlatitsa-Pirdop should be installed, as well as
show boards in both towns.
The maximum admissible concentration (MAC)of sulfur oxides and dust in the air should
not exceed the levels of 1996 and after the third year should be within the limits of MAC.
10. The owner should coordinate with the MEWR the depots rehabilitation
projects.
11. By the end of 1997 the owner should submit a written agreement or a contact
for the fayalite tailings disposal for the period before commissioning of the new depot
12. The owner should clean on a regular basis the road for fayalite tailings
disposal out of Zlatitsa.
13. For all sub-projects under the Compliance with Bulgarian Environmental
Regulations Plan subject to mandatory EIA, the owner should prepare EIA. reports.
Pursuant to par. 8 of the Environment Act and Ordinance of the Council of
Ministers N 132/31.03.997 the charge is 1,028,566 BGL.



MINISTER:
/signed/
E. Maneva
Date: Sept. 9, 1997



.12-SEP-1997 17:20  FRCMI wORLD l4W RM SOF I iR   To         522794e7   6B  P.05
PEf,YsAmXX sLArApuA
H1CTEPCTBO if   K9 rT CP EZOC            1 BO2EgE
, ~~~~~~~~~~ .4  C                         BO,l4T;
Cw..  1997 z
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . .. . .   ...  a... . . . . .
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...C .m.:.Z;.^........... .....
-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
., IInpuAo*elio Bu u3npau;amse peuieiiue No., A :- 5M.Z<Feo OBOC
iia Muaucmbpa Ha okoxiiama cpega u BogumAe
II4AOXKEHIAE: no   6p.
.
3AM- MIHHIJ4C
t   !                                                 (E. Nu(8)  .
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     -
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !-
! 



12-SEP-19S7  17:21  FRCM UZRLD BRNK RM SOFiR         TO          52-94770SE    P-. 
:  .  
PEIIYF1KA B'ArAP143
*i    *_   _a
MIHI4CTEPCTBO HA OKOAEATA CPEDxA I BOaDTE
i                        COAuq 1 00 yO A "Y.IrAagcmo^i" 67; 4akc 8105 09
PE EIIHE lIE
rio OIEHKA HAik BS3LtEICTB'rr B'LPXY OKOAHATA CPEZ4A (OBOC)
N 59 - 19/1997z.
Ha ocHo8Baue L~.20, aA.4,   23 6 u nap.9, aA.2 om IIP3 aa 3akoHia 3a onra.3aMe
wa oko.aanma cpega u  %. 14, aA 3, m.2 aa Hapeg6a No 1 om 07.08 1995 z. 3a czteiika
'.c3geUcmBuemo Bbpxy okoAHaxna cpega
PA3PEMABAM
*    I  
no-Hnamain-bauiama npou3BogcmBeRa geO.uocm Ba "M,~K - AA,D zp.rlupgo am
co6cL36e1iuka uLgpyiecmBomo npu cAegk-nume yeAo6ua:
1.  a1   u3noA.Bza  u3zomBeeHuyne  C-bZACRO   XOBOC   (pa3gea   6   u
L bUlpQUAylu4tuLLc  UCAYU'vCI...U  yyk4CLLLLL.LL  fl90p&atLZ L  C               &
ekoAeolu-uiumse wemu, npu,uueiu  8 bxuHaAomo' u IlpoapaMa 3a npuSe3kga2e B
cbiom.mcm6ue c RopMamuBHama ypegta ao okomaamaa cpega, cacpeg zpadyuika u
* cpo,CoBcme 3a u3flbABeHue.
Elpoapamume ca Hepa3ge.,iua lacm am nacmomn4emo peuxeHue-
_. 13 cpok go 15 geke.MBpu 1997 2cg. ga npegcrna8u 8 MOCB HeO6xcgutlurne
gokyMe1mu 3a u3gaBaHe ia pa3peu±ume,Ho 3a BogonoA38aae.
3. B cpok go 31 loAu 1998 a. ga SHece 8 MOCB iico6xoguMume goky-memu 3a
*  !ieuupaie aa geoiocmume no mpemnupane iia onacliurne omnag-xu cabz&acua 'IA8
om IIMC 153/1993z.
* t          4. . a zapaHmupa cna3Banemo iaa 1OpMu 3a u3nyck.I  ia npous6ogcmr6eaume
:      Bogu cAeg npeLiuc  ameui;krra ciriafi±u,i, kkikSu c.Cgft.
3a nepuoga go kpasx sa mpemama 2aguHa:
4.1. koAu'ecrnSo - qo 50 IJselc
*.Z. pII - 0 dpiui"%m d.O-9. i
4.3. apceli - go 1,5 mg/l cpeguogeHaoHou.o.
4.4. pH u apces B p. TonoAuuga 8 nyakma c&eg BAuSaiiemo Ha p. 1Iupgoncka u p.
3Aamuulka ga omnzoapam aa iopMume 3a M-ma kamewopua Bogonpuemiuk, Bkux u npu.
MaAoBogue u  HanoumeAiua  ce3oi, kamo  npu  ReodxoguMocm  ce  acuzypsiBam
gonlniume.%au  6ogiHu koAuiecm8a om  A308Up ",ayuaHLLuu  4pc3 npoNuLuc&Iama
BogocRa6gumemia cucme.ra aa M,K
3a nepuoga c&eg mpemama zoguaa:
4.5 koAutecm5o - go 50 V/sek;
4.6 pH - 6 zpaauu,ume 6.0-9.0;
4.7 apcesi - 0.1 mg/I cpegRo20gutUUo; 0.5 mg/ cpegHogeuaoau=o; 1.0 Mgt,
- *       Makcuva&HogeRoHou.jHo;
i



A12-SEP-1S97  17:21  FRrm WORLD BPNK Rm SOFIA       TO         522-94770968  P.e7
4.8 meg - 0.5 mg/l cpegxozoguulml; 25 mgQ cpegaogeHoHauao; 3.0n&q
Maka  Ogel10oHo0Lio;
-        ;-     0Hepa3m8opeHu  Seu;ecmBa  -  80  mg/I  cpegHozogunimo;  400  mgl
*,  -M_ gg eoaouJ o;
. c    OAOBo - 0.5 mgll cpegHozogultuio; 2.5 mg/l cpegHiogeRQEicuacA; 2.5 raga
MakcuMa-igegHoao=Uo;
4.11 kagsuui - 0.08 mg/I cpegioaoguuuo; 0.4 mg/l cpeguogeaoiio=c; 0.6 mgla
MakcuO.eH0oge0noao=o;
4.12 t;uik   LQmginol cpegHo2oguunio; 5.0 mglI cpeg:HogeHomoLLo-; 5.0 mg/I
Ma&kcumNaAogeHoIuwo;
4.13. ogbg1p2kaHuemo aa zop xume eAeveumlu 8 p. Toncouqa 6 nyHkma cAeg
BAuBaiiemo iia p. flupgoncka u p. 3aarnuuika ga omznBapam aa aopmume 3a M-ma
kamezopux 8ogonpuemuk, 8kA. u npu MaAoBoguC u HuflnoureAen ce3QH, kama npu
aeo6xogu.omCn  ce ocu2ypq8am  gonT=Humeuiu  8ogau  koAuwecmBa om  9o30ip
"Xtytuaiuwu" 'pe3 npomuulAeHama BogocHa6guimeaa cucme.a xa MZ~X
5. ,la zapaimupa cnaa3auemo ua BpemeHAu 0optmu Ha emucuune 3a apax u cepca
guokcug, kakmo cAeg5a:
EMUCUU om 325 M koMuH:
POgUHa           FIpax - mg/Nrm3          SQI- mVNm3
.nbpBa           250                      3000
zOO                     3000
mpema             150                     1500
,:        '<emBbpma          35                      1Q00
neraa              3                      1000
;uecma             20                      800
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
!ELMUCUU om 120 .m koMuiI:
3a cpok om  iemupu zoguuu.eMucuRma om cepea guokcug - iemupu n-bmu  E
3a cepeH umpuokcug - 1.2 n-omu I=.
3a nepuoga cAeg %lmM5bpMdlaU±  iUyUkld CMucU.Lc ya .oCLUUO1c.flBlcL   na II,l=.
6. ga zapaHmupa u3flAcHuerao mFlO    Ipo2pa.sra 3a co6cmSea  OhLoRumQpuHz riC
kooMr-i.-Hemmume Ha okoAama cDe3a. kakcmo c\c6;:;
6.1 Bogu:
6.1.1. Ha u3xoy g um npcwnucBu±utrau.La cmahu.x: 4 cgnokpanu npou ita
pa8mu uHm:ep8a,u B gcioaou.;uemo 3a Bcuiku noka3ameAu, nocoqeau 8 rin  4. 3a
nokaaamez% "RepasmBopemu Beu.:ecmBa' - 2 eguokpamnau npnio&i gleBHo; 3a noka3amleA
pH - Henpek-bcHamo u3mepBaHe. Egno8pemeRuo c BaemaiHe Ha npo6ume ga ce u3mepsa
koAuwiecmomrc sa npou38ogcmBeaume Bogu (ge6um I/s).
6.1.2. CAeg cAuSaaemo Ha p. Ilupgonckal u p. 3Aamuu.1ka: 2 egHokpainmu nppo6u Ha
gew (9.00 -j. u 14.00 q. cbc cm-bna,o8ugaomo uMLA u3Mecm8atie Ha3ag B6b BpeMemno c 30
mu.. Bceku gei om cegmut;ama uulukAuno). l43mepBaHe Ha BogHormo koAuqecrnBc
(ge6urn B Vs) . c ecmomna u epactuk 8B-B BpeMemo, kakmo npu apoGurmle
*      npou38ogqcmBetlu Bogu.
6.1.3. Ha u3xog g-icgoBea kamaA (npegu 3aycm5ame B Ca:ambp gepe) - egHa
egHokpanuia npo6a B-gea no noka3ameAume B m.4.
6.1.4 Pra tiwno a .nRei k^z  (com cmapu mou.mcwzu) npeau -3 ycLm8aw  R
KuccAo gcpc - egua egolokpazmml; npo6. 6 geii no noka3amineAume 8 m. 4.
6.1.5. Ha uaxog kaxaA om o6ozamumeAiama 4a6puka, npegu 3aycmEuakie 6
KuceCAo gepe - egia egHokpamHa npo6a B gee no noka3arneAume B n.4.
6.1.6. Ha u3xog om npewucm8ameAnama cmaL4UR 3a 6umoBo4ekaAiu Bogu -
egHa egHokpamHa npo6a 8 geH no noka3ameAume - pH, EIIKS u Repa3mBopei4u
*.      6eu,BcmBa.
i ~2



012-SEP-19S7  17:22  FRCM  uCRLD BANK RM SCFIP        TC          522-94770968  P.08
fB =ucumocm   om   De3VAmamume  om   MOHUMoDuf2   nvRkmogerne-
U0 41oumMUMe U 'iecMomama ua u3Mepfatue nogAe*kam aa akmyaAu3atusa.
. *. ,rBb~3gyx:
,  .  _Il  pe3 n-bp6ama zoguHa npo6oHaGupaHemo cm 325 M koMuH ga ce u3BbpLu5a
i  eyu       y.usuu    p upuy;iutiue ku± Z4 ut.a zipu ti;uu64p&u±c ,  MUUlurmni
Hag 70 % &bZ-Aacio' gell Baugama HopMamuBlia ypeg6a. Cpegnume kawixeHmpat,uu iia
npax u cepeH guokcug npe3 M03U nepuog ga He npeBuwaBam emucuourne aopMu,
nocoienu 8 m.5.
6.2.2 I43.Mrepa6iemo Ha e.Mucuume Ha cepeHi guokcug u cepeci mpuokcug cm 120 m
kouiuH ga cmaBa c ia.unRama cucmema 3a a6momamuieN Mowumopunz, kamo upe3
;  n-oama  aocuiia c,ecHaceQ.vu'nama cmoflaocm (Ha 6a3a cpegHoqkeEIau cmoQHocmu)
ga aie npeBuua6Ba nocoieHume cmoriHocmu 8 m.5.
Ha4uabm  kia om1iuma2ic Ha eMucuurme  am  npax  u cepea guokcug  am
a8moNsamuruiume npu6opu, moHinupaHu npe3 n-mp8ama zoguHa Ha 325 mv kOMUl U
HaAu'iume Ha 120 m koMuH, uze cc y;no'Hm gonTHumemao luafl-kbcbo  go kpasr wa
1998 Z.
7. Pe3y,=namume om MoHumopuwza no Bogu U Bb3gyx ga cc u3npauxam 6 P1OCB
Co4ua eakccc'no- Ilpu pczucmpupauc Ha npeguuSaiie ua iiopmume c a:ag 10%
we3af6aBiio ga yBegQmrBa P140CB Co9uA.
8. B cpok go 15 okxmoM6pu 1997 zog. ga npegcma8u 8 MOCB npozpama 3a
coocmBeH moiiumopuHz Ha nog3eCMume Bogu.
9. go kpaA aa 1997 a. ga ce MOHmupam gBe cucmef?Nu 3a Hienpekbcuaa  kaHmpoA
Ha kaiecmBoomo Ha am%.MaoccepHuR Sb39yx u memeogaHHume B peat.Ho Op&Me a parloua
H a 3zAamuu,a - IIupgon u noka3Sauqu ma6Aa 8 gBama zpaga.
fIpegero-gonycmuMume kcH1teHmpat;uu (IT,K) Ha cepHume okucu u npax 3
amMoccbepuusl 8b3gyX ga He Hagx5bpAm iuBama on 1996 z., a cAeg mpemamna zoguia
ga Cbyam 8 p.kume iafl.
iO. );a cbza.acyBa c MOCB npoekmume 3a peTa6uAumawust aa gcnama.
L1. go kpasi Ha 1997 z. ga n.pegcmaBt: r CtDICHO c1zAacue uAu go2oBop omHocHo
genoiupaiemo iia (aaAumoOux omnagbk 3a nepuoga go 6-8BkgaHe 8 ekcoamnataum Hia
kio6oom. x8ocmoxpaHuAuuie.
12. pa noiucm8a pego&Ho nbMA Sa uw6o:f,aHe Ha  ?aAumofuii omflzgbk go
u3xoga Ha zp. 3Aamuia.
13. 3a 6cuiku upockmu Ha riogo6ekmumc, npeg5ugei4u B Ilpczparnama 3a
npu8e;kgaHe B cbomSemcmBue c HopMamuBeamrna ypeg6a no  okoAaama  cpega.
aoge9Aau-,uJ Ha 3agbAkume&ua OBOC, ga u3zomBsR gokAagu 3a OBOC
Ha ocHo8auue napazpaip 8 iia 300C u IaMC  N 132/31.03.97a ce onpege& makca 1 -
paWdep Ha 1 028 566(egmu MuAuoH g6agecem u ocee.M xuAagu zemcmomuLu mecgecem
u uiecm) A8.
iIMJICECThP:
D[ATA: 9.09 1997Z.                                     1E-
Tcr-L P. P



