Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17698-BUL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
FOR A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN TH3E AMOUNT OF US$16 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION PILOT PROJECT
April 15, 1998
Rural Developmeit and Environment Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Lev
1833.2 lev =US$i1.00
US$0.000545 = 1 Lev
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRO1N!YMS
CEE    Central and Eastern Europe
EBRD  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIB    European Investment Bank
EU     European Union
GOB   Government of Bulgaria
IBRD   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IDA    International Development Association
IS     International Shopping
MDK   MDK Copper Smelter
MOEW  Ministry of Environment and Waters
MOF   Ministry of Finance
MOI   Ministry of Industry
N.B.F  Not Bank-Financed
NCB   National Competitive Bidding
NTEF  National Trust Eco Fund
OC     Oversight Committee
S02    Sulfurdioxide
SW     Small Works
PA     Privatization Agency
PCT    Project Coordination Team
UM     Union Miniere
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:                Johannes F. Linn, (ECAVP)
Country Director:              Kenneth G. Lay (ECC05)
Sector Director:               Kevin M. Cleaver (ECSRE)
Sector Leader:                 Michele E. de Nevers (ECSRE)
Task Team Leader:              Spyros Margetis (ECSIN)



Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PROJECT FINANCING DATA ...............................................................I
BLOCK  1: PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  ..............................................................2
1.   Project Development Objectives ...............................................................2
2.   Project Components ..............................................................2
3.   Benefits and Target Population ...............................................................2
4.   Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ........................                                  .......................................3
BLOCK 2: PROJECT RATIONALE ...............................................................                                  .        S5
5.   CAS Objectives Supported by the Project ...............................................................5
6.  Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy .                                   ..............................................................5
7.   Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ....................................................6
8.   Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ...............................................................6
9.   Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or Other Development Agencies ............                                             ..............6
10. Lessons Learned and Reflected  in the Project Design ..........................................                              .....................6
11. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ...............................................................                                  7
12. Value Added of Bank Support ..............................................................7
BLOCK  3:  SUMMARY  OF  PROJECT  ASSESSMENTS ...............................................................                                          7
13. Economic Assessment ...............................................................7
14. Financial Assessment ..............................................................8
15. Technical Assessment ............8...................................................8
16. Institutional Assessment ..............................................................8
17. Social Assessment ..............................................................8
18. Environmental Assessment ...............................................................8
19. Participatory Approach ..............................................................9
20. Sustainability ...............................................................9
21. Critical Risks ..............................................................9
22. Possible Controversial Aspects .............................................................. 10
BLOCK  4:  MAIN  LOAN  CONDITIONS ...............................................................9
23. Effectiveness Conditions ..............................................................                                                           10
24. Other.  ........................................                                                                                                I 0
BLXOCK 5: COMPLIAiNCE WITH BANK POLICIES .1...................I0



List of Annexes:
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .........................................11
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description ........................................                                                                    13
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs ........................................                                                                         15
Annex 4. Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary ........................................                                                             17
Annex 5. Financial Summary ........................................                                                                               18
Annex 6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements ........................................                                                       19
Annex 7. Project Processing Budget and Schedule ........................................                                                         24
Annex 8. Documents in Project File ........................................                                                                      25
Annex 9. Statement of Loans and Credits ........................................                                                                 26
Annex 10. Country at a Glance ........................................                    .                                                      27
Form



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Europe and Central Asia Region
Southern Europe Department
Project Appraisal Document
Republic of Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Date: April 3,1998                                                    [] Draft       [x] Final
Task Team Leader: Spyros Margetis                    Country Director: Kenneth Lay
Project ID: BG-PA-33965        Sector: Environment            POC: Environment, Private Sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan         :         [x] Yes           [ ] No
Project Financing Data               [x] Loan      []  Credit    [3    Guarantee []    Other[ ]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m) 16
Proposed Terns:                        [3   Multicurrency     [x] Single currency
Grace period (years):    5        [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed        [x]        LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:    20
Commitment fee:     0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                              Local              Foreign          Total
Government                                  3.1                   2.6             5.7
IBRD                                        0.6                  15.4            16.0
Other: National Trust Eco Fund              0.6                   2.7             3.3
(NTEF)
TOTAL                                       4.3                  20.7            25.0
Borrower: Republic of Bulgaria
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency: Ministry of Environment and Waters (MOEW)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                           1998  1999       2000    2001    Total
Annual                             0.6   5.6       7.2      2.6    16.0
Cumulative                                    6.2     13.4    16.0    16.0
Expected effectiveness date: August 31, 1998                   Closing date: December 31, 2002



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 2
Country: Republic ofBulgaria                                    Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Block 1: Project Description
1. Project development objectives (see Annex I for key performance indicators):
The main objective of the proposed pilot project is to support the Government of Bulgaria (GOB) in (i) reducing environmental
hazards caused by past pollution and unsafe environmental management practices at MDK Copper Smelter (MDK); (ii) facilitating
private investments in the company; and (iii) contributing to improvements in the environmental performance of the plant. This pilot
project is envisaged to become a model for addressing past environmental damages and environmental liabilities in the process of
privatization.
2. Project components (see Annex 2 for detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                                   Category          Cost Incl.       % of
Contingencies     Total
(i) Emergency remediation programt                                      Physical                4             16
This component would respond to a critical environmental hazard at MDK posed
by the unstable condition of the lagoon which has been used to store semi-liquid
wastes from the acid plant and is, thus, heavily contaminated with arsenic and
other heavy metals. The lagoon is both full and leaking, posing a serious threat of
an overflow or break of the dam which would cause the wastes in the lagoon to
discharge into rivers that flow directly into the Topolnitsa reservoir, the main
source of drinking water for Plovdiv and other large towns in the Maritsa valley.
This component would (i) ensure stabilization of the dam to prevent accidents
before the lagoon is permanently closed; (ii) create a temporary solid waste
disposal facility; and (iii) change the effluent treatment process.
(ii) Remediation ofpast environmental damages                           Physical               21             84
This component of the project would address a range of environmental problems
caused by past operations of the plant to mitigate threats to the health of workers
and populations surrounding the plant, and the contamination of groundwater. It
will focus on (i) disposing solid waste, soil, and materials contaminated by
historic pollution; (ii) providing a permanent solution to the existing sludge
settling pond; (iii) ameliorating the fayalite slag tailings storage facility; (iv)
reinforcing the residue storage area; (v) rehabilitating the old slag dump.
l  Total                 25            100
3. Benefits and target population:
Project main environmental benefits will derive from (i) prevention of an accident which threatens the contamination of drinking
water supply in the whole Plovdiv area; (ii) improved environmental quality and reduced present and future health risks of workers
and population in the neighborhood of the plant due to the agreed clean-up of critical environmental hazards and improvements in the
environment performance of the plant under private management; and (iii) prevention of further contamination of groundwater
resources. Employees, populations and future generations living in the vicinity of the plant and the larger Plovdiv area are the main
beneficiaries of the project.
Additionally, the Bank's involvement in the project has facilitated the sale of majority ownership of MDK and additional private
investments, which are expected to improve (i) the environmental performance of the company bringing it into compliance with
Bulgarian environmental regulations and internationally recognized and accepted good practices; and (ii) the financial performance,
efficiency and profitability of the company, contributing to increased budgetary revenues which will benefit the entire population of
Bulgaria.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                         Page 3
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                  Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: 4 years starting in early 1998 with the implementation of the emergency component.
Project oversight: A Project Oversight Committee (OC), under the leadership of the Ministry of Environment (MOEW), will
oversee project implementation and provide guidance. Representatives of the Ministries of Industry (MOI) and Finance (MOF),
the Privatization Agency (PA) will be regular members of the OC. Representatives of Pirdop and Zlatitsa Municipalities will also
participate in the OC, and NGOs will be invited to observe the work of the OC as appropriate. The OC will receive reports from
the Project Coordination Team (PCT) (see below). The PCT will bring issues of potential non-compliance with technical,
environmental, procurement or financial requirements during project implementation to the attention of the OC. The OC may
consult with the Bank and/or with t!he Implementation Agent to address such problems.
Project implementation: Based on an Implementation Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between the MOEW as representative of
the GOB and MDK-Union Miniere (MDK-UM), the latter will implement the project through a project management team in
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Specifically, MDK-UM will:
*  Prepare detailed technical and engineering designs in compliance with the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of MDK,
and Bulgarian technical and environmental requirements;
*  Submit engineering designs and detailed cost estimates to the PCT for review and approval;
*  Prepare procurement notices and bidding documents based on standard bidding documents and procurement procedures and
guidelines of the World Bank for the work to be carried out.
*  Issue bidding documents;
*  Receive and evaluate procurement bids, and forward bid evaluations to the PCT for review and approval;
*  Submit procurement documents to the PCT for review and approval, and simultaneously notify the Bank about all draft
bidding and evaluation reports;
*  Upon approval, arrange for the procurement of goods and works in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines;
*  Supervise the execution of works;
*  Receive invoices from contractors and suppliers in accordance with their contractual arrangements;
*  Submit copies of the contracts and invoices to the PCT for review together with a copy of the written notice to be sent to
MDK-UM to the Escrow Agent for release of funds from the escrow account;
*  Submit invoices and supporting documents, in accordance with the World Bank 's disbursement guidelines, to the Escrow
Agent for reimbursement;
*  Submit invoices, necessary documentation of satisfactorily completed work and delivery of goods, and proof of payment in
US Dollars for eligible expenses to the PCT within 3 working days of each payment for review and reimbursement;
*  Provide quarterly data on progress in project implementation including procurement to the PCT to enable it to prepare
quarterly progress reports for submission to the OC and World Bank;
*  Enable representatives of the PCT to visit its facilities and construction sites and to examine the works, goods, plants, and
installations in connection with the project; and
*  Make project documents available to the PCT, and independent auditors as requested.
The management costs associated with this work will not be covered by the project.
Project coordination: The NTEF would be Project Coordinating Agent based on an Agency Agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
between the MOEW as representative of the GOB and the NTEF. The NTEF will also parallel finance the emergency component
of the project from its own funds. The costs of project coordination will not be covered by the Bank loan. To discharge its project
coordination responsibilities, the NTEF will rely on a small PCT, Coordination of the PCT will be carried out by the management
of the NTEF. Specifically, the NTEF management will:
*  Be responsible for coordinating all project activities in order to ensure smooth and timely implementation of the project;
* Ensure liaison between the F'CT, other government agencies involved in the project, and the World Bank project team;
*  Ensure that agreed technical, procurement and other requirements are adhered to by MDK-UM;
*  Ensure that the project is implemented in accordance with Bulgarian environmental regulations;
*  Ensure the timely submission of procurement documents, bid evaluations, invoices and their assessment by the PCT to the
World Bank for review and clearance;
*  Ensure that any problems or non-compliance issues are brought to the attention of the Bank and the OC;
*  Ensure timely arrangements for annual audit of accounts;
*  Ensure the collection and maintenance of project documents, including documents relating to project accounts; and
Ensure the preparation and timely submission of quarterly financial and procurement reports to the OC and the World Bank.
Forrn



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 4
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                  Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
The PCT will consist of a Financial, Procurement, and Technical Officers employed by the NTEF and selected by a competitive
process. The Terms of Reference and short list of Officers will be approved by the OC and the Bank. The PCT will work closely
with the project management team in MDK-UM and the MOEW to ensure that the project complies with the terms of the loan and
the Implementation and Agency Agreements.
Specifically, the Financial Officer will:
* Design a project chart of accounts, financial reporting formats, internal control procedures, and select and install an
accounting software system to facilitate the generation of necessary financial statements;
* Generate auditable project financial statements to facilitate analysis of the financial status of the project according to the
World Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook;
* Verify that invoices and the supporting documents (e.g., contracts or purchase orders, transport documents, proof of
payments, etc.) submitted to the PCT by MDK-UM comply with the Bank's requirements for reimbursement;
* Notify the Bank, the OC and MDK-UM of non-compliance of the invoices and/or supporting documents with the Bank's
disbursement requirements;
* Keep separate records for the project components financed from the NTEF's own funds and from the Bank's loan;
* Verify which financing source invoices, submitted by MDK-UM for reimbursement, relate to;
* Prepare withdrawal applications and supporting documents for the signature of the authorized persons and submit them to the
World Bank for disbursements;
* Keep up-to-date project accounts and records and monitor disbursement requests under the loan;
* Keep up-to-date records of the VAT payments and reimbursements related to invoices submitted by MDK-UM; and
* Prepare quarterly financial reports to be submitted to the Bank and the OC.
The Procurement Officer will:
* Ensure that the agreed procurement procedures, as included in the Procurement Schedule of the Loan Agreement, as well as
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, are followed;
* Coordinate with the MDK-UM project team the preparation of advertisements; bidding documents (based on the standard
bidding documents of the World Bank, wherever applicable); evaluation reports, contracts, etc.
* Verify procurement documents, including advertisements, draft bidding documents, evaluation reports, contracts, etc.,
prepared by MDK-UM to ensure compliance with agreed procurement procedures;
*  Ensure the timely submission of all draft bidding documents and bid evaluation reports to the Bank for prior review and
clearance;
* Prepare procurement documents for withdrawal applications from the Bank; and
* Maintain up to date procurement records and procurement data; and
* Prepare quarterly procurement reports to be submitted to the Bank, and the OC.
The Technical Officer will:
* Review detailed engineering designs and costs to ensure compliance with the EIA of MDK, its Technical Annexes, and Cost
Estimate, and the MOEW's Decision on EIA (MOEW's Decision);
* Notify the OC and the Bank about cost estimates of the EIA of MDK and those of detailed engineering plans if they exceed
5%;
* Check if the technical specifications detailed in the procurement and bidding documents are in compliance with the technical
solutions described in the EIA of MDK and its Technical Annexes, the MOEW's Decision, and Bulgarian technical and
environmental regulations and requirements;
* Evaluate the bid selection to ensure that the most cost-effective and appropriate technical solutions were selected by MDK-
UM; and
* In accordance with the PCT's or OC's instructions, monitor the implementation of works at MDK-UM to ensure that they are
carried out in accordance with technical and environmental requirements and specifications outlined in the bidding
documents.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 5
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                   Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Escrow Agent of the GOB: Based otn the Share Purchase Agreement between the PA and Union Miniere (UM), part of the sale
price of MDK has been placed on an Escrow Account to be operated by BNP Paris. The account has been set up in the name of the
PA based on an Escrow Agreement. Funds from the Escrow Account will be drawn to fund the remediation program and to meet
other liabilities retained by the GOB under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement. It has been agreed that 6-9 months after
signing the Share Purchase Agreement, and after financing from the NTEF and World Bank becomes effective, the possibility of
releasing an agreed amount from the escrow account to the GOB will be reviewed and agreed upon by the GOB and MDK-UM.
The balance in the account, including accrued interest, will be transferred to the GOB after the project is completed and other
liability issues have been resolved.
Disbursement: MDK-UM will subrnit invoices to the Escrow Agent for reimbursement and will pay contractors directly. MDK-
UM will be responsible for providing to the PCT the relevant invoices, supportIng documents, and proof of payment to contractors
in US Dollars within 3 working days of each payment based on documentation and format agreed upon with the Bank. Once this
information is received by the PCT, it will prepare withdrawal application to the Bank for minimum amounts of US$ 250,000.
Reimbursement through the Escrow Agent to the GOB will be the only form of Bank disbursement. The Bank will reimburse 80%
of local, and 100% of foreign costs up to a maximum of $16 million in total for eligible goods and works excluding customs duties
and local transportation costs.
Accounting. financial reporting and auditing arrangements: MDK-UM will maintain records and accounts in compliance with
sound accounting practices to reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures in respect to the implementation of the project. It
will make such records and accounts available during project implementation for auditing by independent auditors. The financial
statements of the project will be audited annually by a qualified audit firm in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the
Bank. The PCT will have responsibility for financial accounting, reporting and audits of its project-related accounts. The internal
accounting and reporting procedures of NTEF will be assessed by a qualified audit firm, and any insufficiencies will be addressed
before Loan effectiveness. The PC T will submit quarterly financial reports to the Bank including reports on (i) summary of
sources and uses of funds; (ii) cost variance; (iii) unit variance; (iv) project forecast for 6 months; (v) expenditures by
disbursement category. A summary of disbursements will be included in the annual audited financial statements. The audit of
financial statements will also include (i) assessment of accounting and internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other
financial transactions; (ii) assessment of the adequacy of documentation on relevant transactions; and (iii) verification of the
eligibility of expenditures for Bank financing.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: The MOEW will submit semi-annual progress reports, and a completion report to the
Bank for review. Additionally, the PCT will submit quarterly financial and procurement reports to the OC and the Bank directly.
The Bank will supervise the implementation through semi-annual missions. Performance indicators will be monitored and
evaluated on the basis of data provided by the PCT.
Block 2: Project Rationale
5. CAS objective(s) supported by the project:     Document number and date of latest CAS discussion:
*  Protecting and enhancing the environment.      17655-BUL; Next CAS discussion is scheduled on April 28, 1998.
*  Facilitate structural reforms and lprivate sector
development.
6. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Bulgaria has to deal with serious environmental problems such as localized industrial "hot spots"; and inadequate environmental
management at large industrial enterprises. Bulgaria's Environmental Strategy Study (FY93) and its recent Update and Follow-up
(FY95) have identified key priority areas to which environmental action will have to be focused such as: (i) reduction of lead and
other heavy metals from the environment; (ii) mitigation of particulate emissions; (iii) abatement of sulfur dioxide and other irritant
gases; (iv) water resource management and protection of drinking water; and (v) forestry management. Progress has been made in
addressing the problems of some specific emission sources, and in improving the effectiveness of the Government's environmental
management. Although overall pollution levels have fallen during the past years, there is concern that environmental conditions may
deteriorate again as industrial growth resumes, especially if environmental issues are not addressed properly in the privatization of
large polluting industrial enterprises planned as part of the GOB's ambitious privatization program.
Form_



Project Appraisal Document                                                                            Page 6
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                    Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
7. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project would address several of the priority environmental issues identified in the Environmental Strategy Study and its Update
and Follow-up, such as the reduction of heavy metal contamination around one of the major industrial plants; protection of drinking
water; and support of improved environmental management in industrial enterprises. The purchase of MDK by a strategic investor
was conditional upon the assurances from the GOB of dealing with environmental problems accumulated during the past operation of
the plant. It also provides an excellent opportunity for the GOB to address environmental issues related to the future operation of the
plant such as adoption of environmental protection practices and compliance with environmental regulations and standards.
A follow-up operation to this pilot project is envisaged to establish a framework and mechanism to systematically addressing
environmental remediation and compliance issues in connection with the GOB's privatization program without the Bank's direct
involvement in each individual case. Based on lessons learned from the pilot operation, guidelines will be identified to (i) introduce
environmental requirements into the standard bidding documents; (ii) involve the MOEW, other environmental experts, and
stakeholders early on in the privatization process; (iii) clearly establish rules and requirements for necessary environmental
remediation; (iv) provide an independent evaluation of the scope and costs of recommended environmental remediation measures; (v)
ensure the availability of financial resources for project implementation; (vi) facilitate the private sector's interest in reducing the
implementation costs; and (vii) address the possibility unforeseen environmental problems related to past operations.
8. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A previously considered project alternative focused on the implementation of "win-win" measures such as process changes;
investment in cleaner technologies; and improvements in plant management at MDK to improve its environmental performance and
contribute to better environmental quality and reduced threats to the health of population in the vicinity of the plant. This alternative
was no longer appropriate because the strategic investor plans to undertake the previously envisaged "win-win" measures as part of its
investment program.
Several technical solutions have been considered for the past damage mitigation plan. The technical, environmental, and financial
assessment of these options resulted in the selection of the proposed project as most feasible and cost-effective.
9. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
The project is the first of its kind in Bulgaria and in the Central and Eastern European region. A larger-scale follow-up Environmental
Remediation Project is planned on the basis of the experience and lessons learned from the proposed pilot project to address
environmental problems and hazards associated with past operations of large industrial enterprises under privatization.
10. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The most relevant lessons are those learned from privatization in a range of developing countries. A recent review of the privatization
of large entities with significant adverse environmental impact has concluded that privatization generally contributed to improved
environmental performance, but also pointed out that incentives should require and reward such improvements; and government
commitment and capacity should be in place to ensure the effectiveness of incentives at the time of privatization and to address the
mitigation of environmental damages caused by past operations.
The project has also considered the experience of other countries in Central and Eastern Europe (GEE) in dealing with environmental
issues during privatization. Such experience has shown that (i) the lack of clarity and agreement about environmental liabilities and
obligations increases the risks of investors, and leaves serious environmental problems unresolved; and (ii) the lack of capacity to
evaluate the magnitude of past environmental damages and to identify proper mitigation measures during negotiations with strategic
investors results in delays in the privatization, excessive costs to governments, and tensions between governments and the new owners
after privatization takes place.
Therefore, this project (i) supports the principle of Government responsibility for past environmental damages to provide comfort to
investors; (ii) provides an independent evaluation of necessary measures and costs; and (iii) establishes a mechanism of inter-agency
oversight and consultation involving the MOF, MOI, PA, and other affected parties under the leadership of the MOEW to ensure a
clear and systematic approach to environmental problems. The project has also built on technical assistance provided by the EU Phare
Programme to the MOEW and independent consulting companies to strengthen local capacity in carrying out and evaluating
environmental assessments and audits.
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 7
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                   Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
11. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
World Bank support for the project has been requested by the Deputy Prime Minister of Bulgaria. Additionally, strong commitment
has been expressed to address environmental liability issues in the privatization process by the MOEW, MOF, MOI, and the PA.
Moreover, the Parliament adopted a Privatization Law that clearly indemnifies the buyers of state owned property from liability for
past environmental damage, and the M[OEW requires the preparation of environmental audits by major industrial enterprises prior to
privatization, in order to establish the extent of the environmental damage; potential liabilities caused by past operations; and
recommended measures to address existing environmental problems. To facilitate the preparation of audits, environmental impact
assessments, and management plans for enterprises under privatization, the MOEW established an approval system of environmental
consultants, and the EU Phare Programrme has supported training of MOEW staff and environmental consultants.
During the preparation of the project, regular inter-governmental meetings have been organized by the MOEW to discuss
controversial issues, and coordinate arnong a range of Government agencies.
12. Value added of Bank support:
Environmental liability issues and the clean-up of past environmental damage have been serious obstacles of concluding the sale of
MDK. Failing to address environmental issues during privatization would have not only deterred reputable strategic investors from
investing in the company, but it would also lead to prolonged environmental problems and disputes after privatization.
The involvement of the World Bank has facilitated the privatization and the participation of other future investors (EBRD and EIB
have already expressed interest) by reducing uncertainties and the risks of investment in the company. The role of the World Bank is
that of an honest broker, providing (i) an independent evaluation of necessary measures and costs of the clean-up; (ii) comfort to the
investors that clean-up will be implemented in a satisfactory manner; (iii) assurances that environmental management and compliance
issues will be properly addressed after privatization in line with internationally recognized good practices. Additionally, the Bank loan
softens the fiscal burden of addressing past environmental damages.
The project is also fostering inter-governmental coordination and the MOEW's participation early in the privatization process in order
to avoid the neglect or mis-handling of environmental issues during privatization. The ERPP's approach of addressing these problems
transparently is likely to serve as a model for future privatization of large industrial enterprises with serious environmental problems.
Block 3: Summary Project Assessments (Detailed assessments are in the project file. See Annex 8)
13. Economic Assessment   [    Cost-Benefit Analysis: N/A   ERR= N/A   []  Cost Effectiveness   [x] Other
(see Annex 4):                                                                 Analysis:
The main environmental benefits of the project are associated with the (i) prevention of an accident which threatens the contamination
of water supply with arsenic and other toxic substances in Plovdiv and its area; (ii) reduction of health damage caused by the
exposure of workers and population living in the vicinity of the plant to harmful substances; and (iii) prevention of further
contamination of groundwater resources by seepage through improperly stored hazardous waste at the plant. However, due to the lack
of well established causal relationships between exposures to certain pollutants and their impacts on human health and ecological
conditions, the project cannot be subjected to benefit-cost analysis which is quantitatively meaningful.
The nature and magnitude of environtmental problems of the plant have been extensively evaluated and demonstrated by various
studies and an environmental audit before the privatization of the company. Bidders for the company had knowledge of these
problems, and made their offers with considerations for the necessary investments and costs of bringing the company into compliance
with acceptable environmental practices and standards.
The project has enabled the privatization of the company by ensuring that reasonable measures would be undertaken to eliminate the
environmental risks and adverse effects associated with the plant's past operations; and that good industrial practices, environmental
guidelines and standards would be adhered to. Interested bidders have set a condition for the GOB to clean up past environmental
damages which are the responsibility of the GOB under Bulgarian law. Thus, the completion of the remediation program (i) was an
essential element of the successful privatization which resulted in larger revenues than previously anticipated; and (ii) led to a
commitment by the new owner to miake significant further investments in the modernization and expansion of the plant.
The scope of remediation measures has been determined by broad and detailed negotiations between the PA, MOEW, and the investor
based on environmental assessments, technical specifications, independent expert evaluations and public discussions. Several
technical alternatives have been considered to address the past contamination problems at the plant by the environmental impact
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 8
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                   Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
assessment of MDK, and the most cost-effective one was selected. The project represents an outcome considered reasonable and
acceptable by all parties, as well as by independent experts and affected stakeholders. It complies with internationally recognized
good environmental practices, and guidelines recommended by the World Bank.
Fiscal impact:
The GOB faces problems with its balance of payments and shortage of foreign reserves. It is, therefore, heavily reliant on revenues
generated by cash privatization. The project has a positive impact on the GOB's fiscal situation because:
*  An agreement about the project has enabled the GOB to sell the company to a strategic investor resulting in significant immediate
budgetary revenues;
*  The privatization of the company is expected to have additional positive long-term fiscal impacts due to improved profitability of
the enterprise;
*  Counterpart grant financing for the project by the NTEF contributes to budgetary revenues;
*  The Bank's involvement allows the GOB to realize higher revenues from the privatization up-front in exchange for deferred
budgetary outlays during the maturity of the loan.
Repayment of the Bank loan is expected from the general budget based on the revenues generated by the privatization. There are no
recurrent costs associated with the project.
The availability of parallel funding for the first component of the project has been confirmed by the NTEF.
14. Financial Assessment (see Annex 5)          NPV= N/A        million; FRR= N/A
The project does not generate financial revenues, and it's justification is not dependent on the financial performance of the company.
Therefore, no financial assessment is necessary.
15. Technical Assessment:
The ERPP will rely on known and commercially available and sound technologies and practices, following internationally acceptable
standards for design, construction, and operation and maintenance. It will also consist of civil works that will be designed and
implemented by agencies with good records in execution of such works. The preliminary technical and implementation plans have
been extensively reviewed and supported by Bulgarian and international experts, while further detailed specifications and engineering
designs will be evaluated by the Technical Officer on behalf of the PCT. The involvement in technical design and supervision of
physical works by an internationally reputable and experienced company (UM) provides further assurances of reliable
implementation.
16. Institutional Assessment:
a. Implementation agent: The project implementation team of MDK-UM consists of well qualified technical staff with extensive
experience in project engineering, design, procurement and management. In order to ensure compliance with World Bank
procurement requirements, the team has received training and detailed information of World Bank procurement procedures and
guidelines, and will participate in additional procurement training before Loan effectiveness.
b. Coordinating agent: The NTEF has well trained staff, some of whom have worked on previous World Bank projects, and are
familiar with Bank procedures, procurement, and financial requirements. The selection of additional experts will be carried out
through a competitive selection process acceptable to the Bank. Additional training and consultation have been provided to the PCT in
World Bank procurement procedures. The internal audit and reporting system of the NTEF will be assessed by an international audit
firm and, if necessary, steps will be taken to strengthen these in a timely manner.
17. Social Assessment: N/A
18. Environmental Assessment:          Environmental         [x] A      [   B       [3   C
Category
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                           Page 9
Countly: Republic of Bulgaria                                   Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Detailed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been prepared, reviewed and publicly discussed according to Bulgarian and
World Bank requirements. The municipalities and residents of Pirdop and Zlatitsa have been extensively consulted about the project's
scope and objectives, and formal public meetings have been organized with the participation of the public, NGOs, and wide media
coverage. Additionally, an international expert was hired to provide, on behalf of the MOEW, independent evaluation of the EIA and
the environmental, technical, and financial aspects of the environmental damage mitigation plan proposed by the EIA.
19. Participatory Approach:                   Identification/Preparation    Implementation          Operation
Beneficiaries/community groups                           CON                     CON                    IS
Intermediary NGOs                                        CON                     CON                    IS
Academic institutions                                    COL
Local government                                         CON                     CON                  CON
Other donors (Swiss Government)                          CON                     COL                   COL
Other (EU Phare Programme)                               CON
Other (EBRD))                                            CON                     COL                   COL
[Note: For each of the stakeholders above, identify the form of planned involvement as: information sharing (IS); consultation (CON);
and collaboration (COL)
20. Sustainability:
The environmental management plan for MDK, prepared for the investor and endorsed by the GOB, identifies measures to address
past pollution, as well as measures and investments necessary to improve the environmental performance of the company and bring it
into compliance with environmental norms, standards and good practices. A Decision has been issued by the MOEW, obligating
MDK-UM to implement the past environmental damage mitigation plan recommended by the EIA; and determining a schedule for
gradual improvements in the plant's environmental performance. Compliance with this resolution is a condition of the operational
permit of the company. MDK-UM, therefore, is strongly motivated to properly implement the project. Additionally, the new majority
owner of MDK-UM is a reputable international company which has strong commitment to demonstrate good environmental
performance.
The MOEW is highly committed to ensure and oversee the implementation of the project and the company's compliance with its
resolution.
Participation of EBRD and, potentially EIB, in the company's future plans provides further assurances that the project will be
implemented, and ongoing operations of the plant will comply with Bulgarian and international environmental standards and good
practices.
21. Critical Risks:
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk                    Risk Rating                 Risk Minimization Measure
Low effectiveness of measures undertaken by the    Low  The environmental management and damage mitigation plan for
project to achieve improvements in the plant's        MDK has built on the results of a large number of environmental
environmental performance.                            studies, assessment and audit to ensure the selection of most effective
measures and technologies; and it has been evaluated by independent
experts on behalf of the GOB. Additionally, a Technical Officer will
be employed by the PCT to ensure effectiveness.
Project components to outputs
Risk                    Risk Rating                  Risk Minimization Measure
Delays in implementation due to unresolved  Medium   Procurement arrangements have been extensively discussed between
procurement issues.                                   the Bank, NTEF, and MDK-UM. The NTEF will employ a
Procurement Expert to work closely with MDK-UM to ensure
compliance with Bank requirements and to facilitate timely approval
of the procurement documents by the Bank.
Overall project risk rating
Risk                    Risk Rating
The project has low overall risk.             Low
Form



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 10
Country: Republic ofBulgaria                                      Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
22. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Implementation of certain sub-components of the project is dependent on the acquisition of additional land ownership by MDK-UM.
This process is presently well underway.
Block 4: Main Loan Conditions
23. Effectiveness Conditions
(i) PCT selected and appointed by selection process acceptable to the Bank
(ii) Execution of, and fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness, Implementation Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between
MDK-UM and the MOEW
(iii) Execution of, and fulfillment of conditions of effectiveness, Agency Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between the
NTEF and the MOEW
(iv) Transfer of ownership or land use rights to MDK-UM, necessary to implement the project by MDK-UM.
24. Other
Block 5: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[]    The project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Task Te         :e Spyros Margetis                                ountry Director- KenneLay
Form _



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page II
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                    Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Annex 1
Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators'    Monitoring and Supervision     Critical Assumptions
CAS Objectives                                                                           (CAS Objective to Bank
Mission)
- Improvement in the quality    - Reduction of heavy metals in   - Semi-annual reporting of  - Improvements at the plant
of the environment in the   the surface water and soil: the    ambient water and air quality   have significant impact in
Pirdop-Zlatitsa area         arsenic content in the        measurements around the      ambient environmental
Topolnitsa river (at the point    plant by the MOEW        quality
after the inflow of the
Pirdopska and Zlatishka                                   - Monitoring data will be
rivers) should comply with                                 available to the MOEW
standards for a 3rd category
water intake
- Maximum concentrations of
particulates and SO2 should
not exceed 1996 levels, and
after the third year will meet
Bulgarian ambient standards
- Facilitating private sector  New capital investments and   - Economic reports and UM's   - GOB's commitment to
development and structural    improved economic            Annual Reports               support private sector
reforms                      performance at MDK-UM                                      development
Project Development                                                                      (Development Objectives to
Objectives                                                                                CAS Objective)
- Reduction of environmental   - No accidental spill will occur  - Semi-annual reporting of  - Improvements in the
hazards caused by past      from the old slime pond        groundwater monitoring data   operation of the plant as a
pollution at MDK           - Reduction in the discharges   and the plant's air and water   result of improved
of heavy metals and other     emission monitoring data by    management, process
pollutants into surface water:   the MOEW                  changes, and investments
arsenic concentration will not                            in cleaner technologies and
exceed 1.5 mg/I daily average                              pollution abatement
during the first three years of
the project, and 0.5 mg/I
daily (0.1 mg/I annual)
average thereafter beyond the
water treatment plant
- Groundwater quality will be
at least maintained
- Contribution to            - Compliance with the         - Semi-annual reporting on the  - Enforcement of the
improvements in the          MOEW's Resolution on EIA      environmental compliance of   environmental performance
environmental performance    and environmental             MDK-UM by the MOEW           requirements agreed
of the plant                 performance requirements                                   between MDK and the
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   M O EW
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 12
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                    Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Project Outputs                                                                          (Outputs to Development
Objectives)
- Elimination of immediate   - Impermeability and structural  - Reports on satisfactory leak    - Measures undertaken by the
environmental hazards of the   stability of the dam around  detection and hydraulic     project are effective to reduce
sludge pond                  the sludge pond               resistance tests             environmental risks
- Safer treatment, storage, and   - Upgraded and functioning  - Performance reports of the
handling of arsenic-         waste treatment process       new facility
containing waste           - Functioning temporary waste
storage facility
- Reduction of risks associated  - Transfer of contaminated  - Completion reports of the
with contaminated            buildings, material, and waste   transfer of contaminated soil,
structures, material and soil    products into the old sludge  material and structures to the
on the pant's site          settling pond                  pond
- Safer waste handling and   - Upgraded and operating      - Completion and performance
storage at the plant         fayalite tailings facility    reports of the new facilities
- Renewed residue storage with
operating surface drainage
system
- Closing of old slag dump
with operating surface
drainage system and
vegetation cover
Closing of old sludge pond   - Closing and vegetating the  - Completion report
surface of the old sludge
- pond                                                         __
Project Components                                                                      (Components to Outputs)
[See Annex 2 for a detailed
description.]
L. Emergency clean-up of
immediate environmental
hazards:
- Reinforcement of the dam   - Work carried out according    - Procurement and           - No delays in implementation
around the old sludge        to time schedule              disbursement documents      - Timely disbursement of funds
settling pond                                              provided to the Bank for    - No cost overruns
- Change of the effluent     - Key equipment timely          approval
treatment mechanism         installed and work completed  - Semi-annual progress reports
- Establishment of temporary    - Work carried out according to   and disbursement report
storage facility            time schedule                 from the PCT
II. Remediation ofpast
environmental damage:
- Excavate, demolish and     - Same as above               - Same as above               - Same as above
transport contaminated
material to fill sludge storage
pond
- Compress and encapsulate   - Same as above               - Same as above               - Same as above
the old sludge settling pond
- Ameliorate the fayalite    - Same as above               - Same as above               - Same as above
tailings storage facility
- Reinforce residue storage  - Same as above               - Same as above               - Same as above
area
- Close old slag dump        - Same as above               - Same as above               - Same as above



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Page 13
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                              Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Annex 2
Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Detailed Project Description
Project Component 1 - Emergency Clean-up of Immediate Environmental Hazards - US$
4 million (total cost of component)
This component of the project is aimed at addressing an immediate environmental
hazard posed by the unstable condition of a six hectare sludge settling pond which was used to
collect sediments from treated process waters from the plant located in the southern part of the
plant site. The sediiments contain arsenic gypsum sludge in a near liquid form. The estimated
volume of sludge is about 530,000 m3 representing about 150,000 tons of solids containing
arsenic and other heavy metals including copper and lead.
The pond was constructed in 1956 and subsequently raised three times to its final height,
which is about 14 meters at its highest point. The settling pond represents a critical
environmental risk since it is practically full (the water surface in the pond is only 0.6 m below
the top of the dam, and the sludge is less than I m below the water surface). Moreover, the
perimeter of the dam is unstable, as demonstrated by seepage detected in 1997 in three different
places. In 1989, a major environmental disaster was narrowly avoided by reinforcing the walls of
the lagoon in an emergency effort to prevent the collapse of the walls.
An overflow of the pond caused by a major rainfall, or the breaking of the dam could
cause a discharge of arsenic and other toxic contaminants into the Topolnitsa Reservoir, which
serves as the main source of drinking water for Plovdiv and other large towns in the Maritsa
valley.
The main focus on this part of the project is to address the unstable condition of the
settling pond by providing goods, equipment and works required to:
1. Stabiliize the dam of the pond by (i) adding fill to the slime lagoon for reinforcement;
and (ii) adding a clay zone on the upstream side of the slime lagoon;
2. Modify the effluent treatment mechanisms and solid disposal by (i) upgrading
neutralization plant; (ii) installation of new clarifier; (iii) installation of filter
presses; (iv) installation of multimedia filters; and (v) installation of pH adjustment
equiprnent; and
3. Establish temporary solid waste storage lagoons by (i) excavating waste and soil
from existing small lagoons and installation of a liner; and (ii) installation of a
drainage system.
Project Component 2 - Clean-up of Critical Past Environmental Damage - US$ 21.0
million (total cost of component)
This component deals with additional environmental problems of past operations of the
plant, such as 2.5 million tons of tailings stored in a pond without precautionary measures to
prevent contamination; contaminated solid waste residues discarded in several areas on the
plant's site; seven million tons of slag located near the plant covering an area of 30 hectares
causing rainwater seepages and water contamination; contaminated soil from various plant



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 14
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                   Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
operations, buildings, concrete, bricks, oil acid spills, and other substances containing heavy
metals disposed indiscriminately. In order to address these environmental problems caused by
past operation of MDK, this part of the project includes the provision of goods and works
required to:
I.   Undertake provisional dust abatement by: (i) closing the existing tailings pond A,
including reshaping of the pond surface, covering the tailings with soil,
constructing surface water control, installing dam ballast on the south side and
vegetating the area; (ii) modifying existing intermediate tailings pond B through
excavation and installation of a new drainage system; and (iii) constructing new
intermediate tailings pond C through excavation, dike construction and installation
of a drainage system (US$ 0.6 million);
2.   Reinforce the residue storage area by (i) completely renewing the base including
removal of the asphalt and excavation of contaminated soil; (ii) covering the soil
with heavy plastic liner (US$ 0.9 million);
3.   Dispose of solid waste and improve ground conditions by: (i) excavation of solid
waste piles; (ii) excavation of contaminated soils; (iii) excavation of calcium
arsenite slimes; (iv) excavating bricks and concrete; (v) scrapping of metals; (vi)
demolition of buildings; and (vii) clean backfill (US$ 9.3 million);
4.   Close the old slag dump by (i) re-grading and landscaping the dump; (ii) covering
the dump with soil; (iii) providing surface drainage consisting of ditches and a
channel to the Pirdopska River; and (iv) vegetating the covered dump to control
water and wind erosion (US$ 1.4 million); and
5.   Close the old slime settling pond by (i) compressing slime through installation of
collection piping, pumping of surface waters, installation of a drainage system and
placement of fill materials, and (ii) encapsulation of the said pond by installation
of liner, placement of a protective soil cover, revegetation of the cover and
installation of the monitoring and collection wells (US$ 8.8 million).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 15
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                     Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Annex 3
Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                Local         Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million-------------------
Component I.: Emergency reimediation
Subtotal                                            0.7          2.8             3.5
Component lI.:Remediation of past pollution
Old site clean-up                                 0.4          7.0             7.4
Slime pond                                          0          7.0             7.0
Fayalite tailings disposal                        0.5           0              0.5
Residue storage                                   0.7           0              0.7
Slag dump rehabilitation                          1.2           0              1.2
Subtotal                                            2.8         14.0            16.8
Total Baseline Cost                                 3.5         16.8            20.3
Physical Contingencies                           0.7          3.5             4.2
Price Contingencies                              0.1          0.4             0.5
Total Project Cost                                  4.3         20.7            25.0



Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Detailed Project Costs
Years Ending December 31.
(US$'000)
1998                      1999                       2000                   2001             1998- 2001         Total
Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign
Component 1.
Base cost              730     2810        3540                                                                                730      2810       3540
Contingency             95      365         460                                                                                 95       365        460
Subtotal               825     3175        4000                                                                                825      3175       4000
Component 11.
solid waste             80        80       160    349      2044    2393         0   3467   3467        0    1393   1393      429      6983       7412
slimepond                0       400       400      0      2501     2501        0   3150   3150        0     986    986        0      7038       7038
fayalite tailings        0         0         0    251         0      251      193       0    193      32       0      32     476       476        476
residue storage         36         0        36    672         0      672        0       0      0       0       0       0     708          0       708
slag dump                                    0    396                396      542       0    542    228        0    228    1166          0       1166
Base cost                116       480      596   1668       4545     6214      735   6616   7351    260    2379   2639    2779        14021      16800
Physical contingency      26       108       134    375      1023     1398      165   1489   1654      59      535    594      625      3155       3780
Price contingency          3        12        15     42       114      155       18    165    184       7       59     66       69       351        420
Subtotal                 145       600      745   2086       5681     7767      919   8271   9189    325    2974   3299    3474        17526      21000
Total Base Cost          846      3290     4136   1668       4545    6214       735   6616   7351    260    2379   2639    3509        16831      20340
Total physical cont.     121       473       594    375      1023     1398      165   1489   1654      59      535    594      720      3520       4240
Totalpricecont.            3        12        15     42       114      155       18    165    184       7       59     66       69       351        420                 8
Total Project Cost       970      3775     4745   2086       5681    7767       919   8271   9189    325    2974   3299    4299    20701          25000
0
e
g
5.
R
iri
4



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 17
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                     Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Annex 4
Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Cost-effectiveness indicator
Various alternatives to the proposed project design have been considered and evaluated from technical,
environmental and financial point of view. Considerations have been given to such technical alternatives to the proposed
option as:
(i)  mixing the arsenic sludge with fayalite tailings into solid form and disposing it into an off-site tailings pond;
(ii) mixing the sludge with local clay soil and contacting the mixture into a large mound; and
(iii) processing the sludge through a cyanide technology to extract gold, followed by mixing the slimes with
fayalite and pumping the mixture into an off-site tailings pond.
The above alternatives have been rejected due to their inferior environmental and financial implications. The
proposed solution - compression of the sludge using contaminated waste and material - has environmentally favorable
outcomes such as reduced groundwater contamination due to increased density of sludge; and smaller risk of arsenic spillage
by avoiding the transportation of sludge. It was also selected as the most cost-effective alternative which addresses not only
the problem of the sludge pond, but also the clean-up of waste and contaminated soil and material on the plant site at the
same time (see details in the EIA and technical support document 4).
The technical solutions and estimated costs of the project have been subject to independent review by Erik Solbu
AB in cooperation with Povvik EP Ltd. and ET Ekosistem (report included in project file). The independent experts have
supported the selected technical solutions as most feasible and reasonable.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                    Page 18
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                         Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Annex 5
Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31.
(US$ million)
Implementation Period               Total
1998       1999        2000       2001
Project Costs
Total Investment         4.7        7.8         9.2       3.3       25.0
Costs
Financing Sources (%
of total project costs)
IBRD                     22         73          79        78         64
NTEF                     70          0           0         0         13
Government                8         27          21        22         23
Total                100        100          100      100        100



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 19
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                            Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Annex 6
Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Responsibilities. MDK-UM's project team will have the overall responsibility for procurement under
the project. It will comply with the agreed procurement procedures and timetables. The PCT in the NTEF will
ensure this compliance both by consulting MDK-UM on procurement issues and reviewing procurement
documents preparecl by MDK-UM. To ensure that the MDK-UM project management team have the required
capability to carry out procurement work in compliance with World Bank procedures and guidelines, the
procurement expert, as well as the technical experts responsible for procurement, will be provided with detailed
training. Several of NTEF's staff have already received detailed World Bank procurement training. Close to the
date of loan effectiveness, a project launch workshop will also be held to ensure that the staff responsible for the
implementation of the project understand the Bank's requirements and agreed procurement procedures.
Procurement Methods (Table A). The procurement of works and goods, consisting of pipes, valves,
plastic liners, etc., linder the project will be conducted in accordance with the Bank's guidelines "Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 and revised in January and August, 1996, and
September 1997. The project components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with national
regulations or the cofinancing institutions' procurement regulations. A General Procurement Notice will be
published in the Development Business in April, 1998.
Civil Works US$ 16.1 million. Works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ I million or
more each will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Additionally, the ICB contract for
the demolition of buildings will be subject to prequalification which will be conducted in accordance with the
Procurement Guidelines. National Competitive Lidding (NCB) will be used for civil works contracts estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of US$1 million. The NCB procedure is justified because of the existence of a
competitive construction industry in Bulgaria, and due to the urgency and nature of environmental clean-up work
which can be best undertaken by national contractors. The domestic construction contractors have the necessary
capacity, including the equipment, to undertake the civil works under the project. The Bank-financed component
of the project will include 3 ICB contracts covering the aggregate amount of US$ 12.6 million; and 6 NCB
contracts in the aggregate amount of US$ 3.5 million.
Goods US$ 4.9 million. The project will require goods consisting of pipes, filter fabrics, plastic liners
etc., and installation. All goods will be procured through ICB. The Bank-financed component of the project
will include one IC13 package in the aggregate amount of US$ 4.9 million.
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B). MDK-UM will use the Bank's standard bidding documents for
ICB procurement for both goods and civil works. The Bank's prequalification document will be used for the ICB
package for the demolition of buildings. The NCB bidding documents will be based on the Bank's Regional
Standardized Bidding Documents and will be submitted through the PCT to the Bank for its clearance prior to
their use.
MDK-UM will receive, open, and evaluate bids, prepare evaluation reports in the Bank's standard
evaluation formats, and submit all procurement documents to the PCT. MDK-UM will simultaneously notify the



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 20
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                            Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Bank about sending draft bidding documents and bid evaluation reports to the PCT in order to expedite the
process of review. All procurement documents (draft bidding documents and bid evaluation reports), including
prequalification documents for the ICB package for the demolition of buildings, will be subject to the Bank's
prior review. The PCT and Bank will complete these reviews within 10 working days of their receipt, and
provide their comments or approval no later than the 10th day. In case the PCT does not find these documents
satisfactory, it will convey the reasons for their dissatisfaction to MDK-UM within 10 working days of their
receipt. All other procurement documents and procedures will be subject to the Bank's ex-post review on a
random basis.
Disbursement
The proposed Project is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years. The completion date is
expected to be June 30, 2002, and closing date December 31, 2002. Reimbursement will be the only method of
disbursement. This is feasible because of the existence of a US$25 million escrow account established as part of
the sale agreement between the PA and UM.
All invoices and applications for release of funds submitted by MDK-UM to the escrow account will be
converted into US$ using the BNB fixing rate on the day when invoices are submitted to the Escrow Agent. The
Escrow Agent will make payments to MDK-UM in US$. MDK-UM will pay its suppliers after converting the
US$ amount received from the Escrow Agent into currencies of the invoices using the most beneficial exchange
rate on the date of payments to contractors and suppliers. MDK-UM will submit to the PCT evidence of
payments in US$.
The PCT will verify the compliance of expenditures and invoices with financial, procurement, and
technical requirements, and will prepare a withdrawal application to be submitted to the World Bank for
disbursement of 80% of local and 100% of foreign costs of eligible expenditures excluding customs duties and
local transportation costs. No withdrawal applications will be submitted for amounts less than US$250,000.
All disbursements against contracts for goods and works exceeding US$1,000,000 equivalent will be
fully documented. For expenditures below this level, disbursements will be made against Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) for goods and works for which copies of documents evidencing expenditures will be
reviewed and kept by the PCT, and made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision missions.
After approving the claim, the World Bank will make a dollar transfer to the escrow account for the appropriate
amount.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                     Page 21
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                          Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Table A: Project Costs of the Bank-financed Component by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                        Procurement Method                          Total Cost
ICB          NCB          Other       N.B.F.
Component 1.                                                              4.00              4.00
Component I.
Works
Old site clean-up/'solid         8.7          0.5                                          9.2
waste                            (6)          (0.4)                                       (6.4)
Slime pond                       3.9                                                       3.9
(2.7)                                                    (2.7)
Fayalite tailings disposal                    0.6                                          0.6
(0.4)                                       (0.4)
Slag dump rehabilitation                       1.5                                         1.5
(1)                                         (1)
Residue storage                               0.9                                         0.9
(0.7)                                       (0.7)
Works Subtotal                    12.6          3.5                                         16.1
(8.7)        (2.5)                                       (11.2)
Gods
Slime pond                      4.9                                                       4.9
(4.8)                                                    (4.8)
Goods Subtotal                     4.9                                                       4.9
(4.8)                                                    (4.8)
Component 11. Subtotal            17.5          3.5                                         21.0
(13.5)        (2.5)                                      (16.0)
totaW                             17.5          3.5                        4.0              25.0
(13.5)        (2.5)                                      (16.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan
Costs include contingencies
ICB = International Competitive Bidding
NCB = National Competitive Bidding
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 22
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                     Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value             Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)                Method                 Prior Review
1. Works
US$1 Million or more             ICB                      All
Prequalification
documents
for demolition of
buildings
<US$1 Million                NCB                       All
2. Goods                  US$I Million or more              ICB                      All
<US$1 Million                NCB                       All
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                 Amount in US$million    % of Expenditure to be
Financed
Works                                                        11.2                80% of local
expenditures, 100% of
foreign expenditures
Goods                                                        4.8                 80% of local
expenditures, 100% of
foreign expenditures
Total           16.0
The Bank loan will finance US$16 million of the total cost (US$ 21 million) of the second component of the project.
For this component of the project, the loan proceeds will cover 76% of all expenditures. For the whole project, the loan
proceeds represent 70% of the costs of all works and 54% of all goods.



Table D. Quarterly Bank Disbursement Schedule                                                             'S ,
Years ending December 31
US$ '000                                                                                 a
1998                            1999                 |             2000                              2001                Total
Q    Q2   Q3                                                       Q4 12 199    QJ    Q2                                   2001   1998-
total                             total    -                   -    total      I                     total   2001
Old site/solid   0    0   85   85    170  248.9  248.9 1022.4  1022.4  2542.5  878.3   935   935  935 3683.3  876.3  529.5        0    0 1405.8  7875.6
waste
Slime pond       0    0  132  308    440  651.3   700   700    700 2751.4   700  12321  792 740.8 3464.8  686.4  295.6    66    0  1048   7741.3
Fayalite tailings   0    0    0    0      0    6.3   6.5  20.1   20.6   53.5  20.6   6.8   6.8  6.8    41    6.8            0     0    0    6.8   101.2
Residue storage    0    0    0  14.9   14.9  138.6  138.6            0  277.2       0     0      0    0      0      0       0     0    0       0      292
Slag dump        0    0    0    0         0    5.8   5.8  11.6   11.6   34.7  13.2  13.2  10.5  10.5  47.4  10.5    8.5            0    0     19      102
Total            O    0  217 407.9  624.9 1050.9 1099.8 1754.1  1754.6 5659.3 1612.1  2187 1744.3 1693 7236.5  1580   833.6    66    0 2479.6  16000.
UQ
0
a
:5
Z
a
w



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 24
Country: RepublicofBulgaria                                       ProjectTitle: EnvironmentalRemediationPilotProject (ERPP)
Annex 7
Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                  Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
358.8                  328.1
B. Project Schedule                         Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project              12                    18
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)         03/12/96              03/12/1996
Appraisal mission departure               09/22 /1997             09/22/1997
Negotiations                                02/1998               03/04/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness             08/31/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Environment and Waters
Preparation assistance: N/A
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Spyros Margetis (Senior Environmental
Specialist, Task Team Leader), Kristalina Georgieva (Senior Environmental Economist),
Gordon Hughes (Senior Advisor), Magda Lovei (Environmental Economist), Adriana
Damianova (Projects Officer), Naushad Khan (Procurement Specialist), Hans-Roland
Lindgren (Senior Environmental Specialist).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 25
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                     Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Annex 8
Bulgaria
Environmental Remediation Pilot Project
Documents in the Project File*
A.    Project Implementation Plan
Prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources
B.    Bank Staff Assessments
Peer Reviewer comments
Comments on the lEA by ECSRE
Clearance of the EIA by ECSRE
C.    Other
"Environmental Impact Assessment of the MDK JS Company Copper Smelter Complex". Prepared for
Union Miniere by Hatch Associates. August, 1997
Annexes: Technical support documents:    1. Air emissions
2. Effluent treatment and solid disposal
3. Environmental assessment of solid wastes and
ground conditions
4. Existing slime pond.
5. Fayalite tailings disposal
6. Old slag dump rehabilitation
7. Results of drilling and Chemical Testing
Cost Estimate for the Clean-up of the MDK JS Company Copper Smelter
Complex
"Review of the Past Environmental Damage Mitigation Plan for MDK Pirdop Copper Smelter". Prepared by
Erik Solbu AB, in cooperation with Povvik EP Ltd. and ET Ekosistem. September, 1997.
"Decision on EIA #59-19/1997". Republic of Bulgaria. Ministry of Environment and Waters. September 9,
1997.
"Environmental Assessment of the Impact of Emissions from the Pirdop Copper Smelter on Soils in the
Pirdop and Zlatitsa Region". Prepared by Balkan Science and Education Centre of Ecology and
Environment for the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources. January, 1997.
Record of Proceedings: public discussion on the EIA for MDK in Pirdop, September 8, 1997.
Record of Proceedings: public discussion on the EIA for MDK in Zlatitsa, September 8, 1997.
Ministry of Environment and Water Resources. Record of Proceedings No. 19. : Higher Experts Ecology
Council on the EIA of MDK
*Including electronic files.



Status of Bank Group Operations in Bulgaria
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference Between
expected                                   m
original Amount in US$ Millions                  and actual              Last ARPP
Loan or   Fiscal                                                                                                          disbursements a/   Supervision Rating b/
Project ID    Credit    Year            Borrower                 Purpose
No.                                                                IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed   Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj    Imp Prog
Number of Closed Loans/credits: 6
Actiye Loans
BG-PE-8307    IBRD 33840  1991  REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA  TA REFORM                        17.00        0.00            0.00           5.73     5.75        0.00      U             S
BG-PE-8322    IBRD 35920  1993  GOVT. OF BULGARIA         TELECOMMUNICATION            30.00        0.00            0.00           9.25     8.90        0.00       s            s
BG-PE-8316    IBRD 35630  1993                            ENERGY                       93.00        0.00            0.00          58.71    58.72        0.00       S            S
BG-PE-8319    IBRD 37390  1994  GOVT. OF BULGARIA         WATER COMPANIES REST         98.00        0.00           41.00          49.36    38.87       11.31      S            U
BG-PE-8318    IBRD 40000  1996  GOVT. OF BULGARIA         HEALTH SECTOR RESTRU         26.00        0.00            0.00          23.26    12.15        0.00       S           U
BG-PE-8315    IBRD 39220  1996  BDZ                       RAILWAY REHABILITATI         95.00        0.00            0.00          55.59   25.61         0.00       S           S
BG-PE-8323    IBRD 40810  1997  MOF                       SOCIAL INSUR. ADMIN.         24.30        0.00            0.00          23.25     7.99        0.00       S            S
BG-PE-49531   IBRD 42390  1998  REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA  FESAL I                         100.00        0.00            0.00         100.00     0.00        0.00
Total                                                                                 483.30        0.00           41.00         325.15  157.99        11.31
Active Loans         Closed-1oans           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                117.15              459.10             576.25
of which has been repaid:                  7.23              31.29               38.52
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                435.07              427.81             862.88
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :0.00                                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :              325.15                0.00             325.15
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.                                                                                           m
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory,  -
HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
0
0.
0
<0
0
*0
E0
4 B
_ '



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                    Page 27
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                                                 Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Bulgaria at a glance                                                             8/28/97
Europe & Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-
Bulgaria     Asia  Income       Development diamond'
Population mid-1996 (million.s)                        8.4      479    1,125
GNP per capita 1996 (US$)                            1,I90     2,180    1,750
GNP 1996 (billions US$)                               10.0     1,043    1,967
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                        -0.7       0.3      1.4      GNP                             Gross
Labor forre (%)                                       -0.6       0.5      1.8     P.,                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                           capita                       enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban population (% of total population)               71        65       56
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       71        68       67
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               15        26       41               Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                  ..        ..       78
Illiteracy (% of populaton age 15+)                     B. ..              ..
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age popubton)    86         97      104               Bulgana
Male                                                 88        97      105                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               84        97      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1995     1996
GDP (billions US$)                             ..    17.6       12.9      9.3
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                  ..    32.2       14.0     11.4             Opennessoferonomy
E-xports of goods & non-factor services/GDP    ..    42.8       52.4     67.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..    31.8       16.5     14.9
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..    31.7       13.9     12.7
Current account balance/GDP                    ..    -0.8       -0.5      1.3
Interest payments/GDP                          ..      1.2       4.0      5.2     Savings    F             I  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..    21.9       74.3     98.6
Total debt service/exports                     ..      9.9      18.0     15.7
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..      79.7
Present value of debt/exports                 ..        ..    147.6                           Indebtedness
1976-85  1986-96    1995       1996  1997-OS
(average annual growth)                                                         |           Bulgadia
GDP                                   ..    -3.4      2.1      -10.9      2.2
GNP per capita                       ..    -2.6       -2.0     -10.7      21                Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods & non-factor servic  .,   -19.4     23.4       -9.5      4.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1985      1995     1996
(% Of GDP)                                                                        Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
Agriculture                                    ..    11.9        9.8     10.3     '
Industry                                      ..    62.5        33.6     33.6      n ---it.-.--
Manufacturing                                ..        .         ..-
Services                                        ,    25.6       56.6     56.1    .20
Private consumption                            ..    59.8       69.6     72.7    .40
General government consumption                  .      8.5      13.9     12.3
Imports of goods & non-factor services               43.2       50.3     63.8                     0GD    ---GDP
1975-86  1986-96      1996     1996     --
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                           -2.6      -1.0     -7.0     so
Industry                                      ..    -5.1         0.0   -10.9      25
Manufacturing                                ..       ..        .,       ..                    /
Services                                       ..    -1.1        6.7    -13.1 t
Private consumption                           ..    -3.7        -2.5     -3.9     |s            2
General govemment consumption                  ..      4.2     -14.1    -11.1    -50
Gross domestic investment                      ..   -13.6        2.0    -30.1    |75
Imports of goods & non-factor services         ..   -23.5       16.8     -5.5                       t
Grossnationalproduct                           ..    -3.4       -2.3    -11.3
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared wih its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.                                                                                            m:Abul\fesalii\ANNX10.PAD



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                     Page 28
Country: Republic of Bulgaria                                                                 Project Title: Environmental Remediation Pilot Project (ERPP)
Bulgaria
PRICES and GOViERNMENT FINANCE
1976     198C      1996     1996   '         '
Domestic priees                                                                 rInflation (%)
(% change)                                                                        300
Consumer prices                                ,,       ..      62.6    123.0    A00
Implicit GOP deflator                         ..       0.2      63.0    115.0    200
Government finance                                                              |
(% of GDP)                                  |                                         a -            .,..,
Current revenue                               ..    55.2        36.1    33.7   !          91   92   93   94   as   96
Current budget balanre                         .,      9.2      -4.6    -10.4                    GDPde.  C PI
Overall surplus/defcit                         ..       ..      -5.7    -11.0
TRADE
1975     1985      1995     1996
(miDlons US$)                                                                   1 Export and Import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                            ,,  10,688      5,344    4,881     6,000
Other metals                                 ..   2,125      1,145    1,238
Other agriculture                            ..    1,791     1,266    1,326     45000
Manufactures                                  .        .         .
Total imnpoTts (cit)                           .. 11,199       5,224    4,673
Food                                         ..     545      1,181    1,056     2.00U 0 
Fuel and energy                                    2.217     1 285    1 150
Capital goods                                 .. 452         2,220    1,8
Export price index (1987=100)                 ..      112       105       107           90  91  92  93  94  9s  96
Import price index (1987=100)                 ..       66       143      137   ,lExports   rIplmports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                      ..     169        73       78
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    1986       1996    1996
(milElons US$)                                                                    Current account balance to GOP rauo (%)
Exports of goods & non-factor services         ..  11,761      6,774    6,276      s
Imports of goods & non-factor services         ..  11,872      6.496    5,954        I
Resource balance                               ..   -112        27e      '22
Net income                                     ..   -101       344.9    -375         jo             T9 [-4; 94       9
Net currenttransfers                           .       74       132       170       f -         | j     I
Current account balance,                                                                          .
before official capitaltransfers                    -139       -59      117
Financing items (net)                         ..    562         307      -881
Changes in net reserves                       ..   -423         -248     764      -u5
Memo:
Reserves induding gold (mill. US$)            ..       ..    1,545       781
Conversion rate (local/US$)                   ..       1.9      67,2    177.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1995     1996   I
(milbions USS)                                                                  ,ComposItIon of total debt, 1996 (mill. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           .    3,852      9,597    9,198
IBRD                                        ''        0       444      453                    G   A      C
IDA                                          ..       0         0        0                   596453
Totaldebtservice                               ..   1,178      1,135    1,327                                 455
IBRD                                                  0        31       43
IDA                                          ..       0         0        0                                    E
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               17\
Official grants                             ,,        0        19        0
Offlcial creditors                          ..       74         5       27
Private creditors                            ..    887        -214    -401            F
Foreign direct investment                   ,.        0        82      100          5398.3
Portfolio equity                            ,,        0         5
World Bank program
Commitments                                  ..       0        193      80       A- tBRO                    E - Btlatera
Disbursements                               ..        0        15       52       8-IDA    D- Other mulilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..        0         0       13      C-IMF                       G0- Short-term
Netflows                                     ..       0         15      40    i
Interest payments                           ..        0        31       30
Net transfers                                ..       0        -16       10
Development Economics                                                                                              8/28197
m:\buNesaliMANNX1 O.PAD



