Report No. PID5605
Project Name              Bulgaria-Environmental Liability Pilot Project (#)
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       BGPA33965
Borrower                         Republic of Bulgaria
Implementation Agency            MDK-UM 2070 Pirdop, Bulgaria,
Mr. Alexander Alexandrov,
Executive Director,
Tel.: 359-7181-5717;
Tel/fax. 359-2/872-269.
Date PID Prepared                Aug 10, 1997
Projected Appraisal              September, 1997
Projected Board Date             December, 1997
Background
Bulgaria is one of the poorest countries of Central Europe with a
population of 8.6 million. The country began its transition from
centrally planned to a market economy at the end of the 1980s.
Despite progress in some areas, however, structural reforms
necessary to underpin macroeconomic stabilization were not pursued
vigorously; and the socialist and coalition governments failed to
adequately address the deteriorating economic situation. Mass
privatization of state-owned industry moved slowly, and the
majority of large industrial enterprises remained in public
ownership. Additionally, Bulgaria's external financial position
deteriorated sharply. In light of the amounting public
dissatisfaction and economic crisis, the socialist government
stepped down replaced by a caretaker government in early 1997. The
new government has introduced serious reforms including the
establishment of a currency board and the acceleration of
Bulgaria's privatization program.
Besides economic difficulties, Bulgaria has to deal with serious
environmental problems such as localized industrial "hot spots";
and inadequate environmental management at large industrial
enterprises. Bulgaria's National Environmental Action Plan (FY93)
and its recent update (FY95) have identified key priority areas to
which environmental action will have to be focused such as: (i)
reduction of lead and other heavy metals from the environment; (ii)
mitigation of particulate emissions; (iii) abatement of sulfur
dioxide and other irritant gases; (iv) water resource management
and protection of drinking water; and (v) forestry management.
Progress has been made in addressing the problems of specific
emission sources, and improving the effectiveness of the
Government's environmental management. Overall pollution levels
have fallen during the past years, however, there is concern that
environmental conditions may deteriorate again as industrial growth



resumes, especially if environmental issues are not addressed
properly in the privatization of large polluting industrial
enterprises. The project would address several of the priority
environmental issues identified in the National Environmental
Action Plan and its update, such as the reduction of heavy metal
contamination around industrial plants; protection of drinking
water in order to improve present and future environmental
conditions; and support of improved environment management of
industrial enterprises.
Project Objectives
The main objective of the proposed pilot project is to support the
Government of Bulgaria (GOB) in (i) reducing environmental hazards
caused by past pollution at MDK Copper Smelter (MDK); (ii)
facilitating improvements in the environmental performance of the
plant; and (iii) enabling the privatization of MDK by reducing
uncertainties and concerns of strategic investors about
environmental liability issues. The project is envisaged to become
a model for addressing past environmental damage and environmental
liabilities in the process of privatization.
Project Description
The project consists of the following components:
(i) Emergency clean-up of immediate environmental hazards
This component would focus on a lagoon which has been used to store
semi-liquid wastes from the smelter and is, thus, heavily
contaminated with arsenic and other heavy metals. The lagoon is
both full and leaking, and there are concerns about its stability.
An accident would cause the wastes in the lagoon discharge into
rivers that flow directly into the Topolnitsa reservoir which
serves as the main source of drinking water for Plovdiv and other
large towns in the Maritsa valley. This component would (i) ensure
temporary stabilization of the dam to prevent accidents; (ii)
create a temporary solid vase disposal facility; and (iii)
establish a safe process waste generation and storage mechanism.
(ii) Clean-up of critical past environmental damage
This component of the project would address a range of
environmental problems caused by past operations of the plant which
threaten the health of workers, populations surrounding the plant,
and the contamination of groundwater. It will focus on (i)
providing final solution to the old slime pond; (ii) ameliorating
the slag tailings; (iii) reinforcing the residue storage area; (iv)
disposing solid waste and soil contaminated by historic operations;
(v) closing the old slag dump; (v) covering with clay and earth of
all excavated areas, slag tailings, slag dump and slime pond to
prevent erosion and dust emission.
(iii) Addressing occupational health liabilities
This component would assist the GOB in compensating, on a voluntary
basis, previous and current employees of MDK who have become
partially or fully distabled according to Bulgarian occupational
-2 -



health standards as a result of their past exposure to hazardous
materials and processes at the plant.
Project benefits
Project benefits will derive from improved environmental quality
and reduced present and future health risks in the neighborhood of
the plant due to the clean-up of critical environmental hazards;
and improvement in the environment performance of the plant under
private management. Additionally, the project facilitates the sale
of majority ownership of MDK leading to changes in management and
significant investments undertaken by the new owner, which are
expected to improve efficiency and profitability of the company,
and contributing to increased budgetary revenues and benefits to
the entire population of Bulgaria.
Project financing
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 25 million.
Approximately 68% of the cost is expected to be financed by the
proposed IBRD loan; 20% by the Government of Bulgaria; and 12% by
the National Eco-Trust Fund. The proposed IBRD loan would be lent
to the Republic of Bulgaria at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate for a 15 year term including 5 years of grace on
repayment of the principal. Repayment of the loan will be financed
from the general budget of the GOB based on revenues generated by
privatization. Parts of the IBRD loan may be used for retroactive
financing of emergency works.
Project implementation
The project is expected to be implemented in four years.
Implementation of the emergency clean-up of immediate environmental
hazards component of the project will start immediately after the
privatization agreement was concluded. Preparation of a detailed
project implementation plan is underway by MDK-UM.
The Ministry of Environment (MOE), as the Government's
representative for the loan, would have overall responsibility for
the implementation of the project. The MOE would delegate its
responsibilities to the National Eco-Trust Fund (NETF) for project
coordination and to MDK-UM for the technical execution of the project.
An Oversight Committee -- including representatives of the
Ministries of Environment (MOE), Finance and Industry;
Privatization Agency; NGOs; and Pirdop Municipality -- under the
leadership of the MOE will oversee the overall implementation of
the project and provide guidance.
Project sustainability
The environmental assessment of MDK identifies measures to address
issues of past pollution, as well as measures and investments to
improve the environmental performance of the company and bring it
into compliance with Bulgarian and international environmental
- 3-



norms, standards and good practices. The privatization of MDK by an
internationally reputable company which has raised environmental
issues during the privatization process; and the commitment of the
MOE to oversee the project and require compliance with
environmental regulations provide a good indication for the
sustainability of environmental improvements. Participation of EBRD
and, potentially the European Investment Bank, in the company's
future plans provides further assurances that the project will be
implemented, and ongoing operations of the plant will comply with
Bulgarian and international environmental requirements.
Strong commitment has been expressed to address environmental
liability issues in the privatization process by the Ministry of
Environment (MOE), Ministry of Industry; and the Privatization
Agency. The MOE, in cooperation with the EU Phare Programme, has
supported training of staff and environmental consultants; and
established an approval system of environmental consultants to
prepare environmental impact assessments, audits, and management
plans for enterprises under privatization. The MOE requires the
preparation of environmental audits of major industrial enterprises
to establish the extent of the environmental damage and potential
liabilities caused by their operations; and recommended measures to
address existing environmental problems.
During project preparation, regular inter-governmental meetings
have been organized by the MOE to discuss controversial issues, and
coordinate among a range of Government agencies.
Project risks
Main risks of the project derive from (i) the possibility that
measures undertaken by the project may not lead to long-term
improvements in the plant's environmental performance; and (ii)
delays which may occur in implementation due to unresolved problems
in procurement and slow approval of work and disbursement of funds
to the Implementing Agent; and (iii) cost overruns during
implementation. The project and its implementation plan was
designed to minimize these risks.
Lessons learned from past operations
This project is the first of its kind in Bulgaria and the region.
[Note: Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed
by the Bank and other development agencies.]The most relevant
lessons are those learned from privatization in a range of
developing countries. A recent review of the privatization of large
entities with significant environmental impact has concluded that
privatization generally contributed to improved environmental
performance, but also pointed out that incentives should require
and reward such improvements; and government commitment and
capacity to ensure the effectiveness of such incentives should be
in place at the time of privatization. Therefore, in order to
systematically address environmental issues in the privatization
process, the project establishes an mechanism of inter-agency
oversight and consultation under the leadership of the MOE
including the Ministries of Finance and Industry, the Privatization
- 4 -



Agency and other affected. The project also builds on technical
assistance provided by the EU Phare Program to systematically
evaluate the adequacy of privatization bids from environmental
viewpoint, and to build local capacity in carrying out
environmental assessments and audits.
The experience of other CEE countries in dealing with environmental
issues during privatization have been also considered. Such
experience has shown that the lack of clarity and agreement about
environmental liabilities and obligations increases the risks of
investors and leaves serious environmental problems unresolved.
Additionally, leaving the clean-up of past pollution to the new
owner and reimbursing such expenditures after the sale of
enterprises may result in excessive costs for clean-up, and
tensions between the Government and the new owners. The ELPP,
therefore, supports the principle of Government liability for past
environmental damage and provides an independent evaluation of
necessary measures and their costs.
Poverty category
N/A
Environmental aspects
The project was designed to address environmental problems at MDK,
one of the most polluting enterprises in Bulgaria, by implementing
the environmental damage mitigation plan for the plant recommended
by a detailed environmental impact assessment (EIA). Preparation of
the plan has built on numerous environmental studies, assessments,
and an audit of the company, and it has been carried out according
to World Bank and Bulgarian requirements for environmental
assessment (EA). Public information has started in June, and the
project description was made available for public consultation in
July. Broad public consultations were carried out in Pirdop and
Zlatitsa municipalities. The project was assigned environmental
category A.
Project processing timetable
Negotiations are tentatively scheduled for October, 1997 and Board
Presentation for December, 1997.
Contact Point:           Spyros Margetis, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-2505
Fax No.: (202) 477-1386
- 5 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending September 26, 1997.
- 6 -



