Docsumt of
The World Bank
FOR OFICtAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4283-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 43.3 MILLION
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
April 10, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS a/
Currency Unit                  Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00               =       US$ 0.0609
US$ 1.00               =       TSh 16.415
US$ 1.00               =       SDR 0.87
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB       =      African DevelopmenL Bank
DANIDA            Danish InLernational Development Agency
EAC        =      EaSL African CommuniLy
MCW        -      Ministry of Communications and Works
MOE        =      MinisLry of Education
NCC        =      National Construction Council
NTC        =      National Transport CorporaLion
TANZAM     =      Tanzania-Zambia Highway
TAZARA     =      Tanzania-Zambia Railways
THA        =      Tanzania Harbours Authority
TRC        =      Tanzania Railways Corporation
TRM        =      Truck Road Maintenance
voc        =      vehicle operating costs
vpd        =      vehicLes per day
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIV
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
a/  As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation Lo a basket
of the curren4ies of Tanzania's trading parLners, the USDollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subjecL to change. Conversions in this
reporL were made at the rate in effecL in February 1986.



TANZANIA            FOR OFFXCIAL USE ONLY
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             United Republic of Tanzania.
Beneficiaries:        The Ministry of Communications and Works, Ministry of
Education, National Construction Council, and the
National Transport Corporation.
Credit Amount:        SDR 43.3 million (US$50 million equivalent).
Terms:                Standard.
Cofinancing:          The United Republic of Tanzania is arranging
cofinancing as follows: grants from the Governments
of Denmark (US$2 million equivalent) and Norway
(US$6.9 million equivalent); and a loan from the
African Development Bank (US$19.4 million equiva-
lent).
ProJect ObJectives    The project would initiate a program to help reduce
and Benefits:       transport as a constraint facing the Tanzanian
economy through rehabilitation of the most important
sections of the highway network. The deteriorated
state of the Tanzanian highway system is a serious
bottleneck to agricultural production in particular.
Given the importance of the agriculture sector and
the key role that agriculture plays in the country's
economy, an efficient transportation system is
vital. The project would reduce the cost of opera-
tion of road transport, both freight and passengers,
increase its reliability, speed up its flow, and
provide all weather use of the priority sections of
the gravel road network. An important objective of
the project is to improve the system of road mainten-
ance by encouraging the Ministry of Communications
and Works (MCW) to carry out major maintenance and
rehabilitation works by contract rather than by force
account. It would also help support more efficient
and effective road transport policies, provide
assistance to expand the capacity and efficiency of
the trucking industry, increase the capabilities of
the local contracting industry, strengthen MCW, snd
increase the availability of trained engineers in
Tanzania.
Project Description:  The project comprises the following components:
ti) a road rehabilitation program consisting of the
rehabilitation of several high priority sections of
the Tanzania-Zambia (TANZAM) highway amounting to
about 295 kms, and 700-1,000 kms of primary gravel
roads, (ii) a highway equipment rehabilitation
Thi dcummnt has a atrktdistuibution und my be ud by reipients only in the pefformane
o their oekSiu dutieasl.s contens may not oth-ew  be dibucd without World Bank authoiaton.



- ii -
program, (iii) a maintenance spares supply program to
the trucking industry, (iv) technical assistance to
the local contracting industry, (v) technical
assistance and consulting services for construction
supervision, an agricultural feeder roads study,
feasibility studies and detailed engineering, and
(vi) training.
Risks:                 The main risks are institutional.  MCW's own mainten-
ance capability, as well as that of the domestic con-
tractors who are expected to participate under the
project, may develop more slowly than anticipated;
however, the project would ensure a continuing supply
of trained manpower to MCW and encourage a policy of
executing periodic maintenance and rehabilitation
works by contract (with technical assistance and
training to the local contracting industry), thus
allowing MCW to concentrate its efforts on routine
maintenance. Implementation of the gravel roads
rehabilitation program may be slower than expected.
This risk is minimized by annually reviewing the
program to identify both technical and financial
problems and the means to resolve them in a timely
fashion.
Estimated Project Costs:                          Local   Foreign      Total
- ~-US$ millions- -
Project Components:
Road Rehabilitation                          21.2     42.2         63.4
Equipment Rehabilitation                      0.3      3.9          4.2
Assistance to the
Trucking Industry                          0.1       6.2         6.3
Technical Assistance to MCW                  0.1       1.1          1.2
Training                                      0.6      5.3          5.9
Technical Assistance to Local
Contracting Industry                       0.4       1.4          1.8
Other Consulting Services                    0.2       1.3          1.5
Base Cost                                   22.9      61.5         84.4
Contingencies:
Physical                                      1.6      4.4          6.0
Price                                         4.9     12.4         17.3
6.5     16.8         23.3
Total Project Cost a/                     29.4      78.3       107.7
_          - 
a/ Identifiable taxes and duties amount to US$7.6 million equivalent and
the total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is about US$100.1
million equivalent.



- iil -
Financing Plan:                                     Local   Foreign       Total
-:--  US$ millions--
Sources:
IDA                                              -      50.0          50.0
AfDB                                             -      19.4          19.4
Denmark                                          -        2.0          2.0
Norway                                           -       6.9           6.9
Government                                     29.4       -           29.4
Total                                        29.4     78.3        107.7
-          _m
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year          87     88       89       90      91       92
-- - -----US  millions--                 -
Annual              6.5   12.6    12.6    10.0        6.6      1.7
Cumulative          6.5   19.1    31.7    41.7    48.3    50.0
Economic Rate of Return:   About 38%
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 5922-TA, dated April 2, 1986
map:                         IBRD No. 1909111



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 43.3 million (US$50.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Sixth Highway
(Rehabilitation) Project. In addition, the United Republic of Tanzania is
arranging cofinancing from the Governments of Denmark and Norway, and the
African Development Bank.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 5019-TA), based on
the work of an economic mission which visited the country in September/
October 1983, was issued in August 1984. Subsequently, economic missions
have visited the country in September and December 1985. A Country
Economic Memorandum based on the findings of these missions is currently
under preparation. A Summary of Social and Economic Data is in Annex I.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania was one of the poorest
countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence agriculture
and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest industrial base,
which accounted for less than 5% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and a
very small number of educated and trained personnel. For the first six
years after Independence, the Government's development objectives resembled
those of many other less developed countries, stressing growth in per
capita income and national self-sufficiency in skilled manpower, based on
market forces and capital intensive agricultural projects. This approach
has a number of drawbacks, such as high investment costs in the agricul-
tural sector.  It led, in the Government's view, to unacceptable economic
and social conditions, such as widening income differentials and unequal
opportunities for advancement in the rural areas. In response to this
situation, the national development strategy was reassessed in 1967. The
new priorities, enunciated in the Arusha Declaration and related policy
statements, were directed toward establishing a socialist socierv, with
emphasis on broad-based rural development, self-reliance in development
efforts, and mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with
guidance from the Party, was expected to play the leading role, especially
in the reform and creation of appropriatc institutions. This led in the
late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and
finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of
Ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of Government (1972),
and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).
I/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially similar to the
corresponding parts of the President's Report for the Power
Rehabilitation Project being circulated about the same time as this
report.



- 2-
4.        Dcspite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements boLh in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance. Since Independence,
primary school enrollment increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose
by almost 5 years, and access to safe water increased in both the rural and
urban areas. GDP grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment
averaged 24% of CDP from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization
improved with recurrent revenues rising as a proportion of GDP from 15% in
1967/68 to 192 in the mid-1970s. However, the productive sectors grew
slowly and the rate of return on new investments (which were concentrated
on the industry and transport sectors) was poor. Perhaps the principal
disappointment was in agriculture, the dominant sector of the economy,
which grew by only 2.3% per annum from 1966 to 1973. Growth was also
uneven among regions and precluded any narrowing of rural-urban income
differentials. Tanzania made rapid progress toward the Africanization of
key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower requirements
remained. Dependence on foreign aid to finance both domestic investment
and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By 1973, the
issues that were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the later 1970s
and early 1980s were becoming clear. How quickly could a country with
limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? How long could the country afford the costs, in
terms of efficiency and incentives, often resulting from the Government's
emphasis on equity? What could be done to improve the growth rate of the
monetized, prcductive sectors?
5.        The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania, which had a detri-
mental effect on agricultural production. Agricultural production also was
affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this time (decentrali-
zation and villagization), and foodgrain production was reduced. The
Government was forced into the world market, making large purchases of
foodgrains for cash. Export crop production also fell during this period
and the barter terms of trade dropped by about one-third during these two
years. As a result, the currenL account deficit rose from US$118 million
in 1973 to around USS340 million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the
recurrent budget fell into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from
TSh 416 million in 1973/74 to TSh 1,061 million in 1975/76.
6.        The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and received some assistance from the IMF
and a program loan from the Bank Group. Under the Government program,
import levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government devel-
opment expenditures were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substantially increased and, at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize. While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC, and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to markeL forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls. The



- 3 -
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted -- declining export volumes,
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and produc-
tive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and infra-
structure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance, and reasoD.A4e weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance unyfl 1978.
During 1978, Lhe overly stringent import controls were reLAxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of
payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979, and the flooding and drought in
different parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments
deficit. The Government built up major arrears on its import payments for
the first time since Independence. The domestic budget fell heavily into
deficit as expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% and revenues improved
by only 10% from 1977/78 to 1978/79. As a result, Government borrowing
from the banking system increased from TSh 600 million in 1977/78 to more
than TSh 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the major factor in
money supply growth, which exceeded 532 in this period.
8.        During the late-1970s and into the 1980s the economy became
troubled by major problems of falling production in agriculture and
industry and declining factor productivity. In the mid 1970s, average GDP
and per capita income growth rates were similar to those of other
Sub-Saharan African countries. The average GDP grew by 5.2% per annum
between 1970 and 1978. With population growing at 3.3% annually, per
capita GDP increased at an average rate of about 2% annually. Between 1978
and 1980, growth in aggregate output slowed to 3.3% per annum. In 1981,
falling agricultural and industrial production caused GDP to decline by
1.7%; the rate of decline accelerated to 3.2% in 1982. Since then there
has been some recovery, with the GDP growing between 2 to 3% per annum.
This has however, been hardly adequate to stem the decline in the living
standards of a population which continues to grow by 3.3% annually. Output
in subsistence agriculture and manufacturing, which had experienced high
growth rates of 6% to 7% per annum before 1978, fell by 8% and 16.6% per
annum respectively over the next four years, while output in the services
sector continued to grow steadily. The services sector, which accounted
for only 9% of value added in 1966, currently accounts for more than 25%.
Output in the services sector reflects remuneration rather than output, and
trends in subsistence production are at best guess-estimates with
potentially large margins of error. For these reasons, trends in the rate
of growth of GDP are in some doubt, but the shift away from a monetary to
an informal economy is confirmed by the decline in the share of output
marketed through official channels.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20-40% of domestic investment. However, the
dependence on foreign savings rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic
investment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The



major shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government
sector, where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975.
10.         Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 83% of total employment, 45% of GDP, and BOZ of exports.
The long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept
pace with population growth and apparently has fallen in more recent years
as the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s)
has been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by
the limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of
rural development has continuously been highlighted in Government state-
ments, including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not
always been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural
sector or in policy formulation and implementation.  The general direction
of the Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to
emphasize the transformation of the institutional structure of rural devel-
opment (through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement
in the sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production
directly. Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly,
without careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use incentives to influence the pattern of agricul-
tural production. Available manpower, however, is still stretched rather
thinly throughout the sector, mainly because of the predominant role
assigned to the public sector. This has resulted in weakened capacity for
policy planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other on-farm
supplies and equipment. Another factor underlying the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services. Road, rail,
and water services have declined owing to a lack of spare parts, poor main-
tenance, and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in agricultural production, transport bottle-
necks, and external shocks described above have all contributed to the
severe deterioration in the balance of payments since 1979. By 1985,
export volumes had fallen to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-
1960s and early 1970s. Furthermore, while terms of trade have improved by
about 5% in 1984/1985 over the previous two years, they remain nearly 40%
below the coffee boom years 1977-78. Owing to these adverse developments,
the purchasing power of Tanzania's exports in 1985 was more than one-third
lower than in 1977 and only one-half of the 1966 level. The basic adjust-
ment to the high current account deficits following the second oil shock
was through a cutback in imports. By 1985, import volumes were 23X below
the level in 1978-80 and 18% below the level prevailing in the early
1970s. Aid inflows have been maintained in nominal terms, which implies a
significant reduction in real terms. Currently, food, oil and debt service
account for almost all of export earnings resulting in a severe shortage of
foreign exchange for many categories of imports for which aid resources are
not available. As a result, Tanzania has built up almost US$400 million of
import arrears, and has drawn down all of its reserves.



- 5 -
12.       Even with the immediate encouraging prospects for coffee and oil
prices, given the limited scope for further external aid and at best a
sluggish export recovery, there is little immediate prospect for a dramatic
improvement in the balance of payments. This continuing balance of pay-
ments constraint is inevitably having a debilitating effect on the economy,
with lower imports reducing production and maintenance of existing assets,
resulting in further falls in exports and available foreign exchange. This
vicious circle will be difficult to break unless there is a substantial
injection of foreign exchange and major improvements in producer incen-
tives, parastatal operations, import allocations, promotion of non-
traditional exports, and overall government planning and budgeting.
13.       Following intensive discussions with the Government in 1980 and
1981, an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (Credit 1133-TA) in the
amount of US$50 million was negotiated in March 1981 to support a limited
but sharply defined set of measures intended to assist the Government in
arresting the decline in earnings from the country's major export crops.
During negotiations of this Program Credit, agreement was also reached on a
Memorandum of Understanding on Follow-Up Measures. These included more
restraint and selectivity in the public investment program, more emphasis
in the recurrent budget on the operations and maintenance needs of the
economy, improved foreign exchange budgeting, reexamination of the roles
(particularly purchasing mandates) of the State-owned crop authorities,
introduction of more payment-by-results schemes in industry, and review of
subsidy and cost recovery arrangements in the public sector. A special
agricultural account was established to channel imports into agriculture
with surprisingly little friction among the institutions concerned,
although the Government was not able to meet its own obligation to
contribute US$50 million to the account. The Government also agreed that
an independent Advisory Group would be established to assist in preparing a
comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982. A large number of its recommendations were adopted
by the Government and incorporated into a Structural Adjustment Program
(SAPs), which was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of
important initiatives and proposals. The development budget was substan-
tially cut back in 1982/83 for the second year in a row to release
resources for the operations and maintenance needs of the economy.
Agricultural producer prices were increased in 1982/83 and in 1983/84,
in line with inflation. The Government also announced its intention to
relax restrictions on interregional trade. It also opened up the marketing
of some crops (mainly minor grains such as millet) to anyone interested in
conducting such trade.
15.       In the 1984/85 budget suhtuitted to Parliament on June 14, 1984,
the Government announced a series of new measures. These measures included
an exchange rate adjustment (36%), the second in two years, an increase in
agricultural producer prices of between 46% and 55%, and an initiation of a
program to improve the efficiency and productivity of agricultural
parastatals. These pricing changes were sufficient to allow agricultural



- 6-
parastatals as a group to break even while resulting in an increase of 5%
in real incomes of export crop producers. -The budget also attempted to
make the NMC, the parastatal responsible for grain marketing, financially
viable through an increase in the consumer price for maize and a decontrol
of the price of maize flour (sembe). These measures together have elimina-
ted the budgetary transfers to the parastatals, which had amounted to
nearly 11% of total recurrent expenditures in 1982/83. The measures also
included politically sensitive actions such as the removal of subsidies on
fertilizer and insecticides and the introduction of fees for secondary
schools to cover a part of the costs.
16.       While the FY86 budget speech continued to emphasize liberaliza-
tion of economic activity and improvement of public sector efficiency, the
actual measures were disappointing. The increase in agriculture producer's
prices, 20% in nominal terms, fell short of the going inflation rate of
above 36% p.a. Also no exchange rate change was announced, creating the
possibility of increased deficits in the parastatal sector. On the
positive side, the budget offered a number of tax breaks to encourage
private business activity. The Government abolished the partnership tax
and export tax on timber and cardamom. The scope of foreign exchange
retention accounts was expanded to include imports of incentive goods, in
addition to recurrent inputs. Finally the scope and the coverage of the
own funded imports scheme was expanded considerably.
17.       The adjustment measures implemented by the Government so far have
been successful in stabilizing the budget deficit. This has paid off in
terms of reduction in the rate of growth of money supply and has resulted
in a deceleration of inflation towards end-1985. Improving the working of
the grain market has been reflected in improved food grain availability in
the country. On the other hand, the measures have not succeeded in
increasing the incentives for export crop production, nor correcting the
growing overvaluation of the shilling and removing the rigidities in the
market for foreign exchange. Furthermore, these measures have not been
sufficient to stimulate an increase in external assistance. The resulting
decline in real import capability has limited the efficacy of many of the
policy reforms and frustrated economic recovery.
18.       Tanzania has not had access to IMF facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Despite several rounds of discussions since 1982, no
agreement has been reached on a reform program. An IMF mission will visit
Tanzania in April 1986 for further discussions.
19.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will con-
tinue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next three to five years. A halt in the decline in per capita GDP
will require increasing amounLs of aid in real terms and a careful review
of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects with
long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs. Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes. To avoid
this situation, continued emphasis will be needed on export performance and
concerted effort will be required to improve the level of capacity utiliza-



tion and efficiency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without
jeopardizing vital food production.
20.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tanzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burden of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this assistance include deferred
payment arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying
countries, additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and multi-
lateral sources, and continued movement toward non-project assistance.
External Debt
21.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratios have historically been less than 102. In recent years,
there has been somewhat greater reliance on non-concessional borrowing.
This borrowing, combined with falling exports, has resulted in an increase
in the debt service ratio, which was estimated in 1984 to have been about
20%. The Bank Group is assisting the Government in carrying out a complete
review of its external debt and improving its debt management system. This
effort, which is still under way, has revealed that the reports on publicly
guaranteed debt are incomplete and projected debt service payments may rise
sharply as a number of old loans begin to fall due and coverage of the debt
information improves. Unless Tanzania's poor export performance is re-
versed, the debt service ratio over the next several years may be signifi-
cantly higher than indicated above. Based on existing data, the Bank Group
held 33% of Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed in 1984
(IBRD 10%) and obligations to the Bank Group accounted for 63% of total
debt service.
PART IT - BANK GROUP OPERATIQNS IN TANZANIA
22.       Tanzania joined the Bank, the Association, and the International
Finance Corporation in 1962. Beginning with an IDA credit for education in
1963, 60 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of these on Third Window terms,
amounting to US$1,134.5 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of 11 loans totalling US$244.8
million which were extended for the development of the common services and
development bank operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya, and Uganda through
their association in the former East African Community. IFC investments in
Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made to the Kilombero Sugar
Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties
and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to



- 8 -
the Government. Another IFC investment of US$1.7 million in soap manufac-
turing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors in June 1978, an
investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was approved in
May 1979 and in June 1984 an investment of US$3.2 million was approved for
the Amboni sisal rehabilitation project. Annex II contains summary state-
ments of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania as of
March 31, 1986.
23.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (i) agri-
culture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv) educa-
tion and manpower development. Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has been
focussed primarily on the rehabilitation and use of existing productive
facilities and the introduction of infrastructure and services (such as
power generation and education facilities) of long term use to the
economy. Projects have been designed to minimize new demands on the
Government's recurrent, development, and foreign exchange budgets; have
been centered on already experienced or financially healthy institutions;
and have been logistically insulated, as far as possible, from general
supply difficulties in the economy. They have included technical assist-
ance and training for better maintenance and use of existing capital
facilities and more effective resource allocation in the economy. Lending
during FY82-FY85 along these lines included a second petroleum exploration
project, a petroleum sector technical assistance project, third and fourth
technical assistance projects (focussed on key manpower gaps in the agri-
cultural sector), a rehabilitation project for the Dar es Salaam sewerage
system, a coal engineering project, a hydroelectric power project, and a
port rehabilitation project.
24.       A small number of other projects may be proposed in the agricul-
tural, industrial and transport sectors during the next three years. A
power rehabilitation/energy project, involving rehabilitation of power
generation, distribution and transmission, is being submitted simultane-
ously with this one, and agriculture and industrial rehabilitation projects
are under preparation. However, the design and implementation of viable
projects including new investments in the productive sectors of the
economy, especially agriculture and industry, will remain problematical in
the absence of a wide-ranging economic adjustment program. In addition to
financing specific projects, the Bank Group has provided non-project
assistance on three occasions in support of Government efforts to deal with
its balance of payments difficulties. The first such credit was made in
1974, the second in 1977, and the most recent, an Export Rehabilitation
Program Credit (No. 1133-TA), in April 1981. A rehabilitation program
credit designed to provide import support to key sectors for economic
recovery is under preparation and will be appraised when the Government
completes a satisfactory economic adjustment program.
25.       Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last six years, first by the disruptions of the Uganda War and
then by the country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties which have
resulted in shortages of fuel and building materials even when budgetary
allocations for such purchases have been adequate. In addition, domestic
policies have weakened the capacity of the agricultural sector to fulfill
its traditional functions effectively. External financing agencies have
been increasing the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs



- 9 -
covered by project budgets; however, it is impossible to cushion projects
completely, particularly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the
economic crisis. Bank Group disbursements grew from US$58 million in FY78
to US$115.9 million in FY82 and then declined to US$53.3 million in FY85.
A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region indicates
that Tanzanian disbursements have been about average for the Region, rang-
ing as a proportion of outstanding commitments from 25.5% in FY78 to 19.9%
in FY85 (compared with 24.5% and 19.7% in the same years for the Region as
a whole).
26.       Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
inplementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank Group staff
agreed to recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several
projects experiencing persistent implementation problems. Intensive super-
vision and, in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Credit
1370-TA), timely assistance from co-financiers have already had some reme-
dial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on imple-
mentation have been most severe, there have been improvements in some
prolects. However, considerable work remains to be done in improving
project implementation and disbursements. The Country Implementation
Review scheduled for May 1984 had to be deferred because of changes in the
Government, but discussions were held on further rationalization of the
project portfolio. The next Review is planned for Fall 1986.
27.       Given the state of the Tanzania economy over the last five years,
our strategy during this time has been to follow a two-track approach which
involves the pursuit of structural adjustment issues on the one hand, but
which in the absence of complete agreement with the Government on all
elements leading to a structural adjustment type lending operation, has
focussed on a few high priority projects in specific sectors (para. 23).
Through these projects we can reinforce positive policies and reform, and
give priority to important infrastructure which is in need of rehabili-
tation and is of long-term value to the economy. This proposed highway
rehabilitation project is an integral part of this strategy.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
28.       Tanzania is a large country (945,000 km2) with a widely dispersed
population of 19.8 million, most of whom live in rural areas. Agriculture
is the key sector, accounting for over 45% of GNP, 90% of employment and
about 85% of foreign exchange earnings. Transport plays a vital role in
this sector for internal distribution and marketing of food crops, for
export of cash crops, and for distribution of inputs. The transport infra-
structure also serves as an important corridor for the external trade of
Tanzania's land-locked neighbors - Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda, Zaire and,
increasingly, Malawi. Roads are the predominant means of transport in all
sectors, with railways carrying a major share of the important import/
export traffic.



- 10 -
29.       The transport system comprises a road network of about 82,000 km;
two railway systems totalling about 3,610 km of track, 2,640 km operated by
the Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) and 970 km within Tanzania hy the
jointly-owned Tanzania/Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA); three ocean ports
managed and operated by the Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA), as well as
several lake ports; and two international airports and over 60 smaller air-
fields (mostly unpaved).  In addition, a pipeline conveys crude oil
products from Dar-es-Salaam to the Zambian border.
30.       The basic transport network links all the main production centers
but with varying degrees of efficiency. Only about 3,000 kms (30%) of the
trunk roads are paved and most have deteriorated through lack of mainte-
nance. The two rail systems are also in varying degrees of disrepair due
to poor maintenance of tracks, locomotives, and wagons. The sector in
general suffers from a shortage of trained and experienced personnel, weak
management, and an acute scarcity of foreign exchange to meet the costs of
spare parts and imported materials.
Transport Planning and Policies
31.       The Government's broad objectives and policies are to:  (i)
strengthen planning capability and long-term sectoral strategy to increase
the cost effectiveness of the transport system; (ii) increase efficiency of
use and emphasize maintenance of existing assets; (iii) maximize use of
rail and coastal and lake shipping to reduce extensive pressures on the
trucking sector; (iv) remove unnecessary administrative restrictions
especially on inter-regional freight movements; and (v) increase tariff
flexibility to ensure reasonable profitability of transport movements.
32.       Since 1982, progress has been made in a number of these key
areas. The Government is presently reviewing a Road Transport Policy Paper
prepared by the National Transport Corporation (NTC) with a view to formu-
lating an official Government policy which is expected to improve the effi-
ciency and increase the effective capacity of the sub-sector. The Govern-
ment intends to follow this by preparation of a policy paper for the whole
transport sector - the first time such an exercise has been attempted in
Tanzania. The Government has agreed to submit a draft of this paper to the
Association for review by January 1, 1987. In addition, the planning
capability in MCW has been strengthened with assistance from the Danish aid
agency DANIDA (see para. 33 below). The policy on tariffs in road and rail
transport appears to be moving towards greater determination by market
forces. Government policies have recently indicated that the public
sector, particularly parastatals, will be expected to improve efficiency,
and have acknowledged the importance of the role of the private sector in
the provision of road transport.
33.       The Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW) has overall
responsibility for planning, development, utilization and maintenance of
the transport network. A Directorate of Planning and Research was recently
established within MCW to handle overall transport planning and coordina-
tion. DANIDA is providing technical assistance to this Directorate to help
set up a data collection and analysis system and to supervise preparation
of the integrated strategy for transport sector development. To ensure
that a data collection system is operated on a continuing basis, not later



- 11 -
than January 1, 1987 and annually thereafter the Government would compile
and publish annual transport statistics with a format and contents satis-
factory to the Association.
34.       The proposed Transport Sector Investment Program (FY1986-88) fits
within the framework of the Government's overall development program. It
calls for an expenditure in current prices of about TSh. 7.2 billion
(USS409 million), of which local costs amount to TSh. 1.9 billion and
foreign exchange costs, TSh. 5.3 billion. More than half of the proposed
investments are in roads and road transport, mainly completion of ongoing
construction projects, rehabilitation works, and strengthening of road
maintenance. In the highways subsector, the program is reasonable and
represents a significant reduction from previous proposals. In ports, the
THA program essentially reflects investments contained in the Port
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1536-TA). In railways, the TRC program
represents a combination of rehabilitation and ongoing investments, for
which foreign exchange financing is substantially committed, and a substan-
tial new locomotive purchase program; the latter has yet to be justified.
The Government has agreed that (i) it would neither make changes in the
overall transport investment program agreed with the Association, nor
increase or decrease the amounts allocated to any individual investment by
more than 25% or in aggregate by more than 15%, without prior consultation,
and (ii) TRC would proceed with the purchase of new locomotives only after
the economic feasibility has been demonstrated to the mutual satisfaction
of the Government and the Association.
The Railways Subsector
35.       TRC provides rail services throughout the country, except the
southwest which is served by TAZARA. TRC is receiving assistance from a
number of sources, primarily bilateral and particularly Canada, which has
in recent years funded equipment and technical assistance and training.
Benefits from this assistance are only slowly being realized. Efficiency
in TRC is still low and its financial situation is weak. The Government
initiated a co-donors technical meeting in November 1983 which emphasized
better use of existing assets rather than the purchase of new ones. It was
agreed that there was need for immediate improvements in TRC's financial
situation, particularly through appropriate tariff policy. These ideas
were further discussed at a subsequent co-donors meeting in May 1984.
Since commencing operations in 1976, TAZARA has been unable to handle
traffic demand due to a precipitate decline in locomotive availability.
Provision of new locomotives (financed by the Federal Republic of Germany)
has arrested and partly reversed this decline, but underlying managerial
and staffing weaknesses remain to be addressed. A recent Bank Group-
financed study recommends technical assistance and training combined with
limited investment directed at addressing specific weaknesses, mainly in
mechanical engineering and accounting.
The Highways Subsector
36.       The highway system in Tanzania has a dual function:  it is the
primary mode of transport where other modes - such as rail and lake - are
not available, and it complements the rail and lake systems, mainly in the
north where the main roads generally terminate at lake ports or railheads.



- 12 -
Thus, there is little direct competition between road and other surface
transport.
37.       The road network totals about 82,000 km, of which 10,000 km are
designated trunk roads and 8,000 km local main roads; the remainder are
regional and district roads (about 42,000 km), and several thousand kms of
agricultural feeder roads and tracks. Most of the district roads are also
agricultural feeder roads. Only about 3,000 km of the network is paved;
the rest of the road system consists of lower standard primary, secondary,
and feeder roads, many of which become impassable during the rainy season.
Average daily traffic is relatively light, under 200 vehicles per day (vpd)
on most roads. The most heavily trafficked roads are the TANZAM highway
(over 800 vpd on some sections) and the Dar-es-Salaam-Arusha road (over 300
vpd). Enforcement of vehicle axle load regulations has not been effective
and extensive overloading of trucks has resulted in premature deterioration
of the paved roads, especially the Tanzania-Zambia (TANZAM) highway and the
Chalinze-Segera- Arusha and Segera-Tanga roads. The Government has been
reviewing current axle road legislation and enforcement measures and has
proposed increasing the axle load limit. The Government has agreed that,
not later than December 31, 1986, it will introduce regulations as
necessary to reform existing axle load control and adopt a plan,
satisfactory to the Association, for the enforcement of such regulations
not later than three months thereafter.
38.       Highway administration in Tanzania is divided between MCW, which
is directly responsible for the construction and maintenance of trunk
roads, and the 20 Regional Governments, which are responsible for the
local main, regional and district roads. The regions are divided into 4-5
districts each and, in common, do not have enough qualified engineers,
technicians and road field personnel to maintain adequately the large kilo-
metrage of regional, district and feeder roads, even if funds were allo-
cated for this purpose. The Government has agreed that priority in the
allocation of trained manpower under the project would be given to the
Regional and District Governments where the need is greatest and road main-
tenance can most effectively be carried out. Construction of feeder roads
is mostly initiated by the agricultural parastatals and executed by MCW or
the Regional Governments. Although the Regional Governments are generally
required to maintain the feeder road systems within their regions,
resources are rarely earmarked for this purpose. Because of the demand for
improvement of agricultural feeder road systems, the project would include
provision for an agricultural feeder roads study (para. 61).
39.       In July 1984, the former Ministry of Communications and Transport
and the Ministry of Works were combined to form the Ministry of Communica-
tions and Works (MCW). Two separate divisions under the Commissioner of
Construction and Maintenance are responsible for the execution of road
construction and maintenance works; and the Mechanical and Electrical
Directorate is responsible for the service and repair of the Government's
equipment and vehicle fleets, including those used in force account works
by the road construction and maintenance divisions. Most of the senior
engineering positions and many of the technicians positions in MCW are
vacant through lack of experienced staff; the group of recently graduated
engineers financed under Lhe ongoing Fifth Highway Project have been
appointed for those senior positions which have been budgeted for, but they
are relatively inexperienced.



- 13 -
40.       Technical-bias secondary schools and vocational training centers,
technical colleges, and the University of Dar-es-Salaam form the structure
of national engineering and technical education in the country. Most of
the institutions were established in the late-60s and early-70s and, except
for the University, the quality of teaching and education has declined
because of the lack of suitably qualified school leavers and instructors.
The project would provide assistance to improve the quality of teaching and
expand the courses at the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College to include a
highway engineering specialization (para. 57). In addition to these
national educational institutions, the MCW runs its own training school at
Morogoro for training inspectors and foremen in specialized road mainten-
ance and equipment repair and maintenance activities. The school is being
assisted under the Fifth Highway Project to improve the quality of
instruction; assistance would be continued under the proposed project
(para. 58).
41.       The majority of new works, particularly large projects involving
considerable foreign expenditures, are executed by foreign contractors.
The trend has been to execute locally financed projects by force account.
Force account works have generally been of poor quality and have been
carried out at a high cost. The proposed project aims at giving direct
assistance to local contractors to encourage MCW to give out more work to
them (para. 59). MCW has a small design section which undertakes detailed
engineering of minor roads and bridges. Feasibility studies and detailed
engineering of major projects are carried out by foreign consultants.
There are at least three large local consulting firms with the potential to
expand into highway engineering and MCW has agreed to consider these firms
for inclusion in the shortlists for consultants under the project; in order
to gain the necessary expertise, they will be encouraged to explore joint
ventures with foreign consulting firms.
42.       Under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects, the Association
assisted MCW to establish a Trunk Road Maintenance (TRM) organization in
each region, headed by Resident Engineers. Virtually all road maintenance
works, including rehabilitation works, are carried out by force account.
The quality of the works has been unsatisfactory due mainly to weak manage-
ment, poor equipment maintenance, inadequately trained staff, and uncer-
tainties in the availability of essential supplies such as fuel and
bitumen. To improve the quality of road maintenance operations, a policy
of letting out the periodic maintenance (resealing, regravelling) and
rehabilitation works on contract would be carried out under the project to
allow the TRM organizations to concentrate on routine maintenance activi-
ties for which an effective capability can be achieved. In addition, the
project has made provisions for (i) assistance to develop the local con-
tracting industry, (ii) rehabilitation by contract of an adequate number of
equipment and vehicles to service the TRM road maintenance operations and,
(iii) technical assistance and training to improve the quality of road
maintenance.
43.       The FY1986-88 Highway Investment Program consists of (i) comple-
tion of ongoing investment, which covers a mixture of new construction and
upgrading of existing highways, (ii) rehabilitation of the TANZAM highway
and main gravel roads to be financed under the proposed project, and (iii)
rehabilitation works to be defined through studies to be undertaken under



- 14 -
the proposed project. The ongoing new road and reconstruction components
comprise work for which financing of foreign exchange costs, the most
important determinant of speed of execution, has already been secured.
There is adequate budgetary provision for the local costs of maintenance
under the program.
44.       Highway maintenance expenditures are provided through the central
government budgetary system. Although highway maintenance expenditure has
declined as a percentage of total Government recurrent expenditure from
1.2% in FY80 to an estimated 1% in FY85, revenue from road user charges in
Tanzania (mainly fuel taxes) still comfortably covers the local costs of
the current level of highway maintenance expenditure (3.8 times) and
provides an acceptable contribution to highway investment. The lack of
foreign exchange to meet the foreign costs of highway maintenance remains
the primary financial constraint. The incidence of taxes is greatest upon
gasoline driven passenger vehicles, but revenue from trucks is sufficient
to cover attributable costs.
The Road Transport rndustry
45.       The total number of trucks licensed is over 11,000, of which 78%
are privately owned, with most of the remainder belonging to parastatals,
including six Regional Transport Companies (RETCOs). The private sector
accounts for about 85% of total freight movements. The apparently liwer
efficiency of public trucking is partly accounted for by low utilization of
vehicles owned by the transport wings of industrial and agricultural para-
statals. In general, large operators (including RETCOs) operating inter-
regionally peform best, with trucks achieving 40,000 km to 70,000 km per
year, while crop authorities and small owners, both of whom use vehicles as
ancillary to other activities, achieve as little as 10,000 km per truck
annually. Vehicle age, spare parts, and tire availability are also signi-
ficant determinants in truck performance. There has been a chronic short-
age of replacement vehicles and a consequently aging fleet. Freight move-
ment by road appears to have declined by 2% per annum since the mid-1970s,
but as the overall level of economic activity has stagnated, this has
apparently not resulted in persistent or widespread capacity shortage.
Trucking costs are high, ranging from US 15-33 cents per ton/km. Official
road freight tariffs broadly reflect costs, when the cost components
(vehicles, tires, fuel) can be obtained at official rates of exchange, but
are unprofitable to the truck operator if he is obliged to obtain most
inputs from the 'parallel market. Prices of all the main petroleum
products including diesel are at least equal to economic opportunity cost
as measured by border prices shadow priced and in the case of gasoline,
substantially higher. The relative incentive given to employing diesel
powered vehicles, which are generally more fuel efficient than gasoline, is
reasonable in view of the critical role fuel costs play in the Tanzanian
balance of payments.
46.       Responsibility for public sector transport rests with the
National Transport Corporation (NTC), a parastatal organization under the
MCW. Government policy in the past has been to regulate the industry
through the supply of inputs, particularly new vehicles, and tariffs,
rather than regulation of entry. The system has not worked well, however.
The distribution of inputs has not necessarily been to the most efficient



- 15 -
users, and inappropriate tariffs have led to diversion of capacity to more
lucrative activities (including passenger movement by truck). Proposals
for reform of government policy have been prepared by the NTC and are being
reviewed by the Government. The three main features are: (i) inputs--
vehicles primarily--for which foreign exchange is supplied by the Govern-
ment, should be allocated on the basis of the average annual mileage
achieved per vehicle in a user's fleet to the most efficient users;
(ii) this allocation mechanism should be impartial between public and
private trucking; and (iii) tariff controls should be removed on inter-
regional movements where they would be based upon competitive bids for
transport contracts. Tariff controls would be retained on intra-regional
movements, as capacity shortages and consequent potentially high tariffs
exist in the more remote regions.
47.       If prices of "official inputs  were subject to duties and taxes,
this would reduce somewhat the difference with the parallel market prices
(although only an auction system or an exchange rate devaluation would
likely reduce the differential substantially). If inter- and intra-
regional tariff policy were more determined by market forces, this would
be likely to lead to both more equitable (vis-a-vis the small trucker) and
efficient results in the provision of transport. If inter-regional compe-
titive bidding continues to be employed for major contracts, with provision
for modification in exceptional cases (e.g. minor consignments and very bad
road conditions), this would be an improvement over allocation in commit-
tee. A bidding system for intra-regional transport, however, would be
impractical given the number and nature of the mostly short haul, small
load and time constrained transport demands. As a result of these consi-
derations, agreement was reached with the Government that: (i) allocation
of inputs to be financed under the trucking component of the proposed
project would be based on specific criteria related to immediate trucking
needs (para. 60); (ii) inputs financed by foreign exchange from Govern-
ment's own resources would be allocated to the most efficient users based
upon efficiency criteria satisfactory to the Association; (iii) inputs
supplied through official channels would be subject to both import duty and
sales tax; (iv) road freight tariffs for inter-regional movements would be
based upon bids whenever feasible; and (v) road freight tariffs on intra-
regional movements would be based upon the costs of providing transport
services. In regard to item (ii), the Government would prepare workable
criteria satisfactory to the Association by September 30, 1986. In the
event such criteria cannot be prepared by the above date, the Government
has agreed that it would distribute official inputs to the trucking sector
in line with the distribution of the existing fleet of trucks among the
main categories of ownership, namely, private, cooperative, RETCOs, and
other parastatals (on the basis of the most recently available data from
the Central Transport Licensing Authority).
Previous Bank Group Lending and Strategy in the Sector
48.       The general strategy of past Bank Group operations, particularly
since the breakup of the East Africa Community (EAC) in 1977, has been to:
(i) attempt to increase the Government's capability to determine
priorities within and across transport sub-sectors, both in



- 16 -
capital investment proposals and in the distribution of
resources between investment and maintenance; and
(ii) assist in the identification of priority investments, and
support their execution through the Bank Group's lending
program.
49.       The Bank Group has assisted in financing seven projects in
Tanzania concerned with roads and road transport: (a) IDA Credit 48-TA
(US$14.0 million) in 1964 for construction of various road sections total-
ling 860 km; supplemented by Credit 115-TA (US$3.0 million) in 1968; (b)
IDA Credit 142-TA (US$15.5 million) and Bank Loan 586-TA (US$7.0 million)
supplemented by a US$7.5 million Swedish Credit in 1969 for highway con-
struction; (c) IDA Credit 265-TA (US$6.5 million) in 1971 for construction
of a main road in the southeast and betterment of selected feeder roads;
(d) IDA Credit 507-TA (US$10.2 million) in 1974 for improving the mainten-
ance of primary roads and for carrying out a study of the road transport
industry; (e) IDA Credit 743-TA (US$15.0 million) in 1977 for a trucking
industry rehabilitation and improvement project, arising out of a road
transport industry study under the previous project; (f) IDA Credit 876-TA
(US$20.5 million) in March 1979 for improving the maintenance of trunk
roads and for initiating a pilot program for regional road maintenance; and
(g) IDA Export Rehahilitation Credit 1133-TA (US$50.0 million) in 1981
which provided inter alia, for the procurement of spare parts and tires for
the trucks owned by parastatal companies transporting export crops. The
first three highway projects, which concentrated on new road construction,
have been completed successfully, but the fourth, which aimed at the
organization and strengthening of road maintenance and training, met with
little success and the lessons learned are being applied in the proposed
project. The Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) on the first three
note that the physical targets were mostly achieved, albeit, in the case of
the third project, rather late and at considerably increased costs, which
adversely affected the economic rate of return. However, institutional
development and training of staff were unsuccessful primarily because of
unrealistic targets. Attention is now increasingly directed to ensuring
continuity of ongoing training.
50.       The Bank has also participated in the development of railways in
Tanzania through the former EAC with two projects in 1955 and 1970. Both
these projects were completed satisfactorily. The Bank has participated in
financing four port projects, three in 1965, 1969, and 1972 through the
former EAC which included improvements to the Dar-es-Salaam port. These
projects have been completed and a PPAR covering the last two has been
issued. The PPAR points out that despite cost overruns (30%) and implemen-
tation delays (2-3 years), the two projects can be considered successful
since the additions to physical capacity provided facilities essential to
the foreign trade of Kenya and Tanzania and the neighboring land-locked
countries; however, they had limited effect on productivity, managerial and
operational aspects of the ports. The PPAR suggests future projects should
place special emphasis on productivity, manpower development and on the
maintenance of facilities and equipment. These issues are being addressed
in the fourth project, the Dar-es-Salaam Port Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1536-TA) for US$27 million equivalent, which was approved in
November 1984.



- 17 -
51.       In order to strengthen the weak transport planning capability in
Tanzania and after several years of preparation of a program for establish-
ment of a transport planning and coordination capability in MCW, agreement
was reached last year on the objectives and staffing required, including
technical assistance. External funds for technical assistance are being
provided by the Government of Denmark and an action program to strengthen
transport planning and coordination has been drawn up. The lack of plan-
ning capacity, together with previously rather uncoordinated multilateral
and bilateral assistance to the transport sector, has dictated that a
step-by-step approach be adopted in Bank Group assistance. After basic
assistance in highway maintenance and trucking has been provided, the port
requirements are being addressed, to be followed by specific road rehabili-
tation assistance under the proposed project and, as an extension of the
regional emphasis of the port project, prospective assistance to TAZARA and
TRC may be considered. No involvement in air transport is contemplated at
this time.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       The project was identified by Bank staff in cooperation with the
Tanzanian authorities as a follow-on project to the Fourth and Fifth
Highway Projects (Credits 507-TA and 876-TA). It was appraised in June
1985. Negotiations were held in Washington during the period March 3-7,
1986, with the Tanzanian delegation led by Mr. 0. Ongara, Principal
Secretary, Ministry of Communications and Works. A Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project" (No.5922-TA) dated
April 2, 1986 is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
53.       The main project objective is to rehabilitate deteriorated
sections of the TANZAM Highway and high priority sections of the country's
gravel road network serving the productive agricultural areas. A signifi-
cant institutional reform is expected to be achieved through an agreement
with the Government for all the major rehabilitation works under the
project to be carried out by contractors, with the Government concentrating
its force account efforts more effectively on routine maintenance for which
an effective capacity can be achieved. The project would continue support
to the trucking industry and help set out more efficient and effective road
transport policies. Specifically, the project would include financing for:
i)   the implementation of a road rehabilitation program consist-
ing of about 295 kms of the TANZAM Highway and 700-1000 kms
of gravel roads;
ii) the implementation of an equipment rehabilitation program;
iii) technical assistance to the Ministry of Communications and
Works (MCW);
iv) training of engineers, planning officers and other profes-
sionals, highway technicians, and road field personnel;



- 18 -
v)   technical assistance to the local contracting industry;
vi) a program of maintenance spares and assistance to the truck-
ing industry; and
vii) consulting services to carry out (a) feasibility studies and
detailed engineering of three paved road sections totalling
about 423 kms, and (b) a study of agricultural feeder roads.
54.       Road Rehabilitation Program.  The project would provide financing
for rehabilitation of about 295 kms of the most heavily trafficked trunk
road in the country, the TANZAM highway, which extends 920 kms from Dar-es-
Salaam to the Zambian border. The sections to be rehabilitated are deteri-
orated and important for transport of agricultural production. Consulting
services to supervise the work would also be provided. The project would
also provide financing for rehabilitation of up to 1,000 kns of gravel
roads over a three-year period as a slice of a ten year program covering
about 3,500 kms. The location and lengths of roads to be covered under the
three-year program have been determined. The list would be reviewed
annually by the Association and the Government. The Government has also
agreed that by December 31 each year beginning in 1986, it would furnish to
the Association for its review (i) the annual overall program of road
rehabilitation giving details of road sections, lengths, traffic data,
standards, and cost estimates for the following fiscal year and (ii) insti-
tutional arrangements and funding of maintenance of the rehabilitated roads
to ensure that they are adequate.
55.       Equipment Rehabilitation Program.  Many items of equipment and
vehicles purchased under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects have already
been grounded because of shortages of spares and components, poor servicing
and repairs, and lack of fuel. These items would be rehabilitated mostly
by contract supervised by consultants. The central workshop at Morogoro
and the six zonal workshops would also be reorganized to carry out preven-
tive maintenance and some major repairs. To facilitate the reorganization,
the Government would, not later than December 31, 1986, dispose of all
scrap parts and components, unusable equipment and vehicles, and thereafter
take measures regularly to dispose of equipment and vehicles which have
reached the end of their economic life. A total of 168 man months of
technical assistance over two years would be provided, comprising one
mechanic for each workshop and a team leader to assist in examining each
item, drafting and evaluating bids and supervising contracts.
56.       Technical Assistance to MCW would be provided in the following
areas: (a) Project Coordination. An advisor to the local Project
Coordinator for 24 man months to assist with overall coordination and
monitoring; (b) Training. An advisor for 36 man months to assist MCW's
Chief Training Officer to assess training needs and institute, monitor and
evaluate training programs; (c) Road Maintenance. An advisor for 36 man
months to continue assistance begun under the Fifth Highway Project to
improve MCW's road maintenance organization, management and quality; and
(d) Equipment Management. An advisor for 24 man months to assist the
Equipment Management Engineer in deployment of equipment and vehicles,
monitoring their availability and utilization and ensuring adequate servic-
ing and repairs. Consultants would be appointed to the above positions



- 19 -
under terms and conditions satisfactory to DANIDA which is financing this
component.
57.       Training.  The University of Dar-es-Salaam can produce only about
60 engineers each year; this number, while acceptable in the long term, is
not adequate to meet the country's short-term needs. The project would
therefore provide fellowships abroad (primarily in India) over a period of
three years for an additional 70 school leavers to study engineering, 5
economics graduates to study transport planning and economics, and 15 other
professionals such as accountants. The project also seeks to improve the
quality of teaching at the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College and expand the
curriculum to include highway engineering. The project would therefore
assist in instituting a three-year Highway Technicians Course by adding a
fourth class of 25 students to the current civil engineering diploma course
and providing funds for 9 instructors, staff and student housing, and
training materials. The instructors would work with Tanzanian counterparts
who would be provided with one-year fellowships for training abroad during
the second vear and would take over at the end of the third year. The
course content and syllabi of subjects taught in the existing civil
engineering course need improvement and agreement has been reached with the
Government that (i) it will review the existing course in detail and submit
new proposals for review by the Association not later than December 31,
1986, and (ii) it will appoint a qualified counterpart to each of the 9
instructors financed under the project not later than July 1, 1987.
58.       In addition to these national educational institutions, MCW runs
its own training school at Morogoro for training of inspectors and foremen
in specialized road maintenance and equipment repair and maintenance.
Under the Fifth Highway Project the Association is financing a consultant
team consisting of a team leader, a roads instructor, a mechanical
instructor, and an electrical instructor who conduct short courses for
field supervisory personnel. The courses have been very successful and are
being continued to meet the demand not only from MCW but from the regional
and district governments. The project provides for the continuation of the
consultantst contract for a further period of two years from October 1986.
Under the contract, four counterparts will continue to be trained. Besides
the above, annual in-service training programs for professional staff will
be prepared by MCW with the assistance of the Training Advisor.
59.       Assistance to the Local Contracting Industry.  Primarily because
of the difficulty of obtaining foreign exchange to pay for equipment, local
contractors have not participated to any extent in roadworks, and as a
result have limited experience. The project would assist local contractors
by providing (i) technical assistance and training in all aspects of bid-
ding and contract execution procedures; and (ii) the opportunity to bid for
contracts for the rehabilitation of gravel roads (para. 41). The National
Construction Council (NCC) would provide additional training and technical
assistance to successful bidders during contract administration at fees to
be agreed with the Association.
60.       Assistance to the Trucking Industry.  Five public regional truck-
ing companies (RETCOs) were established under the Trucking Industry
Improvement and Rehabilitation Project (Credit 743-TA) which closed in June
1985. The proposed project would finance a total of 264 man months of



- 20 -
technical assistance to the National Transport Corporation (NTC) and the
RETCOs to provide operational, engineering and accounting advisors. The
project also more generally provides for the procurement of spare parts,
tires, and batteries for relatively new (three or four years old) trucks
requiring only maintenance spares rather than major rehabilitation.
Preference would also be given to those vehicles which have been partici-
pating in transport of agricultural produce and inputs to rural areas.
NTC, which would act as executing agency for this component, has success-
fully applied theee criteria under a recently completed EEC-financed
projecL. To ensure that efficient private truckers are able to rehabili-
Late their trucks, which account for about 80% of the overall fleet, provi-
sion would be made that private truckers (including primary cooperatives,
but not cooperative unions) would receive at least 65% of the funds alloca-
ted under this component.
61.       Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering of the Chalinze-
Segera-Mukumbara (270 km), Tanga-Segera (73 km), and Arusha-Moshi (80 km)
roads would be financed under the project. The roads link the Kilimanjaro
and Moshi regions to the ports of Tanga and Dar-es-Salaam, and next to the
TANZAM highway are the most heavily trafficked in the country. Iu addi-
tion, the project includes provision for an Agricultural Feeder Roads
Study, to be financed by Denmark, to (i) determine the extent to which
transport delays have occurred and additional production costs of key agri-
cultural products incurred due to the absence of satisfactory road access;
(ii) prepare an investment program Lo develop the highest priority feeder
roads; and (iii) recommend institutional arrangements for the planning,
funding, construction, and maintenance of feeder road systems.
Project Costs and Financing
62.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies (estimated
at US$23.3 million) and taxes and duties (estimated at US$7.6 million) is
estimated at US$107.7 million, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$78.3 million (73%). Cost estimates are based on detailed or preliminary
engineering and costs of similar works and services in the region. Costs
include physical contingencies of about 10%. Rates of inflation of foreign
costs have been applied to both foreign and local costs in the calculation
of price contingencies. Inflation per annum in the foreign market is esti-
mated to be 7.2% in 1986, 6.8% in 1987 and 1988, 7.0% in 1989, 7.1% in
1990, and 4.0% thereafter. Local inflation is currently 30% per annum. It
is assumed that any persistent divergence between local and foreign costs
will be corrected by exchange rate adjustments.
63.       The proposed credit of US$50.0 million would finance about 64% of
the foreign exchange cost of the project. Cofinancing commitments have
been obtained for the remaining foreign costs from the AfDB (US$19.4
million equivalent from African Development Fund resources) for two
sections of the TANZAM highway, Norway (a grant of approximately US$6.9
million equivalent) for joint financing of four sections of the TANZAM
highway, and Denmark (a grant of approximately US$2.0 million equivalent)
for technical assistance to MCW and the agricultural feeder roads study.
Norway and the Association will be jointly financing a portion of the
TANZAM highway and the signing of the Norwegian grant agreement is a
condition of effectiveness for the IDA credit. The Association



- 21 -
will administer the Norwegian grant under Lhe terms of a Letter of
Administration between Norway and the Association. Arrangements for the
AfDB and Danish financing are to be completed by no later than December 31,
1986.
Project Implementation
64.       The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Communica-
tions and Works (MCW) and the Ministry of Education (MOE). A local Project
Coordinator, located in MCW, has been appointed to provide overall coordi-
nation and monitoring, assist the various executing agencies, and supervise
and monitor the project accounts. NCC would implement the assistance to
the local contracting industry and NTC to the trucking industry under the
authority of MCW. The project is expected to become effective in July 1986
and to be physically completed by December 31, 1991; closing date is June
30, 1992.
65.       The largest project component, the TANZAM highway rehabilitation,
was prepared on the basis of feasibility studies and detailed engineering
carried out by consultants. Prequalification is expected by September
1986, and contract award by April 1987. The gravel road rehabilitation has
been prepared by consultants. Prequalification for this component is
expected by August 1986, and contracts awarded by February 1987. Cost
estimates are based on field surveys and costs of existing contracts for
similar work. This is considered adequate for the gravel roads as the
civil works would be mainly the rehabilitation of drains and culverts and
regravelling for which detailed engineering would not be justified.
Procurement and Disbursement
66.       All civil works would be executed by contract.  Procurement of
civil works for the rehabilitation of those sections of the TANZAM highway
to be jointly financed by the Association and Norway, and procurement of
civil works for about 85% of the rehabilitation of gravel roads to be
financed by the Association, would be carried out under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Domestic contractors would be allowed a 7.5% preference for civil works.
About 15% of the rehabilitation of gravel roads, which would comprise con-
tracts less than US$500,000 each and are expected to be unattractive to
foreign contractors, would be carried out under Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB). Contracts for the rehabilitation of equipment (including vehicles)
would also be carried out under LCB. Procurement of spare parts, tires and
batteries, and transport equipment would be awarded after ICB. Interna-
tional shopping would be permitted for proprietary spare parts and compo-
nents and for training aids and equipment. Contracts for goods estimated
to cost less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million, would be
procured under LCB. The LCB procedures have been reviewed by the Associa-
tion and found satisfactory except for a preference presently given to bids
from parastatals which would not be applied to Association-financed
projects. Procurement for the sections of the TANZAM highway to be
financed by AfDB would be carried out under their procurement regulations.
Consultants financed by the Association would be appointed in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines. Consulting services to be financed by others
would be subject to their procurement rules. All contracts in excess of



- 22 -
US$100,000 equivalent (estimated to be about 80Z of project costs) would be
subject to prior review by the Association. The procurement arrangements
are summarized in the following table:
Total
Project
Category                                   ICB   LCB  Other    N.A.  Cost a/
-US$ million
Civil Works (TANZAM Highway)               31.1    -   26.6b/   -        57.7
(13.2)                       (13.2)
Civil Works (Gravel Roads)                 17.2   3.1   -        -       20.3
(10.3) (1.8)                  (12.1)
Civil Works (Buildings)                     -      0.8   -       -        0.8
(0.4)                  (0.4)
Mechanical Service Contracts                -      1.0   -       -        1.0
(0.7)                  (0.7)
Spare Parts and Components (MCW)            1.5   -      1.5c/   -        3.0
(1.5)        (1.5)           (3.0)
Spare Parts, Tires, Batteries (Trucking)  2.9   -        2.9c/   -        5.8
(2.9)       (2.97)           (5.8)
Traffic Counting and Office Equip.          -      -     0.3d/   -        0.3
Training Equipment and Transport            0.7   -      0.5c/   -        1.2
(0.7)       (0.57            (1.2)
Tech. Asst. & Consulting Services           -      -     -      14.6    14.6
(10.6)  (10.6)
Fellowships                                 -      -     -       3.0      3.0
(3.0)   (3.0)
53.4   4.9  31.8    17.6   107.7
(28.6) (2.9) (4.9)  (13.6)  (50.0)
NB:  Amount financed by IDA in parenthesis.
a/   Including Taxes.
Wi Procurement to be carried out in accordance with AMDB procedures.
c/   International Shopping.
J/ Procurement to be carried out in accordance with DANIDA procedures.



- 23 -
67.       The credit would be disbursed against:  (a) 65% of total expendi-
tures for rehabilitation of the TANZAM Highway; (b) 60% of total expendi-
tures for rehabilitation of gravel roads; (c) 65% of total expenditures for
mechanical service contracts; (d) 50X of total expenditures for construc-
tion of staff housing and student hostel extension; (e) 100% of foreign
expenditures for road maintenance equipment, spare parts and components,
tires and batteries, training aids and equipment, and transport vehicles;
and (f) 90Z of total expenditures for services of consultants domiciled in
Tanzania and OOZ of foreign expenditures for services of other consult-
ants. Disbursements for amounts less than US$20,000, or for civil works
contracts of less than $100,000, would be made against Statements of
Expenditure; documentation would be retained by the implementing agencies
and made available to the Association during supervision. The estimated
schedule of disbursements given in the Credit Summary is based on the
project implementation schedule and is close to the disbursement profile
for transportation projects in the region. The credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by June 30, 1992.
68.       A revolving fund (special account) would be established and
operated by the Government in the Central Bank of Tanzania. An initial
deposit of US$3.3 million would be made from the credit account to cover
the estimated initial three months of disbursements. Further deposits by
the Association to replenish the special account would be made against
withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documents.
Accounts and Audits
69.       Project accounts would be maintained by HCW.  In the past there
have been delays in submitting audited accounts to the Association due to a
shortage of staff in the office of the Controller and Auditor-General which
is responsible for such audits. The Government is now in compliance with
audit requirements. MCW would submit audited and certified project
accounts to the Association no later than nine months after the close of
each fiscal year.
Benefits
70.       Strengthening of the highway network and trucking system is
expected to help the Government in its efforts to rehabilitate the economy,
particularly in the key agricultural sector. The project would reduce
vehicle operating costs through (a) improving road conditions and (b)
better truck maintenance resulting in savings in fuel. It would reduce the
cost of road transport, both freight and passengers, increase its reli-
ability, speed up its flow and provide all-weather use of the priority
sections of the gravel road network. It would restore a portion of the
principal arteries of the country to a maintainable condition and cut the
costs which would otherwise have to be incurred annually in heavy mainten-
ance works to keep the roads in a passable condition. The technical
assistance and training components would strengthen MCW, increase the
availability of trained engineers in Tanzania, and increase the capab-
ilities of the local contracting industry.



- 24 -
71.       The overall ERR of the project, excluding studies and technical
assistance to MCW, is estimated at 38%, ranging from over 100% on equipment
rehabilitation to an average of 27% on the gravel roads component, an aver-
age of 39% on the TANZAM highway component and 22% on the trucking compo-
nent. The two main variables which would affect the economic benefits on
the highway rehabilitation components of the project are: (i) a failure of
the economy to recover, and hence for traffic to increase; and (ii) reha-
bilitation costs to exceed estimates, including physical contingencies.
With zero traffic growth, the ERR falls to 28%; a 25% increase in rehabili-
tation costs would reduce it to 29%; with these effects combined, the ERR
would still be an acceptable 25%.
Risks
72.       The main risks are institutional.  MCW maintenance capability may
improve only slowly if the organization fails to utilize limited resources
in the most efficient manner. The project attempts to address this
problem, which was prominent in the execution of previous projects, by
providing a clear focus for MCW maintenance activity. It would encour-
age a policy of executing rehabilitation and regravelling works by contract
and limiting force account works to routine maintenance activities only, as
well as ensure that there is a continuing supply of trained manpower, which
will also allow for loss to the private sector or other activities. A
further risk is that the gravel road rehabilitation program may not be
executed in as timely a fashion as desirable and completion of individual
road components may be delayed. This risk will be minimized by annual
review of the program for the following year. Finally, the local contract-
ing industry may respond slowly to participating fully in the gravel roads
rehabilitation program, and thus development of the industry may be slow.
This risk will be minimized by provision of contractor training and support
to the NCC under the project. The risk of higher than expected costs will
be minimized by (i) financing a time slice of gravel road rehabilitation,
(ii) rehabilitating the highest priority equipment items, and (iii) reduc-
ing the number of trucks repaired if spares requirements are above
estimates.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 10, 1986



-25 -                                             ANNEX I
T A S L E  3.                                      Page  I1E   7
TANlANtA, UNITED  EP. 0F 1AW. INDICATOS DATA SNEEE
TAANIXA, UNITED REP. oP             REFEREC  GROUPS (WEIGHT  AVRAGE) 
MOT                      (MOST NICEST ESTIMATE)
REGNT          LOW INCOU  AFRICA        MDL   cOE
igaLb      397k. RSIIITELb          SOUTH OP SAHARA      AFRICA S. OP SARA
TOTAL                             945.1      945.1       945.1
AGRICULTURAL                      351.1     321.2        402.0
an     CAPITA cS)                      ..         ..        240.0 .L          238.8                   1063.8
UIT 0WUUWIoS 13P CAPITA
(KILOGRANS OP OIL EQUIVALENT)      17.0       49.0        50.0              62.3                   5S1.5
mans AM             IERTIATICS
POPULATIOH.MID-TEAA (THOUSANDS)  10026.0    13513.0    20771.0
URAN POULATION (E OF TOTAL)         4.3        6.9        13.6              20.1                     32.0
POPULAION PROJECTIONS
POPULATO  IN TE  2000 (HILL)                            36.9
STATIONAC POPMLATIO C(MLLi                             125.0
POPULAnTON  HOIEnU                                       2.0
POPULATON DEzSmrY
PER SQ. Rl.                      10.6        14.3       22.0              33.2                     65.1
PE  SQ. KM. ASRI. tAND           26.3       33.9        49.9             112.3                    124.8
POPULATION ACE STRmCTURE CZ)
0-14 URS                        42.6        44.1       46.7              46.0                     45.6
15-64 TIS                        54.2       52.4        50.3              50.6                     53.5
65 AND ABOVE                      3.0        3.0         2.9               2.9                      I.7
fPOWVUIOtt CRoWSl RaE CZ)
TOTAL                             2.4        3.0         3.3               2.8                      2.9
URBAN                             5.3        6.6         6.5               6.4                      5.1
CRUDE 6lIST  RATt (PEl THOUS)      48.5       49.1        50.0              47.2                     47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TRlOUS)      24.3       20.1        16.0              17.6                     15.0
ROSS RPODUCrlON RATE               3.1        3.1         3.2               3.3                      3.2
PANILT PANNINI
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)         ..         ..         93.6 /d
USES (ts oARRIED WE)              ..         ..          3.0 7;            3.3                      6.4
FOD AM 2RTON
INDEx or PooD PROD. PEr CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      95.0      104.0       80.0               83.3                     82.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (C OF RSQUVXUErrS)      68.0       85.0        9f.0              87.7                     98.5
PRGTEINS CR116 P  DAT)           45.0       44.0        51.0              51.9                     55.4
OF iIICII ANtlAL AND PULSE      18.0       21.0        20.0 /a           18.7                     16.5
CHLDW (AGES 1-4) DEA  RATE         32.1       25.9        16.0              23.1                     16.6
LIFE EXPECT. AT lItTl (YEARS)      40.4       44.9        50.6              47.B                     52.0
INFANT HORT. RATE (PER T3om)      152.0      125.0       97.0              119.5                    108.8
ACCSS TO SAE VATER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                             ..         13.0       34.3 /f           27.1                     42.4
URN                               ..        61.0        63.3 7            63.5                     67.5
RURAL                             .,         9.0        28.0 7f           19.3                     35.6
ACCCSS TO EJERETA DISPOSAL
(1 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..         46.5 /I           26.5                     28.9
URaN                              ..         ..         94.5 7            65.4                     57.7
RURAL                             ..         ..         40.0 7T           2D.6                     20.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        17900.0    22600.0    17740.0 /a         27901.7                  11791.7
POP. PEIR NURSUIC PERSON        11800.O jh 7280.0       3010.0 7e         3308.4                   2459.8
POP. PE HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           590.0 lL   730.0       510.0 /a         1273.6                    981.1
URBAN                            50.0       60.0        w0.0 7           428.2                    368.8
RURL                           1520.021      ..       1200.0 7;         3292.5                   4371.9
ADHISSIONS PEr HOSPTAL AID          ..         ..          ..                ..                      27.2
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSZHOLD
TOTAL                             ..          .4  /
URBAN                             3.1 ; l    3.27 
RURAL                             ..         4.5 1
AVEAGE NO. OF PELSONS/3O(
TOTAL                             ..         ..
URBAN1.8 fl                                  ..
RURAL                             ..         ..
PERCWITAGE OP DWELLINGS 11173 ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..



-26 -                                        ANNEX I
T     A    A L C 3                            PaRe  2  of 7t
TANZANIA. UNITED REP. OF- SOCIAL INDICATO  DATA SHUET
TANZANIA, UNITED REP. OF             REFERENCE GOPg (S IICNTED ZVERAGh5s 7.
HOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) b
RCENT          LOW INCOM  ArRICA,        MIDDLE TtOE
196oLk             zT9701! ES4ATELk.  SOUTH OF SAHARA     AFRICA S. oP SANARA
ADJUSTED *ROLU4N  RATIOS
PRINARY:  TOTAL                   25.0        36.0        96.0              67.8                      95.7
1AL"                   33.0        44.0       101.0               77.6                    100.0
PIEALK                 18.0        29.0        95.0               54.9                     83.2
SECONaY: TOTAL                     2.0         3.0         3.0              13.S                      17.3
MALE                    2.0         4.0         4.0               17.9                     25.0
F1KALt                  1.0         2.0         2.0                9.1                     14.6
VOCATIONAL (C or SECNARY)           22.6         ..          3.0              13.2                       5.9
PUPIL-TRACKER RATIO
PrIMIAY                           45.0        46.0        43.0              44.9                     41.1
SECONDaRY                         20.0        16.0        19.0              27.4                     25.5
m
PASSENCDI CARSITHOUSAND POP          2.5         2.5         2.6 e             3.8                     20.8
RADIO RCEIVERS/THOUSAID POP          2.0        11.1        26.4              55.t                     107.8
TV RECEIVUIRS/TOUSAND POP            ..          0.3         0.4               2.6                      20.8
NUSPAPE  ('DAW  GENEAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPMATIN               2.5         4.7        10.4               5.0                      18.4
CINNIA M1NAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA       0.5         ..          0.2               0.5                       0.4
LUA  N 
TOTAL LABOR FORC  (TOUS)          4653.0      5935.0      8221.0
PUKAE CPEC1T)                     37.2        36.7        36.0              34.2                     36.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCEW)              89.0        86.0        83.0 /f           77.5                      54.5
INDUSTSR (PERCIT)                  4.0         5.0         6.0 78            9.7                      18.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             46.4        43.9        39.6              39.3                      36.6
KALE                              59.1        56.3        52.1              50.9                      47.1
F3ULE                             34.0        31.8        28.3              28.1                      27.2
ECONOMC DPENC  RATIO                 1.0         1..         1.2               1.3                       1.3
1      DXSUINUTION
PUCEET Of PRIVATE INOx
RECEIVED ay
aGEST SE OrF ousEHOLDS                        24.7
IGEEST 20S OF  OSEO                ..         50.4        ..                 ..
us  20S or HOUSEHOLDS              ..5.8                   ..
LOEST  OS OF I S..                            16.0        ..
POW  TGT  -
ESTILATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEV. (US$ PER CAPITA)
UIA                                ..          ..        147.0 /t          165.5                     590.7
RURAL                              ..          ..         G9.0 A            95.0                     275.3
ESTXMATED RELATIVE POVERTY DINCOE
LEMV (USS PER CAPrIA)
URA                                ..          ..        125.0             113.1                     545.6
RURAL                              ..          ..         74.0 __           67.6                     201.1
ESTIKATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOM LEVL (C)
UAN                                ..          ..         10.0              36.6
AL                                 ..          ..         60.0 7            61.8
NOr AVAU.ALE,
rOT APPLICAbU
N O T 1 S
/a  The group average. for each Indicator are populatSon_-uighted arEtbhetic mao..  Covera  of countrie.
*3o0g the indicators depande on avallabllty of data and In not uniform.
tb  Unlce  otherwise noted. "bta for 1960" refer to ay year belt       1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" batn
1969 and 1971; nd data for "Noet Recent Eetluato  betwee  1981 and 1983.
/c  For NmInland Tanzania only;  td 1976;  /a 1977;  ff 1980; A  1962; A   g1.ter.d. not all practising in
tbe country; /I 1967; LL 193; /I 1971.
JUN. 1985



-27-                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
DEMMONS OF SOCAL INDICATORS
Not; AIthough dhe dais - drawn from souma generally judgd the moat authoritative and eliabk. it should aso be noaed that thcy may not be inmemamonally
comparble becam of the lack of standardizd definilions and concepts used by different countries in collecung the data. The datL are. nonhcihtin. useful to
describe order of ragnitude. indicate trnds, and characeriz certain major differenen between countries.
The reerence groups ae  ) the same eountry group of the subjet country and (2) a country group with sonewha higher average income than the country
group of the subjet country (ecept for 'High IncomecOil Exporteresgroup where "Middle Income North Afnca and Middle East- isclsoen becuse of stronger
ma-culturl affinities). In the refence group data the averages art population weighted arithmetic mean for mach ndicasor and shown only when majority
of the comturie in a group has data for that indicator. Since the coverage ocountrie among the indicators depends on the availability of dit and is not uniform,
caution must be esercised in relating averngs of one indicator to another. These averes ae only useful in companing the value ofone indicator at a time among
the country and reference groups
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                             Crude Birth Rate (pertheusaud)-Number of live births in the year
Tetf-Total surfacc area comprising land area and inland watcrs;    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                          Crude Death Rate (per trohsand)-Number of deaths in the year
AgricheraiL-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or      per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 dala.
permanently for crops, pasturcs. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproduction Rate-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
prcsent age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averagcs ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)GNP per capita estimates at current            in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World       Fail Plaing-Acceprors, Annal (thoussdr)-Annual num-
Bank Aims (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                              ber ofacceptorsofbirth-control devices under auspicesofnational
ENERGY CONSUMMON  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                       family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.         Fondly Plasning-lsers (percent ofntriend sowten-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-    tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                         of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some eountries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VfIAL STATISTlCS                                    groups.
Total Poplatien, Mid-Year (thowsJadf-As of July 1; 1960, 1970,     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Inde ofFoodProduction Per Caa (1969-71 = 1)- Indcx of per
Urban Popuaion (pcent of totafl-Ratio of urban to total            capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countres 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.          include primary commodities (e.g. sugacne instead of sugr)
Populion Projectio                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000,     excluded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on     vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parametrs     on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at fivc-year intervals on the basis of gencralized   1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Suipply ofCaloris (pernt ofreqadrements)- -comput-
Ssafionarv population-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-   ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Availabkl supplies comprise domestic produc-
fcrtility rates have simultaneously rcmained at replacement level  tion, imports Icss expons, and changcs in stock. Net supplies
(nct reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture, quantities uscd in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also     food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                         waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenrwn-ls the tendency for population growth to       Per Capita Supply ofProtein (grams per dy)-Protein content or
continue beyond the timc that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is mcasured as   provide for minimnum allowances of 60 grams of total protcin per
a ratio of the ultimatc stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 brams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remnains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards,are lower than those ot
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
ftp.Lton D&nir                                                     average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-       Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tans) of total area; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.                    Per Capita Protein Supp  From Animal and Pulse- Protein supply
Per sqJcm. agrkicuural land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 196! -65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                               1970 and 1977 data.
Poputio  Age Strunwe (perment)-Children (0- 14 years). work-       Child (axes 1-4) Death Rate (per thousand) -- N um ber of deat hs of
ingage(l5-64 years). and retired (65 yearsand over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rote (perceAt)-rotal--Annual growth rates of     from lifc tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data-
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.       HEALTH
Ibpuaion Growth Rate (perceat--ar -Anntnual growth rates           Life Expectancy at Birth (years)- -Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970483 data.        infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortality for all people



-28-                                      ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at the time ofof its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire;  Puptl-teaeher Rafio - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numben of
lnfjwr Mortalty Rate (par thoasad)-Number of infants who die   teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one yea r or age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                  CONSUMPTION
Aacc  to Safte Wafer (pea      popfou         l w,   ad          Paeger Cowr (per thousand popiedou)-Passenger cars com-
rat-Number Of peopte (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable   prise motor cars seadng less than eight penons excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected   Radio Receiaers (per thousandpopation.I-All types of receivers
borehokes, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their fespec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public rountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 20D meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable acss of that house. In rural areas    not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable accs wouw imply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  rVReCmErs (pfr thxoandpopalleton)-TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                           to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensed TV
Access to Excrete Disposal (percent of popalatiou)-rotal, urban.    mrceivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
-l wra-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by     int        C
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Ne wspar CirrAo (er t   s d ppionHShows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation or -daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-    periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
bome systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It isconsidered to be daily" ifit appearsat least four timesa week.
Population per Phypsician-pulation divided by number of prac-   Cinma Awtm Asttendne per Capita per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number or tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popultion per Nusing Persoan-lpulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female grduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                        LABOR FORCE
Popultio per Hospital Bed-total, erba, ad *aiae-Population       Tetal Labor Force (thousanduj-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number Of  luding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
0 spcili students. etc., covering population or all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialized  vroscutisaentcmaal:1W   90ad16  aa
hospitals and rehabilitation centers Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemnently staffed by at klast one ph) sician. Establishments prov-  Feh k (percent)- -Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospital.  force.
however include health and medical centers not pemanently staffed  Agrieutrwe (percent)--Labor force in farming. rorestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurse. midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          indusry (peren0)-Lahor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admiioms per Hospit Bed-Total number of admissions to or         facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage ortotal labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Aeicipation Rate (perceimv-torak, mul  femau-Participation
HOUSING                                                         pr activity rates are computed as totaL male, and female labor force
Avrage Si,e of Hosehl (perns per houseld)-totaL, jwhn.          as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
andnual-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are frorm national sources.
Average Number of Persons per Room-toral, urba, and rural-       Economi Dependency Rado-Ratio or population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room  in all urban, and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwellings wth Eketrkity-total, urba, and rural-     errcentage of Tatf Disposabk income (bao  in cash and kid)-
Conventional dwellings with ekectricity in livingquarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwelings respectively.          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsted E,rollenr Rados                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primrv school - total. male and fenmakGross total. male and     levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimtned Absolte Poverty lncne Level ( US$ per capita)-orban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural--Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-rood requirements is not affordable.
are reflccted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esrimated Reltive Poverty Inome Level US( per cap ita)-ronl
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rwal-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, male and femle-Computed as above:     living in urban areas.
secondary educaion requires at least rour years of approved pri-  Etired Po,ulnrinn  elow Absobute Poverty income Level (per-
mary instruction: provides general. vocational, or teacher training  cenft-trban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocational Enrolbleni (percent of sccondeary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
dons include technical, industrial. or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                               June 1985



- 29 -
AN= I
bpatlcn    : 21.0 uion (1964)                                                                 ftp   o  7
GNQP 1r Cita: US240 (1983)
TR1MA - UaIfC D)ICAIS a/
hD<mt                       Am]l bal Growth Ratn (C)
mInicator              (nd.111o UBS at
cunt prActua)                    1                              Projn
1984       1978  1979  1990  1981  1982  1963   lip'/  19_/ 199
kaosa dometic product ./         4,497.1      2.6   0.9   0.6  -1.3   0.9  -0.9       2.2      3.4   4.8
AgriciLture                    2,418.7      1.0   1.2   2.8   2.3   2.6   0.9       2.9      4.4   5.6
Tahitry                          462.5    -0.4  -4.1 -10.8 -13.8  -7.2 -16.0   -7.9         2.5   4.0
Servie.                        1,616.0      5.6   3.2   3.3  -0.4   3.0   2.1       4.3      2.5   4.0
Qxuimt1on                        4,675.7     10.1  -7.9   6.8  -6.0   0.7   0.1       5.8      7.1   3.2
Oaa lnnvestnit                     717.8      9.2  20.2 -13.6   4.3   0.8 -2D.5    -9.8    -5.9   5.0
TEports of QGS                     472.9    -6.3  12.2   0.6  18.7 -18.5 -17.7   -10.8        0.6  10.2
Iqmorts of GNWS                   921.8      31.5 -17.4  -0.4  -7.9  -3.9 -19.7       5.3    11.6  -0.8
GOnRm dnestic sainps               266.8    -60.8  139.6 -29.0  34.3   9.9 -14.8  -54.2   -9.6  15.1
GDP deflator (1978 - 100)                   100.0 110.8  130.9  154.7  185.4 183.2   180.0   191.7 255.5
FchiYbge rate (T.Sh. per US$)                 7.7   8.3   8.2   8.3   9.3  11.1    15.3    17.5  17.5
Shre of GDP at 1i*et Prices (%)       k'erqe Amwal I nreae (O)
(at aurent prices)                 (at contat prices)
1978  1980  1982  1984  1985  1990    1976-dO  1990-84  1985-90
Gross dmiestic prbuct 'l             100.0  100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0       2.0      0.5      4.3
Agricultuze                         40.0  41.6  47.6  48.9  48.4  50.5          1.4      2.1      5.2
Inungtrv                            16.6  14.8  11.5   9.4   7.0   6.9        -2.2    -10.8       3.9
Servioes                            32.4  33.2  31.6  32.7  34.4  37.0         4.5       2.7      3.4
Conumpution                           91.5  90.5  89.3  94.6  99.4  84.5          1.9      0.7      3.9
Gross invesuent                       19.5  22.4  20.2  14.5  13.8  15.7         4.8    -7.6        2.0
Ebxorts of C2OfS                      15.8  12.7   8.1   9.6   9.8  12.0        -2.2      -8.5      9.3
Thyorts of cm4FS                      27.5  25.7  17.6  18.6  23.0  12.3        -2.3      -8.1      2.6
Gross domestic sEangs                  7.8   9.4  10.7   5.5   0.6  15.4          4.4    -0.5       2.6
As X of GOP
FY81  }CF83  F186 b/
PUBLIC FDIA1
Orrent ne                             18.4  18.7  23.4
O.trt epenxditures                    20.0  22.2  25.3
SurpbU  (+) or deficit (-)            -1.6  -3.5  -1.9
Cpital exp diLij                      10.2   6.9   6.5
Fbreign firacig                        5.1   4.0   3.1
1975-82 1982-85 1985-90
OnE    DICA1
GNPgrowth rate (Z)                     2.8     2.1      4.4
GNP per capta grath rate (C)          -0.5    -1.2 d/  1.1
1CMR                                   8.4    10.3      3.8
Mgal savnp rate                        0.4    -0.2      0.06
Tq2Ot elastiaty                       -0.82   -0.7      0.6
FAtlEste.
C/ At usaket price; conaxt srwe eqxreasd at factor cost.
IHY 1983-65.



- 30 -
AN= I
P qata       : 21.0 =Mijm (1984)                                                                         Pag 6 of 7
GP wr  opta: US240 (1983)
TA?rA  -   Um .L nwA  s/
hwt                      kstl RPl Q          aowtb tt  (2) at coutart prices)
Imlicatos          (Idm     US$ at
-nt prim)                           Actual                                   !mItlto
1984       1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984b/   1985/J  1990
eKWaL 1RA
lfrdlbIise exports            366.7      -3.5    14.5    -1.8    15.7   -12.7   -14.1   -10.7         0.9    10.6
rjor p diry poducts          265.8      -9.8     2.8    -8.5    33.5   -16.3   -18.7   -14.6         2.6    12.1
Others                      1O0.9      16.4    43.3      9.9   -36.7      9.8      7.6     3.3    -3.9       4.4
lhrendise  inparts            839.3      32.6   -17.0    -2.3    -6.3       1.5   -21.8       1.0    12.9    -1.1
Foodgraiz                    72.7      -0.6   -48.2   286.3    -7.9    31.9   -28.0    -8.3         0.1   -49.7
Patrols..                   227.4       4.1   -18.6    27.1   -15.9    -2.8        3.5     1.0      4.9      2.2
Mwhinery and sqUIpuimt      251.3      52.1    -7.8   -25.5    10.4   -12.5   -35.3    -0.9    10.1          2.1
Others                      287.9      20.1   -22.4    -7.7   -17.2    12.6   -19.5        6.9    26.6       3.3
PRICES
Hq)ort priOe in.de             93.6      87.6    94.0   100.0    96.3    80.9    86.3    93.6    82.7   103.8
Tw3ort priCe index             91.2      69.4    86.5   100.0   100.9    95.7    92.4    91.2    89.7   114.9
Tena  of Crad  ndeX           102.6    126.1   108.6   100.0    95.5    84.5    93.4   102.6    92.2    90.4
mqmpuit:ion of ?krchamliue Trade (2)              Average Anmul Increse (%)
(at arrent prices)                           (at consaCt prices)
1970     1975    1980    1985    1990            1970-75 1976-80  1980-85 1985-90
EXports                         100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0               -4.2    -1.8    -7.1    10.1
ki-or prihmzy products         59.2      66.3    55.6    61.7    72.9              -1.0    -5.8    -8.2    12.2
OthErs                         40.8      33.7    44.4    38.3    27.1              -10.5     6.7    -2.3      3.1
Cqorts                          100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 1.9    -1.8    -4.8      2.3
Foodgrains                      7.7      17.7    11.7      6.5     4.5              23.4    -6.2    -5.1    -8.5
Petroleum                       3.1      8.0    22.9    24.3    17.3                -4.0     0.8    -1.3      2.9
-rvhiry and equlpust           35.2      31.1    34.5    29.1    29.4               -1.1     2.2   -11.0      2.2
Otbrs                          54.0      43.2    30.9    40.1    48.8                0.9    -5.8    -0.7      3.6
gare of Trade with       Shane of Trade with            Shae of Trade idth
Industrial Cbztrles (%)   DueloPi   bt    (2)   Capital Srplus Oil Eqcorts (%)
1975     1980    1984    1975    1980    1984    1975           19810         1984
DIdCf(  OF Ta EE
Exprts                         47.4      57.6    60.7    48.9    35.8    32.2        3.6         8.7          6.3
lewrs                          58.0      67.3    63.2    34.8    26.5    32.1        6.2        10.7          2.4
a/ Data are for all Twudsa (1dlnd and Znzibar)
'U/  Hite.



- 31 -
npaIatiti    :21.0 mim1 (1984)                                                                       *p  7 of 7
GN Per Wita: US=240 (1983)
TWUARrA -   WRIE CR FMl.. EC              CAFITA  MI) Mr
(Milo  15a at c      t pdr)
Wulicato                                       Actm I                                Pnrection
1970    1975   1990    1981    1982    1983   i        P/  1985/  1990
BAAM OF PNAMl
'port of Eods ard trvia                 346     518     684     759    53D      487     474     456     911
of wh:ich  trdhuldee f.o.b.           252     376     505     563    413    379       367     327     699
liqxrt of gods "  uaviw                 375    840   1,39D   1.288   1,173      904     934  1,107   1.485
of wich. Mnbddio  c.i.f.              318     770   1,2     1,162   1,095     819     89      947   1.413
Net tmndes b/                             6    -10       19      22      24      14      59     127      43
O.wen  acmt bulance                     -24    -332   -676    -5M    -619   -403    -402    -524    -632
OffECEAl grant DoiptS                     7     112    109      109      96      90     100    108       18D
M & LT lom   (t)                         73     171     227     259     290     192     124    -19      242
OFfiA1                                 72     171     130     167    231    189       111    -19      262
Private                                 2       -      97      92      59       3      13       0     -2D
Other cipitel Cl                         -9      66     337     107    2D2    122       173    425      250
O&eein reserves   _incm         ) d/   -47    -17         3      32      31       0       5      10    .40
1 terwationxil rese        d/            99     130      99    I17       44      44      39      90     350
ksemn r     m-  tbi i2oru dl              3.7     2.0     1.0     1.1    0.5    0.6       0.6     1.0     3.0
ECZ3tL CAPl    AND 1M
Gros disbur^wm    scts                   60     344     297     379    351      394     399
Offical grets                           6     112     109     109      96      90     100
Gnoesaunal  1                          40     191     110    227      187     116     143
w cq                                 2D      88      2D      69      53      14      38
amEC                                  -       -       3      17       2       -      22
IDA                                   9      20      35      84      65      65      59
Otber                                11      83      52      57      67      36      23
Non-umcenslnaal loomz                  14      41      78      43      68     188      96
O-ffdcl 1e orteftn                      -       1      27      11      29     126      45
NIID                                    5      40      22      17      10      25      16
Ode mtilaterl                           -       -       -       4       6       7      11
private                                 9       -      29      11      23      3D      24
1Kt*nsl Debt
Debt ontsadAir aa d dMiured              323      798    1,339    1,497    1,647    1.820   2,594
Offidal                                193      747    1.261    1,411    1,526    1,705     o.
Private                                129       51       77       86      121      115   na.
lkxilsbursd debt                         408      419      919      906      874      725    593
Debt erice
Total servic paymena                      26       29       51       47       53       78     134
Tnrtret                                 10       11       31       27       33       38      12
Payent  Zeuta                              7.5      5.9      7.2      5.2     10.0     16.0   28.3
hierae irnmt rate an new lom  (years)   1.6           3.0      2.4      2.7      2.5      2.5   na.
Offidal                                    1.5      3.0      1.9      2.7      1.8      2.0  na..
Private                                    7.0      -        9.4      -        7.5     13.6  na.
Aver inurity of nw loom  (years)            38.8    32.6      28.7    28.3      31.9     36.0   na.
Offidal                                   39.7     32.6    29.9    28.3    34.7        37.3   na.
Private                                    7.2      -       10.9      -       12.0     11.0   na.
As Z of Debt  zataud_
at =D of
19B3    1984 */
Mabezity s*ucture of debt autstmvi.n
Motrities due iitbin 5 ya                                              32.6    37.4
MIkt.rtda due uitbn 10 yeiru                                           59.1    61.5
Interest str:ture of debt outstanding
iterest due uidtbn fIrst yewr                                           1.2      3.1
a/  Woiute.
T,   Edatiw  afficia  grant reoipte.
T!/ li       muppiers' credits, 3W  credit, Wbrld  Da   ad OPE        c    las, DF Tret Fhd, erau ad
nfasse, and build-p of arreanrs.
W ithout BW credit.



-32 -
Page 1 of 2
lUE SrAM  OF TlE BAW KIP GM   OPl Cl  IN TAZANIA
A. SfAMr OF BANK ILDa  AND mI  aEDIlS
AS OF MARai 31, 1986
Fiscal                                                    hwlixt less cance3latim
1n./Cr. No.  Year  BDroer                Purpose                 Ban       IV              k isbusmi
14 LoEns, two Thrd Wxd  Loans, and 38 Credits                    192.28   41.47    420.02
fully disbirsed 1/
Cr.   801-TA   78   Tazaia        Seclti Cashewnmt                                  24.50      3.30
In.  1607-TA  78   Tanzania       Nbrugoro 'btile                 25.00                        5.14
Cr.  833-TA   78   Tanzania       MDrOgOzo Textile                                  20.00      0.40
Q@.  860-TA   79    Tanzania      Tourism  lbilitation                               12.50      1.15
Cr.  861-TA   79    Tanzaiia      Sixth Educatimn                                    12.00     5.77
In.  1650-TA  79    Tanzania      Rdfindi Rlp and Naper           30.00                        2.43
Cr.   876-TA  79    Tkanzaia      Fifth  gbweay                                     20.50      3.13
In.  1750-TA   80   TIB           Tlaznia .nean t Bak             25.00                        2.58
Cr.  987-TA   80   Tanzania       Tanaa Rural Dev. Bak                               7.00      5.09
Cr.  1007-TA   80    Ta nia       Pyrethrum                                         10.00      5.33
Cr. 1015-TA   80   Tanzalia       Grain Storage and Milirg                          43.00     37.03
Cr. 1037-TA   80   Tanzarda        malbloxlder lba                                  14.00      9.59
Ck. 1056-TA   81   Tanzaia        Seventh FEducatioa                                25.00     19.35
Cr. 1060-TA   81   Tizania        Tadcbical AssisLarice In                          11.00      4.77
Cr. 1070-TA   81    Tanzania      Coonzt Pilot                                       6.80      3.33
Cr. 1173-TA   82  Tlnzania        Talecimicatmo_s 1                                 27.00      5.22
Cr. 1206-TA   82   Tanwania       Tecb2ical Assistanne III                          12.00      3.69
Cr. 1229-TA   82   Tsznmia        Sao aEll Forestry-Plhse II                        12.00      6.62
Cr. 1312-TA   83    Tanzania      Dar-es- Sala  Sumrage and                         22.50     14.01
Smitation
Cr. 1370-TA   83    Tanzania    Nbfindi Eblp and Paper MUll                         18.00     10.05
Tach. Asst. & Eheq3y Cowv.
Cr.  1371-TA  83    Tanzania      Coal Engizieerirg                                  6.30      5.49
Cr. 1405-TA   84   Tanzania       Mtera Hydroelectric Power                         35.00      15.61
Cr. 1524-TA   85    Tanzania    Teckvical. Assistance IV                            10.00     10.08
Cr. 1536-TA   85   Tanzania    Pbrt Rehablitation                                  27.00     23.46
Cr. 1604-TA   85    Tanzania      Petroleun Sectwr Techfnical                        8.00      8.46
Assistance
Total                                                272.28   41.47    804.12    211.08
of wtich bas been repaid                            79.64    4.52     10.65
Total nom outstanding                              192.64   36.95    793.47
Anuut sold                               6.29
of which has been repaid              6.29
Total now beld by Bank and IDA 2/                  192.64   36.95    793.47
Total undisbursed                                   10.15    -       200.93    211.08
l/ In addition, Tanzania bas been the beneficiary of 11 loans totalling US$244.8 miLlion which were
exterded for tbe developwnit of the cnman servioes and development bank operated regLonaly by
Tanzawia, Kenya and Uganda through their association n the former East Africa Caummity.
2/ Net of esxclhge adjustments.



- 33 -                    ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1986
Fiscal                                                 Amount in US$ Million
Year          Obligor          Type of Business         Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar       Food Processing          3.96   0.70    4.66
1964     Company
1978     Highland Soap and    Soap Manufacture          1.37   0.37    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products        Household Utensils       1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
1985     Amboni Limited        General Manufacturing   3.40      -      3.40
Total gross commitments                  10.06   1.25   11.31
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   4.43   0.70    5.13
Total commitments now held by IFC        5.63   0.55    6.18
Total undisbursed                       1.10      -     1.10



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:            1 year
(b) Project Prepared by:                     Government and Consultants
(c) Project first identified:                 1982
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:          May 13, 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:      March 7, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:           July 1986
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
NONE.
III. Special Conditions
A. Effectiveness
Signing of the Norwegian grant agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 63).
B. Other
(1) By January 1, 1987, the Government would submit to the
Association for its review a draft of a study to be carried
out on overall transport sector strategy and policy (para.
32).
(2) The Government would not make changes in the agreed transport
investment program without prior consultation with the
Association; and TRC would proceed with the purchase of
locomotives only after the economic feasibility had been
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Government and the
Association (para. 34).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(3) By December 31, 1986, the Government would introduce regula-
tions to reform axle road control, and would adopt a plan for
enforcesent by March 31, 1987 (para. 37).
(4) In regard to road transport policy, it was agreed that:
(i) allocation of inputs to be financed under the trucking
component of the proposed project would be based on specific
criteria related to immediate trucking needs, with no less
than 65Z being allocated to the private sector (para. 60);
(ii) inputs financed by foreign exchange from Government's own
resources would be allocated to the most efficient users based
upon efficiency criteria to be prepared by September 30, 1986;
(iii) inputs supplied through official channels would be
subject to both import duty and sales tax; (iv) road freight
tariffs for inter-regional movements would be based upon bids
whenever feasible; and (v) road freight tariffs on intra-
regional movements would be based upon the costs of providing
transport services (para. 47).
(5) By December 31, 1986 and annually thereafter, the Government
would furnish to the Association for its review a program for
road rehabilitation, as well as institutional arrangements and
funding for maintenance of the rehabilitated roads (para. 54).
(6)  By December 31, 1986, the Government would submiL new
proposals to the Association for its review on the civil
engineering course at the Dar-es-Salazm Technical College and
wyould, by July 1, 1987, appoint counterparts for each of the 9
instructors (para. 57).
(7) Cofinancing arrangements with AfDB and DANIDA to be completed
at the latest by December 31, 1986 (para. 63).



|  ,-Yj- r.  M ;  a0Ll ' ' e'~~~~~~~S-   C  'S   A<0;                   -/   A-~~~~ -'    -      r  . N,9 IN Kl  
32~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~   -  $K*p~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                SUOGNOAS  ~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  jO0R1RI
|.-- r-             TA                                      :,I                 YA                                    0
*005000 S,.  .}M                                    ATUtOR                                                                                               T CF  ,    P>\Q)  ANZANIA
A                                                                                          CT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\ U       \      v RU ND,OR I+ j                                                                                                                                     Z-A>Zp       ,  S j A g     3~  3^I1ECN  ICE
RWANDA  ~~~   .      ~           ~          'N.                         K  ~~')N-                               KENYA~                      TANZAlNIA
/ F L << X r _Qa= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- SU_UN_
ro__/  9e 'A                                                                        't< -                           -W ~  Cf< |r 1'ID,
~~~T-MWA                   'N-                                A~~~~~~~~~~~~~SIT HGHA
-,  -                                                     )      VKUTT04'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(EABLTAIN)POJC
- ' /A,     SUN4G                                    .A ,. OR'
'          3  o K KI E3M MIE             AAI        (4                          D -. "g                                                         /         SIT    HIGHWAYu\{X _    _ ,
/!.                                    .                        I'~~ .'- -REHABITATIJ PROJEC s                                                                                       T _
! H^E-'9" M. . ._,r & _ M O Z A M   B  I  Q  U  E w3a .A
Z A I R E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNEITEUNE KVOSBN
/   I  T~~                                                                                                                                  KAMALAWOS
IKURW                              MAKE ZEAVICES IFQOUEK
ZAIRE  K      'ERING   ,SE~~~~~TO.                       JNN~~~FT(                     7-~~jCbAS                        SCETOULEK KERVICT ALOKT$ML 19M



l



