Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5922-TA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE UNITED REPUBLIC 3F TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
April 2, 1986
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
Projects Department
Transportation Division
This document kas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    =         Tanzanian Shilling (T Sh)
T Sh 1.00                        =         US$0.0609
US$ 1.00                         -         T Sh. 16.415
US$ 1.00                         =         SDR 1.155840
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                      =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (Cm)              =         10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)               =         35.3  cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 =         0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km2)                   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (mt)                =         2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONJYMS
ATC          =          Air Tanzania Corporation
AfDF         =          African Development Fund
CIDA         =           Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA       =          Danish International Development Agency
EAC          =           East African Conuunity
EAHC         =           East Africa Harbors Corporation
EARHA        =          East African Railways and
Harbors Administration
EEC          =           European Economic Community
MCW          =           Ministry of Communications and Works
MOE          =          Ministry of Education
NCC                      N National Construction Council
NTC          =           National Transport Corporation
ODA          =           Overseas Development Administration of the
United Kingdom
SIDA         =          Swedish International Development Agency
TANZAM       =          Tanzania Zambia Highway
TAZARA       =           Tanzania Zambia Railways Authority
THA          =          Tanzania Harbors Authority
TRC          =          Tanzania Railway Corporation
TRM          =          Trunk Road Maintenance
USAID        =           United States Agency for International
Development
voc          =          vehicle operating costs
vpd          =           vehicles per day
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR omCIL USE ONLY
TANMANIIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIXTH HIGHWAY :REHABILITATION) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE *................................        i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...o..........*........      ... .....  il-v
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background .................................................   1
B. The Transport System ........  e............................   1
C. Role, Organization, and Performance .....       ..............    2
D.  Government Objectives and Policy in the Sector       .............  3
E.  Transport Planning and Coordination ........................   3
F.  Transport Investments .... o ..    ...............................   4
G.  Experience with Past Lending in the Transport Sector .......  6
h.  Rationale for Bank Group Involvement .......................   6
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.  The Road Network ..    .................................        8
B. The Road Transport Industry ................ ............        9
C.  Organization of the Highway Subsector .................... ..  11
D.  Ministry of Communications and Works  .....     .................  12
E.  The Highway Investment Program (FY1986-88) ....... .......... 16
F.  Local Contracting Industry ................ .................  17
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives ...............  ..................................  18
B.  Description     ................................................  18
C.  Project Costs and Financing .......      ......................... 25
D.  Implementation ........... o .................................  28
E.  Procurement ................................................   28
F. Disbursements       ..............................................  29
G.  Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting Requirements .......... . 30
H. Environmental Impact .      ...........   ............  31
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.  Project Benefits and Beneficiaries .32
B. Economic Returns              . . .32
C. Sensitivity Analysis and Risks .35
V.   AGREEMENrS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMHENDATIONS ................... 38
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission in June 1985
by Messrs. K.V.S. Nathan (Mission Leader and Engineer), M. Dick (Senior
Economist) and R. Balasuperamaniam (Consultant), and Ms. A. Fantaye
(Project Assistant). Mesdames Brigida Arriaza-de-Figueroa and
Yvonne Hensley assisted in processing the report.
Tbis documnt ha  restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not othfwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriratoo.



Annexes                                                                 Page
I-I    Transport Investment Program (FY1986-88) *..s.......s....ee..   41
1-2    Experience with Past Lending in the Transport Sector see.....   44
II-1   Proposals for a Road TraDsport Policy and Freight Rates and
Bus Fares                                               .......   47
II-2   Comparison of 1983 Road User Charges and Road Expenditures in
Selected Eastern Africsn Countries                                52
III-1  Gravel Roads Rehabilitation Program .........................   53
III-2  Equipment Rehabilitation Program ..................    55
III-3  Outline Terms of Reference - Equipment Rehabilitation Program   56
III-4  Outline Terms of Reference - Technical Assistance to MCW ...    58
III-5 Assistance to Dar-es-Salasm Technical College .ooooee.o.-.oo   61
III-6  Training Program - Morogoro Training School ...........           63
III-7  Assistance to the Local Contracting Industry          .           64
III-8  Assistance to the Truckin& Industry               .               69
I1-9  Outline Terms of Reference - Feasibility Studies and
Detailed Engineering ......................    70
III-10 Outline Terms of Reference - Agricultural Feeder Roads Study    72
III-11 Project Cost Tables                      .                        75
III-12 Project Implementation Schedule ................                  76
III-13 Steps to Initiate Project Execution *.                            77
III-14 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .....    82
III-15 Budgeting and Accounting Procedures               .               83
IV-1   Economic Analysis             ........................ - -        87
Charts
1.   Organization of the Ministry of Communications and Works.
2.   Organization of the National Transport Corporation.
3.   Organization of the Ministry of Education.
4.   Organization of the National Construction Council.
TANZANIA - Sixth Highway (Rehabilitation) Project (IBRD 19091R1).



TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (UREBILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT.
Documents in the Project File
I.   Reports Related to Transportation in Tanania
A.  A Proposal for a National Road Transport Policy - Trucks and
Buses, National Transport Corporation, July 1985.
B.  Transport and Marketing of Agricultural Products in Tanzania,
H.L. Beenhakker and N. Bruzelius, February 1985.
C.   Study of Road Transport Policy and Practice, M. Mason and
J. Gilling, December 1985.
D.  System for the Collection and Analysis of Road Transport Data,
National Transport Corporation, 1984.
E.  Proposal for a Policy and Procedures for Fixing Freight Rates and
Bus Fares, National Transport Corporation, 1985.
TI. Reports and Studies Related to the Project
A.   Final Report, Feasibility Study and Road Maintenance Program,
TANZAK Highway, Renardet - Sauti, May 1983 in three volumes.
B.   Final Report, Detailed Engineering Study, Rehabilitation of the
TANZAM Highway, Renardet - Sauti, August 1983 in three volumes.
C.   Pre-investment Study for the Development of Small Scale
Construction Enterprises in Tanzania, International Labor Office,
December 1983.
D.   Report on the Local Contracting Industry, R. Balasuperamaniam,
Consultant, June 1985.
E.   Final Report, Three-Year Road Regravelling and Rehabilitation
Program, Renardet - Sauti, January 1986 in four volumes.
F.   Uchunguzi Wa Mahitaji Ya Wafanyakazi Wa Daraja La Jure Na La
Kati, Wizar Ya Maendeleo Ya Utumishi Na Uendeshaji Kazi (Ministry
of Labor and Manpower Development), January 1984.
III. Other Documents
A.   Manual for Project Management of Foreign Financed Construction
Projects in Tanzania, Ministry of Comunications and Uorks, May
1985.



- ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    -i
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (RERABILITATION) PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The United Republic of Tanzania.
Beneficiaries:           The Ministry of Communications and Works, Ministry
of Education, National Construction Council, and
the National Transport Corporation.
Credit Amount:           SDR 43.3 million (US$50.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Cofinancing:             The United Republic of Tanzania is arranging
cofinancing as follows: grants from the Government
of Denmark-DANIDA (US$2 million equivalent) and
Norway (US$6.9 million equivalent); and a loan
from the African Development Fund (US$19.4 million
equivalent).
Project Objectives
and Benefits:            The project would initiate a program to help
reduce transport as a constraint facing the
Tanzanian economy through rehabilitation of the
most important sections of the highway network.
The deteriorated state of the Tanzanian highway
system is a serious bottleneck to agricultural
production in particualr. Given the importance of
the agricultural sector and the key role that
agriculture plays in the country's economy, an
efficient transport system is vital. The project
would reduce the cost of operation of road
transport, both freight and passengers, increase
its reliability, speed up its flow, and provide
all weather use of the priority sections of the
gravel road network. An important project
objective is to improve the system of road
maintenance by encouraging the Ministry of
Communications and Works (MCW) to carry out major
maintenance and rehabilitation works by contract
rather than by force account. It would also
increase the capabilities of the local contracting
industry, provide assistance to expand the
capacity and efficiency of the trucking industry
and increase the availability of trained engineers
in Tanzania.



- iii -
Project Description:     The project comprises the following components:
(i) a road rehabilitation program consisting of
the rehabilitation of about 295 km of the TANZAN
highway and 700-1000 kms of gravel roads, (ii) an
equipment rehabilitation program, (iii) a
maintenance spares supply program to the trucking
industry, (iv) assistance to the local contracting
industry, (v) technical assistance and consulting
services for construction supervision,
agricultural feeder roads study and feasibility
studies and detailed engineering, and (vi)
training.
Risks:                   The msin risks are institutional.  MCW's own
maintenance capability, as well as that of
domestic contractors who are expected to
participate under the project, may develop more
slowly than anticipated; however, the project
would ensure a continuing supply of trained
manpower and encourage a policy of executing
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works by
contract (with technical assistance and training
to the local contracting industry), thus allowing
MCW to concentrate its efforts on routine
maintenance. Implementation of the gravel roads
rehabilitation program may be slower than
expected. This risk is minimized by annually
reviewing the program to identify both technical
and financial problems and means to resolve them
in a timely fashion.



- iv-
Summary of Project Cost:
Local     Foreign     Total
.... ...US$ Million.6..0...
Road Rehabilitation                      21.2        42.2       63.4
Equipment Rehabilitation                  0.3         3.9        4.2
Assistance to the Trucking
Industary                               0.1         6.2        6.3
Technical Assistance to MCW,
Office Equipment, & Supplies            0.1         1.1        1.2
Training                                  0.6         5.3        5.9
Assistance to Local
Contracting Industry                    0.4         1.4        1.8
Other Consulting Services                 0.2         1.3        1.5
Base Cost                                22.9        61.5       84.4
Contingencies: (i) Physical               1.6         4.4        6.0
(ii) Price                 4.9       12.4       17.3
6.5       16.8       23.3
Total Project Costa/                     29.4        78.3      107.7
Financing Plan:
IDA                                     -         50.0        50.0
AfDF                                    -          19.4       19.4
Kingdom of Norway                       -          6.9         6.9
DANIDA                                  -          2.0         2.0
Government                             29.4        -          29.4
Total                                  29.4        78.3      107.7
a/   Identifiable taxes and duties amount to US$7.6 million equivalent and
total project cost, net of taxes and duties, is about US$100.1 million
equivalent.



v 
Estimated Disbursements (USS million):
FY1987 FY1988 FY1989 FY1990 FY1991 FY1992
Annual                6.5    12.6    12.6    10.0      6.6     1.7
Cumulative           6.5    19.1    31.7    41.7    48.3    50.0
Economic Rate of Return: About 38Z
Map: IBRD No. 19091R1



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Tanzania has a large territory (945,000 km2) with a widely
dispersed population of 19.8 million and a low population density (20
persons per square kilometer). Populatior' growth is estimated at 3.4Z per
annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively high levels. About
42% of the total land area is devoted to agriculture. More than 802 of the
population lives in rural areas and is dependent directly or indirectly on
agriculture. The agricultural sector accounts for over 45% of GNP, 90% of
employment, and roughly 85% of total foreign exchange earnings. The
industrial sector is still small, contributing under 13% of GDP. The large
government and service sectors are responsible for about 30X of GDP.
Exports continue to be dominated by the traditional primary products which
include coffee, cotton, cashew nuts, sisal, tea, and tobacco. The economy
has stagnated since 1979. The GD? in 1983 was virtually at the 1979
level. The main reasons have been an overall decline in agricultural and
Industrial production barely offset by increases in the service sector. At
the same time inflation has continued at a fairly high level, fluctuating
between 25 and 30 percent per year.
1.02      The economy and with it the transport sector have been adversely
affected by external and internal force3. Externally, the two oil price
hikes in 1973 and 1979 had major effects on the terms of trade and thus
availability of free foreign exchange. The break up of the East African
Community (EAC) and the Ugandan war imposed additional strains on the
economy. Internally, the build-up of parastatals beyond their managerial
capability and attempts to direct economic activity through control of
tariffs and ad hoc instri'ments for allocation of foreign exchange have
exacerbated the situation. The reasons for the unsatisfactory performance
of the economy are described in detail in the Country Economic Memorandum
(Report No. 5019-TA) and are summarizerd in Part I of the Report and
recommendations to the President being issued concurrently. In the last
two years, there has been movement away from rigid regulation of the
economy. This has led to a substantial increase in imports of a wide range
of goods and benefitted the transport sector through imports of motor
vehicles and spare parts.
B. The Transport System
1.03      Transport movements over long distances are characteristic of
Tanzania's transport infrastructure. It plays a vital role in the economy,
particularly in agriculture, for internal distribution and marketing of
food crops as well as export of cash crops such as cotton, coffee, tea,
sisal, and sugar. The transport infrastructure also serves as an important
corridor for the external trade of four neighbouring land-locked countries
- Zambia, Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. Roads are the predominant transport
mode overall with railways taking a major share of the important
import/export traffic.
1.04      The transport system comprises (i) a road network of about 82,000
kms, (ii) two railway systems - the Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC)



- 2 - 
operating about 2,640 kms of track and the Tanzania/Zambia Railway
Authority (TAZARA, jointly owned by Tanzania and Zambia) with 970 kms of
track within Tanzanian territory, and (iii) a port system operated by
Tanzania Harbours Authority (THA), centered on Dar-es-Salaam with minor
ports at Tanga and Mtwara on the Indian Ocean, Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika
and Mwanza (plus other satellite ports) on Lake Victoria. Additionally,
there are two international airports (Dar-es-Salaam and Kilimanjaro),
eleven other paved airports, and over 50 unpaved ones. A pipe line carries
crude oil and products from Dar-es-Salaam to Ndola in Zambia.
1.05      The basic transport network links all the main production centers
but with varying degrees of efficiency. Only about 3,000 kms or 30% of the
trunk roads are paved and generally, except for the recently constructed
roads, most of the trunk roads have deteriorated through lack of
maintenance. The two rail systems are also in varying degrees of disrepair
due also to poor maintenance of tracks, locomotives, and wagons. The
feeder road systems, for the most part, consist of mere tracks. At the
root of the sectoral problems has been an inadequate number of trained and
experienced personnel, weak management, and an acute scarcity of foreign
exchange to meet the costs of spare parts and imported materials.
C. Role, Organization and Performance
1.06      The role of the sector is basically to maintain intra-regional,
inter-regional, and international transit traffic flows. In 1984, total
tonnage transported in the country was estimated to be 2.4 billion ton-km
of which trucks handled about 35%, TRC about 30X, and TAZARA the
remainder. Of this, over one-third is international transit traffic
carried almost entirely by the railways. The traffic is generated along a
number of axes, primarily to the west and north, all of which focus on the
port of Dar-es-Salaam from Nbeya, Kigoma, Mwanza, and Arusha which cover
the principal productive areas and international routes.
1.07      Overall responsibility for the planning, development,
utilization, and maintenance of the transport infrastructure is vested in
the Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW). The MCW has 7 major
subdivisions (Chart 1) covering the various transport modes and their
administrative and planning functions. Each is headed either by a
Commissioner or Director. Public sector corporations are predominant in
transport of which TRC, Tanzania Harbors Authority (TEA), Air Tanzania
Corporation (ATC), and the National Transport Corporation (NTC) are the
major ones. The TAZARA is administered separately by Tanzania and Zambia.
The private sector is only involved in road transport and air catering.
1.08      Performance of the sector has declined over the last ten years,
particularly in its tasks of collection of agricultural products in the
producing areas. In the case of the railways, distributors of fertilizers
and crop authorities have been severely affected by the declining capacity
of the TRC. Transport costs are high but official and unofficial tariff
regulations have eroded quality of service and flexibility of supply. A
number of obstacles impede transport flows and impose serious constraints
on economic development: (i) poor transport coordination and planning (para
1.12), (ii) inefficient regulation and organization of the road transport
industry (paras 2.04 - 2.10), (iii) poor state of the road network due to



-3-
inadequate road maintenance (paras 2.26 - 2.28), and (iv) inefficient
operations of TRC. Some of the problems such as shortage of suitably
qualified and experienced manpower in technical positions and acute
shortage of foreign exchange are common to other sectors of the economy.
D. Government Objectives and Policy in the Sector
1.09      The Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) prepared by the
Government in June 1982 sets out the broad objectives and policies in the
sector. These are generally still valid and are summarized as follows: (i)
maximize use of rail and coastal and lake shipping to reduce excessive
pressures on the trucking sector; (ii) increase efficiency of use and
emphasize maintenance of existing assets; (iii) strengthen planning
capability and prepare a long term sectoral strategy; (iv) remove
unnecessary administrative restrictions especially on inter-regional
freight movements; and (v) increase tariff flexibility to ensure reasonable
profitability of transport movements.
1.10      Since 1982, some steps have been taken on a number of the key
areas.  In brief, (i) Government is presently reviewing a Road Transport
Policy paper prepared by NTC with a view to formulating an official
Government  policy in the sub-sector (para 2.08).  This policy is expected
to have the effect of improving the efficiency with which scarce foreign
exchange is allocated among truck operators and, thereby, increasing the
effective capacity of the subsector.  Government intends to follow this in
the first half of 1986 by preparation of a policy for the whole transport
sector - the first time such an exercise has been attempted in Tanzania;
(ii) planning capability in MCW has been strengthened with assistance from
the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA); (iii) policy on
tariffs in road and rail transport appears to be moving towards greater
determination by market forces; and (iv) the Three-Year (FY86-88) Transport
Sector Investment Program (para 1.15) concentrates very substantially on
rehabilitation of existing assets. Government has agreed that, not later
than January 1, 1987, it will submit to the Association for its review a
draft paper on its overall Transport Sector Policy.
1.11      The extent to which action on administrative reform is occurring
is much more difficult to judge. However, recent Government statements and
policies have indicated that the public sector, particularly parastatals,
will be expected to improve efficiency and that the importance of the role
of the private sector in the provisior. of road transport is recognized.
This has been reflected in the inclusion of motor vehicle spare parts and
trucks for the private truckers within the Government's import
liberalization scheme which is currently in operation.
E. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.12     The Government has recognized for several years the need for
better transport planning and coordination and two important steps were
taken as a result. In July 1984, the old Ministry of Transport and
Communications and the Ministry of Works were merged into a single Ministry
of Communications and Works (MCW) to bring all transport modes under the
control of one ministry. A year later, in the reorganization of the MCW



- 4 -
that followed, a separate division of planning and research was established
headed by a director charged with responsibility for overall transport
planning and coordination in the couatry. However, lack of sufficient
qualified and experienced staff has continued to limit the capacity of the
MCW to perform its transport planning function. Under a recent agreement
with the Government, DANIDA has undertaken to finance technical assistance
comprising three planning experts, to strengthen the Directorate of
Planning and Research.
1.13      The DANIDA financed technical assistance team will help the MCW
to establish systematic data collection and analysis, and supervise the
preparation of an integrated strategy for transport sector development for
each transport mode for a period of five to ten years. In order to ensure
that this objective is achieved and that data collection and processing
systems are operated on a continuing basis, the Government has agreed that,
not later than January 1, 1987 and annually thereafter, it would compile
and publish Annual Transport Statistics witi a format and contents
satisfactory to the Association.
1.14      At present, however, much of the planning effort has been devoted
to the preparation of a Three-Year Transport Sector Investment Program
(FY1986-88) (para 1.15) as input to a public sector investment review for a
possible proposed consultative group meeting. This has superseded all
previous investment plans which included many ambitious projects which had
not been subject to detailed justification. The current programs in each
transport subsector are realistic and represent high priorities in the
country.
F. Transport Investments
1.15      The proposed indicative Transport Sector Investment Program
(FY1986-88) was discussed during appraisal and revised within the framework
of the Government's overall development program in September 1985. It is
summarized below with full details in Annex I-1. The program calls for an
expenditure in current prices of about TSh. 7.2 billion (US$409 million) of
which local costs amount to TSh. 1.9 billion and foreign exchange costs,
TSh. 5.3 billion equivalent. More than half of the proposed investments
are in roads and road transport, mainly completion of ongoing construction
projects, rehabilitation works, and strengthening of road maintenance.



-5-
Transport Sector Investment Program - (FY1986-88)1/
TShs Million
Local Foreign Total Z Share
Roads and Road Transport
Highway Inv. Prog. (FY1986-88)2/        1163    2637    3800     53
Road Transport                           60      330     390      5
Subtotal                         1223    2967    4190      58
Railways
TRC                                      47    1300    1347      18
TAZARA3/                                 100     235     335      5
Subtotal                          147    1535    1682      23
Ports
THA                                     370      680    1050     15
Aviation
Airports                                 144     120     264      4
Total                         1884    5302    7186    100
j7/  Although this program has been discussed on the assumption of
execution in FY1986-88, the actual implementation may extend to
FY1990.
2/   Details of the Highway Investment Program (FY1986-88) are given
in para 2.30.
3/   Not included in the overall development program.
1.16      Comparison of the program with previous periods is difficult as
execution has depended very much upon the availability of foreign
resources and these flows have been erratic, depending largely upon the
readiness of individual projects.  The major component is highway
investment. In this subsector, three comparisons can be made with the
value of investments (i) executed during the last Five-Year Plan
FY1977-81; (ii) executed during the most recent five years; and
(iii) planned for the aborted fourth Five-Year Plan FY1982-86. On all
comparisons, after taking account of inflation, the proposed FY1986-88
program is reasonable and represents a significant reduction on the fourth
plan proposals.
1.17      The situations of other major subsectors are as follows:
(i) the THA r-ogram essentially reflects investments contained in the
Port Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1536-TA).  Although significantly in
excess of investment in recent years the program is fully justified, the
foreign exchange financing secured, and the local expenditure within
TRA's resources; and (ii) the TRC program represents a combination of
rehabilitation and ongoing investments, for which foreign exchange
financing is substantially committed, and a substantial new locomotive
purchase program. The latter, designed to provide more shunting capacity
and replacement of steam locomotives, has yet to be justified.



1.18      Details of the overall program, and technical analysis are given
in Annex I-1. Government has agreed that it will consult with the
Association prior to either making changes in the overall transport
investment program agreed with the Association, or increasing or decreasing
allocation to any individual item in the program by more than 25% or in
aggregate by more than 15% in real terms. It was further agreed that the
Government would proceed with the purchase of locomotives for TRC only
after economic feasibility had been demonstrated to the mutual satisfaction
of the Association and the Government.
G.  Experience with Past Len'ing in the Transport Sector
1.19      In all, the Bank Group has extended credits and loans to help
finance five highway projects, one trucking project, two railway
projects, and five port projects. During the earlier years of lending,
the projects concentrated on financing of construction and equipment.
The focus later shifted to strengthening of local institutions with
provisions for technical assistance and training. Bank group experience
has divided on the same lines. While experience with the executinn of
physical components has generally been satisfactory, technical assistance
and training objectives have been difficult to achieve mainly because of
fi) delays in appointment of technical assistance staff, (ii) cultural and
language adjustment problems of technical assistance staff, (iii) lack of
effective admininstrative commitment by Government, (iv) lack of suitable
local counterparts, and (v) unrealistic targets. Experience also shows
that technical assistance staff should be more carefully chosen to ensure
their suitability.
1.20      These lessons have been confirmed by the four Project
Performance Audit Reports issued so far (PPAR Nos. 791 of June 26, 1975,
4029 of July 15, 1982 and 4030 and 4031 of June 30, 1982) and the draft
Project Completion Report for Credit 507-TA that is being prepared. An
important lesson learned in the highway projects is that the cost of
undertaking civil works by force account is high and that efforts should be
made to develop the local contracting industry so that much of the road
maintenance and rehabilitation works could be let out to contractors.
Details of experience with past lending are given in Annex I-2.
H. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.21      With respect to the transport sector as a whole, the rationale
for continual Bank Group involvement is essentially to assist the
Government in building up and improving its capacity for coordinated
planning in the sector. The planning efforts are directed at improving
the statistical data base, policy formulation, and investment planning.
The objective is to ensure optimum utilization of human and financial
resources available to the sector. The transport sector itself is a
major consumer of foreign exchange resources and the Bank Group could
play an important role in assembling the external assistance needed.



-7-
1.22      At the level of the prop'sed project, the general thrust is as
described above but the immediatc. focus is on rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing facilities. The Bank Group is alone in providing
comprehensive assistance to the Government in highway maintenance.
Experience in previous projects has shown that while the Government has
potential to develop an adequate capability to execute routine maintenance
works by force account, the continuation of the practice of execution of
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works by force account would be
inefficient and expensive. The Group's involvement in the subsector, and
the proposed project in particular is designed to promote the execution of
road maintenance works by contract.



-8-
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Road Network
2.01      Of the total road network of about 82,000 km, 10,000 km are
designated trunk roads which function as the primary road system, 8,000 km
are local main roads which function as a secondary road system, and the
rest comprises about 42,000 km designaced as regional and district roads
and several thousand kms of agriculttural feeder roads and tracks. Most of
the district roads are also agricultural feeder roads. Much of the
district roads are earth tracks and only about 3,000 km of the whole road
network are bituminous paved. The paved portion of the main trunk system
consists primarily of the road from Dar-es-Salaam north to Arusha, the
TANZAM highway from Dar-es-Salaam west to the Zambian border and the
recently completed road from Morogoro to Dodoma. The TANZAM highway
provides the main road outlet to the sea for Zambian traffic and also
provides an alternate transit facility for Malawian traffic. The rest of
the road system consists of lower standard primary, secondary, and feeder
roads, many of which become impassable during the rainy season. Average
daily traffic on the roads is relatively light, under 200 vehicles per day
on most roads. The most heavily trafficked roads are the TANZAM highway
(over 800 vpd on some sections) and the Dar-es-Salaam-Arusha road (over 300
vpd).
2.02      The highway system performs two roles within the country: (i) as
the primary basis for transport where other forms of transport-rail and
lake-are not available; and (ii) a complement to the rail and lake
systems. The primary role is mainly performed between main centers other
than Dar-es-Salaam, and between the various centers on the TANZAM highway
and Dar-es-Salaam. The TANZAM highway and TAZARA parallel each other but
are in competition to only a minor degree due to: (i) the concentration by
TAZARA on the transit of international traffic with local traffic of
secondary importance and (ii) topographical conditions preventing ready
communication between the highway located on high ground, and the railway
located in low swampy terrain for most of its length. The complementary
function of road and rail is most apparent in the north where the main
roads generally terminate at lake ports or railheads. Thus, the degree of
competition between road and other surface transport is rather limited.
2.03      Enforcement of vehicle axle load regulations has not been
effective. Extensive overloading of trucks, particularly those operating
regionally, has resulted in premature deterioration of the paved roads
causing higher vehicle operating costs and heavy maintenance works. These
are specially evident on the TANZAM Highway and the Chalinze-Segera-Arusha
and Segera-Tanga roads. Government has been reviewing current axle road
legislation and enforcement measures with a view to increasing the axle
load limit from the present 8 mt. The University of Dar-es-Salaam as well
as consultants financed by the Overseas Development Administration of the
United Kingdom (ODA) have assisted the Government in this work. Their
recommendations are presently being reviewed by the Government. The
Government has agreed that, not later than December 31, 1986, it will
introduce regulations as necessary to reform existing axle load control and
adopt a plan, all satisfactory to the Association, for the enforcement of
the new regulations and will initiate the enforcement of such plan not
later than three months thereafter.



-9-
B. The Road Transport Industry
2.04      The total number of trucks licensed is over 11,000, with a total
capacity of 81,000 tons. Of the vehicles, 78% are privately owned, with
most of the remainder belonging to parastatals, including six Regional
Transport Companies (RETCOs). The distribution of capacity is similar, but
the private sector accounts for a higher proportion of total freight
movements, about 85%. The apparently lower efficiency of public trucking
is partly accounted for by low utilization of vehicles owned by the
transport wings of industrial and agricultural parastatals. In general,
large operators (including RETCOs) operating inter-regionally perform best,
with trucks achieving 40,000 km to 70,000 km per year, while crop
authorities and small owners, both of whom use vehicles as ancillary to
other activities, achieve as '-ittle as 10,000 km per truck annually.
Vehicle age, spare parts, and tire availability are also significant
determinants in truck performance.
2.05      The main feature until 1984, was a chronic shortage of
replacement vehicles and a consequently aging fleet. Fleet replacement was
about 4% p.a., obviously inadequate in African conditions when over 15%
would be optimal because of poor road conditions. Freight movement by road
appears to have declined by 2% p.a. since the mid 1970s, but as the overall
level of economic activity has stagnated, this has apparently not resulted
in persistent or widespread capacity shortage. Trucking costs are high.
At the current rate of exchange, they typically range from US 33t per
ton-km for intra-regional to US 15t per ton-km for inter-regional. Road
tariffs broadly reflect costs, when the cost components (vehicles, tires,
fuel) can be obtained at official rates of exchange but are unprofitable to
the truck operator if he is obliged to obtain most imports from the
parallel- market. This leads to ad hoc supply of imports at official
prices, with the result that Government control of the cost of providing
freight transport is achieved both through setting tariffs (by parastatal
crop authorities and regional transport coordination committees) and
influencing costs. Passenger tariffs are set in a similar fashion, but in
the regions, if not in major cities, enforcement is .elieved to be lax and
the effective rates often higher.
2.06      Responsibility for public sector transport rests with NTC, a
parastatal organization under the MCW. NTC supervises and provides
advisory, management, and technical services to its subsidiary companies
including the National Bus Services, Ltd. (KAMATA), the Tanzanian Coastal
Shipping Line (TACOSHILI), and the Shirika la Usafiri Dar-es-Salaam (UDA).
The organization of NTC (Chart No. 2) is satisfactory. The 6 RETCOs
located at Dodoma, Mtwara, Songea, Mwanza, Bukoba, and Tabora are associate
companies of NTC. NTC also advises the Government on matters relating to
the overall development of the road transport industry.
2.07      Government policy in the past has been to regulate the industry
through the supply of inputs, particularly new vehicles, and tariffs rather
than regulation of entry. The most reliable statistics on distribution of
inputs are of the number of vehicles allocated. They show that for 1984
and 1985, Government agencies and parastatals received 37% of total truck
allocation and of the 56% allocated to the regions, about half went to
parastatals, local Government and other public bodies; thus leaving
only about one third of the total to private operators. The control of
inputs reflects two concerns: (i) a desire to build up public trucking



- 10 -
capacity to prevent extraction of economic -rent- by private carriers in a
situation of excess demand; and (li) the preference of aid agencies,
responsible for a significant proportion of inputs, to deal with public
agencies. The first objective was also reflected in tariff control which
has generally been based upon inadequate information and in some cases an
unwillingness of crop authorities to set rates which afforded adequate
revenue to truckers. Th-e system has not worked well, however. The
distribution of inputs has not necessarily been to the most efficient
users, and inappropriate tariffs have led to diversion of capacity to more
lucrative activities (including passenger movement by truck).
2.08      Proposals for reform of government policy have been prepared by
the NTC and are being reviewed by the Government. These are summarized in
Annex II-1.  The three main features are: (i) inputs-vehicles
primarily-for which foreign exchange is supplied by the Government, should
be allocated on the basis of the average annual mileage achieved per
vehicle in a user's fleet to the most efficient users; (ii) this allocation
mechanism should be impartial between public and private trucking; and
(iii) tariff controls should be removed on inter-regional movements where
they would be based upon bids for transport contracts. Tariff controls
would be retained on intra-regional movements, as capacity shortages and
consequent potentially high tariffs exist in the more remote regions. The
Government appears to believe that such regional disequilibria are best
addressed by reliance on RETCOs to provide basic transport at reasonable
(i.e. cost related) prices, supplemented when necessary by private
transport induced into such regions by incentives such as fuel and tires
supplied at official prices.
2.09      Government has not yet finalized its official position and in any
case import liberalization has introduced a new element, the potential
effect of which is difficult to judge at this early stage. Should it
result in a flood of new and rehabilitated vehicles, inputs through
official channels could become relatively unimportant and as competition
drove rates down in major regions there would be more incentive for private
truckers to provide more adequate services in remote regions. This, of
course, would reduce the already weak rationale for intra-regional tariff
setting.
2.10      The Association has advised the Government that it considers that
prices of  official inputs  should more closely reflect parallel market
prices by making such inputs subject to duties and taxes. The mechanism
for the allocation of foreign exchange for these inputs could remain as
exists now. Secondly, the Association expressed the view that inter-
regional tariff policy should be determined by market forces; and, in the
case of intra-regional traffic, at least be more adequately cost based.
Public bidding slhould be employed for major contracts as the normal basis,
with explicitly defined provision for modification when exceptional
conditions prevail as for minor consignments and very bad road conditions,
rather than by resolution in committee. The Government agreed that (i)
inputs financed by the project would be allocated in accordance with
specific criteria related to immediate trucking needs (para 3.26); (ii)
that inputs supplied through official channels sha'll be allocated to the
most efficient users based upon criteria satisfactory to the Association
and would be subject to both import duty (currently 20% on trucks) and
sales tax (currently 25%); (iii) that tariffs for inter-regional movements



- 11 -
would be based upon competitive bids whenever feasible; and (iv) tariffs
for intra-regional movements would be based upon the cost of providing the
transport service. In regard to item (ii) above, the Government will
prepare workable criteria satisfactory to the Association by September 30,
1986. In the event such criteria cannot be prepared by the above date, the
Government has agreed it will distribute official inputs to the trucking
sector in line with the distribution of the ownership, namely, private
cooperatives, RETCOs, and other parastatals on the basis of most recently
available data from the Central Transport Licensing Authority.
Road User Charges
2.11      Road user charges are detailed in Annex 11-2.   In summary, road
user charges yield about T Sh 1,200 million per annum, mainly from fuel
taxes. This is more than three times the total estimated expenditure on
highway maintenance and comfortably in excess of total annual expenditures
including rehabilitation and construction incurred in recent years. The
incidence of taxes is greatest upon gasoline driven passenger vehicles, but
revenue from trucks is sufficient tc cover attributable costs (para 2.29).
Fuel Prices and Energy Conservation
2.12      Petroleum prices were extensively reviewed in the UNDP/World Bank
Report 4969-TA Tanzania Issues and Options in the Energy Sector-, November
1984. The basic conclusion was that the prices of all the main petroleum
products including diesel were at least equal to economic opportunity cost
and in the case of gasoline, substantially higher as measured by border
prices employing a shadow exchange rate about 50% above the official rate
then prevailing. The relative incentive given to employing diesel powered
vehicles, which are generally more fuel efficient than gasoline, is
acceptable to the Association in view of the critical role fuel costs play
in the Tanzanian balance of payments.
2.13      The project will contribute most materially to energy
conservation by enabling vehicles to operate closer to their most energy
efficient speed. This benefit is a component of the reduction in vehicle
operating costs which will result from the project.
C. Organization of the Highway Subsector
2.14      Highway administration in Tanzania is divided between the MCW and
the 20 Regional Governments. However, while the MCW is directly
responsible for the construction and maintenance of the country's trunk
road network, it also provides technical assistance to the Regional
Governments. The regional engineer is usually an employee of the MCW. The
Regional Governments are responsible for the local main, regional and
district roads, and are generally required to maintain the feeder road
systems within the regions although resources are rarely earmarked for this
purpose. The construction of the feeder roads is mostly initiated by the
agricultural parastatals such as the cotton, tea, and coffee authorities
and the pyrethrum board, and executed by MCW or the Regional Governments.
Although funds are allocated to maintain the newly constructed feeder
roads, they are largely wasted because of inadequately trained manpower and
poor management. The demand for expansion of agricultural feeder road
systems means that the ranking of investment priorities has to be carefully
made and institutional arrangements have to be established particularly to



- 12 -
protect these investments. The project would include provisions for an
Agricultural Feeder Roads Study to study institutional and funding
arrangements for the construction and maintenance of feeder roads and
prepare a program of investments based on the highest priorities (para
3.29).
2.15      The regions are divided into 4-5 districts each and, in common,
are short of qualified engineers and adequately trained technicians and
road field personnel. Almost all the district engineers posts are occupied
by staff recruited from among road inspectors and foremen who do not have a
sound general education and have been poorly trained and who have developed
unsatisfactory methods of executing road rehabilitation and maintenance
works. As a result, the regional and district institutions do not have the
capacity to maintain the large kilometrage of regional, district, and
feeder roads even if funds were allocated for this purpose. The cost of
technical assistance to strengthen their capacity could be prohibitive.
2.16      The first step in the process of achieving the goal of
satisfactory regional and district road administrations would be to train
adequate manpower at the level of engineers, technicians, and road field
personnel such as inspectors, foremen, and skilled labor. The project
attempts to fill this need by providing assistance to (i) train engineers
at universities abroad, (ii) institute a course for highway technicians at
Dar-es-Salaam Technical College, and (iii) continue the program of training
at the Morogoro Training School established under the Fifth Highway Project
for road field per-onnel. The Government has agreed that priority in the
allocation of trained manpower under the project will be given to the
Regional Governments (including the Districts).
D. Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW)
Organization and Staffing
2.17      In July 1984, the former Ministry of Communications and Transport
and the Ministry of Works was combined to form a single MCW. The present
organizational structure (Chart No. 1) reflects the integration of the two
ministries. The Planning and Research directorate of the MCW is concerned
with overall transport planning and coordination including roads. Two
separate divisions under a Commissioner of Construction and Maintenance are
responsible for the execution of road construction and maintenance works.
The Mechanical and Electrical directorate is responsible for the service
and repair of the Government's equipment and vechile fleets including those
used in force account works by the road construction and maintenance
divisions. The MCW organization is satisfactory but because of the size
and extensive responsibilities of the ministry much will depend on the
extent to which authority is delegated to senior staff and the degree to
which the parastatals under the ministry operate as autonomous agencies.
2.18      The planaing and research directorate and the roads construction
and maintenance divisions have 72 staff positions for engineers, 3 for
economists, 3 for planning officers, 221 for technicians, and 608 for
assistants and auxiliaries. The mechanical and electrical directorate,
which services the two roads divisions in addition to other government



- 13 -
agencies, has 65 staff positions for engineers, 514 for technicians, and
1074 for assistants and auxiliaries. Most of the senior engineering
positions and many of the technicians positions are vacant because of lack
of experienced staff. The recently graduated engineers from Indian
universities have been appointed for these senior positions which have been
budgeted for. Although their training in India is satisfactory, they are
relatively inexperienced and much will depend on the efficiency with which
MCW uses technical assistance staff provided under the project to assist
and train new staff (paras 3.14 - 3.16).
2.19      The mechanical and electrical engineering directorate of the MCW
carries out its functions through a Central Workshop at Morogoro and five
Zonal Workshops. Servicing facilities are also located in each TRN
Resident Engineer's office. The major manufacturers of equipment and
vehicles operating in the country have local garages but over the years the
use of their facilities by the Government has declined. The results have
been poor in that many items of equipment (including vehicles) have been
badly repaired and have become scrap or need rehabilitation. The project
aims to (i) expedite the disposal of scrap equipment, (ii) undertake
equipment rehabilitation largely by contract, and (iii) assist in improving
the preventive maintenance capability in the Zonal Workshops (para 3.14 and
3.t5).
Technical Education and Training
2.20      Several institutions exist in Tanzania for the education and
training of artisans, technicians, and engineers. Technical-bias secondary
schools and vocational training centers, under the Ministry of Education
(HOE), are the main centers of training for artisans. The technical
colleges, also under the MOE (Chart 3), provide instruction for
technicians. The Dar-es-Salaam Technical College also runs advanced
diploma courses for technicians who demonstrate the academic skills and
interest to qualify as engineers. Together with the University of
Dar-es-Salaam, these institutions form a logical structure of national
engineering and technical education in the country.
2.21      Most of the institutions were established in the late sixties and
early seventies and, except in the case of the University, the quality of
teaching and education has declined because of the lack of suitable
qualified school leavers and because of lack of proficient instructors.
This is most evident among the graduates of the Dar-es-Salaam Technical
College, and the project addresses two main problems: (i) improving the
quality of teaching; and (ii) expanding the courses to include a highway
engineering specialization. The ongoing Association financed Seventh
Education Project is addressing the issue of improving the quality of
secondary school education. A follow-up project (the Proposed Eigth
Education Project) was appraised in mid-1982 with a view to expanding
secondary school enrollment but processing was stopped because of slow
progress and implementation problems with the ongoing project. These have
been largely resolved and the Association is considering financing the next
project.
2.22      The University of Dar-es-Salaam has the facilities and teaching
staff to produce approximately 60 civil engineers each year. This is not



- 14 -
adequate to meet the country's demand for professional engineers in the
short term and there is a need to supplement the output at the local
university. The project, therefore, provides for fellowships abroad for
training of engineers (para 3.18). A similar program for the training of
about 110 engineers was completed successfully under the Fifth Highway
Project.
2.23      In addition to these national educational institutions, the MCW
runs its own school for training of inspectors and foremen in specialized
road maintenance and equipment repair and maintenance activities. The MCW
training school is being assisted under the Fifth Highway Project to
improve the quality of instruction at the school and new training programs
have been designed in consultation with the Association. The project will
provide for continued assistance to the training school which is located in
Morogoro (para 3.21).
Engineering and Construction
2.24      MCW has a small design section which undertakes detailed
engineering of minor roads and bridges. Feasibility studies and detailed
engineering of major projects, which are almost all financed by grants,
credits, and low interest loans from bilateral and multilateral aid and
lending agencies, are carried out by foreign consultants. There are at
least three large local consulting firms engaged principally in building
design and supervision and urban housing and water supply. The three firms
have potential to expand into highway engineering and the MCW has indicated
its willingness to consider these firms for inclusion in the shortlists for
consultants under the project. The firms are likely to take advantage of
this opportunity by entering into joint ventures with qualified foreign
firms. Highway design standards have been established for the various road
categories and are based on American practice. Bridges are designed for
either British or American loading. These standards are satisfactory.
2.25      Less than 4% of road construction is carried out by local
contractors and force account. The majority of new works, particularly the
large projects, are executed by foreign contractors. Because of scarcity
of foreign exchange, the trend has been to execute locally financed
projects by force account. Force account works have generally been of poor
quality and have been carried out at a high cost. Over the years, the
local contracting industry has concentrated mostly on building works, and
the MCI has tended to expand its own forces in part, with the assistance of
the Association under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects which aimed at
strengthening the execution of trunk road maintenance by force account
(paras 2.27 and 2.28). Very limited success has been achieved in improving
force account operations. The proposed project will aim at giving direct
assistance to the local contractors with a view to encouraging the MCW to
let out more work to local contractors which will reduce the present
dependence on foreign contractors and eliminate construction works by force
account (paras 3.23 and 3.24).
Maintenance
2.26      The MCW has divided the country into 20 regions for trunk road
maintenance. Each region is under the charge of a Resident Engineer who is
responsible for all trunk roads in the region. Under the Fourth and Fifth



- 15 -
Highway Projects, a country-wide trunk road maintenance organization has
been established, and funding for road maintenance has been quadrupled
within the last few years. Because of lack of qualified and experienced
staff and shortage of foreign exchange, road maintenance continues to
suffer and the road network has deteriorated in many places where
maintenance is possible only at high cost. The project will therefore,
commence a road rehabilitation program which over the next decade will
restore the country's trunk road network into a maintainable condition
while the MCW continues to improve its routine maintenance capability with
its own funds and technical assistance and training financed under the
project.
2.27      Under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects, the Association
assisted the MCW to establish a Trunk Road Maintenance (TRM} organization
in each region. The TRMs are headed by Resident Engineers who execute
virtually all road maintenance works including rehabilitation works by
force account. The quality of the works has been unsatisfactory due mainly
to weak management, poor equipment maintenance, lack of properly trained
staff, and uncertainties in the availability of essential supplies such as
fuel and bitumen.
2.28      Experience in the two projects shows that force account
operations can be improved, if at all, only at very high cost and that a
policy of letting out the periodic maintenance (resealing, regravelling)
and rehabilitation works on contract should be encouraged. This will allow
the TRM organizations to concentrate on execution by force account of
routine maintenance activities (grass cutting, repairing of potholes,
cleaning drains and culverts, etc.) for which a reasonable capability can
be achieved. The project therefore, has made provisions for (i) assistance
to develop the local contracting industry; (ii) rehabilitation by contract
of adequate number of equipment and vehicles to service the TRM routine
maintenance operations; and (iii) technical assistance and training to
improve the quality of routine maintenance.
Financing of Highway Maintenance
2.29      Highway maintenance (and construction) expenditure is provided
through central government budgetary allocation. There is no direct
linkage between revenue and expenditure. However, revenue from road user
charges in Tanzania comfortably covers the current level of highway
maintenance expenditure. Tanzanian highway maintenance expenditure has
fluctuated with a rising trend in current prices in recent years, but
between FY1980 and FY1985 (estimated) has declined as a percentage of total
government recurrent expenditure from 1.20% to 1.00%.  However, the main
constraints on effective highway maintenance in Tanzania have been: (i) a
lack of clear determination in MCW of what are the highest priority areas
to which it should devote its limited managerial and engineering capacity;
and (ii) the acute shortage of foreign exchange to provide adequate flow of
materials and fuel to support maintenance activities. Thus an increase in
local resources would not of itself have significantly improved
maintenance. Taking these constraints into consideration, the coverage of
maintenance expenditure by road user charges (3.8 times) is fully adequate,
and as the main road user charges are fuel taxes, it is likely to remain so
even when the optimum level of highway expenditure increases.



- 16 -
E. Highway Investment Program (FY1986-88)
2.30      The FY1986-88 Highway Investment Program consists of:
(i) completion of ongoing investment, which covers a mixture o' new
construction and upgrading of existing highways; (ii) rehabilitation of
the TANZAM highway and main gravel roads to be financed under the
proposed project; and (iii) additional rehabilitation activity expected
to result from studies to be undertaken under the proposed project.
Details by activity are given below, with full details including actual
and prospective financing sources in Annex I-1.
Highway Investment Program (FY1986-1988
Activity                        Local     Foreign      Total
-- - TSh million1/ --
Construction (New Roads)21       186         309        495
Construction (Upgrading)         424         1101      1425
Rehabilitation: Paved Roads3/   245          510        755
Paved RoadsW/   160          340       500
Gravel Roads5/   82          122       204
Maintenance (TRM)                 16          150       166
Others (studies etc)              50         105        155
TOTAL           1163         2637      3800
I/   Current prices
2/   Includes approximately TSh 50 million maintenance of the
Songea-Makambako road
3/51 Under the proposed project.
4/   Dependent upon studies under proposed project.
2.31      The main features of the program are: (i) Construction (New
Roads). The Songea-Makambako road (295 km) is being constructed with ODA
(UK) financing of foreign costs. The construction is virtually complete
but ODA/GOT have provided within the overall financing for a three-year
road specific maintenance program. The project justification is based
upon opening up new agricultural area in south western Tanzania;
(ii) Construction (Upgrading); This consists of a number of roads in
different parts of the country which are being upgraded to paved
standard. In all cases, financing has been wholly or substantially
obtained; (iii) Rehabilitation.  TANZAM and gravel roads rehabilitation,
and provision for the Chalinze-Segera-Tanga and contiguous
Segera-Mukumbara rehabilitation comprise this component; (iv)
Maintenance. This component covers provision under TRM during the
period; and (v) Others. This includes studies under the proposed project
and strengthening and improvement to a number of bridges, all of which
appears justified.
2.32      The ongoing new road and reconstruction components comprise
work for which financing of foreign exchange costs, the most important
determinant of speed of execution, has been substantially secured.
Although the economic justification for some elements is not entirely
clear, there is no apparent need for major reorientation of already
committed resources. The prospective rehabilitation program, which
comprises all the new work to be commenced during the period, is
separately analyzed (Annex I-1).



- 17 -
F. Local Contracting Industry
2.33      An assessment of the industry was undertaken recently by an
Association financed consultant and it shows that there are at least 21
local contractors who are either capable or have potential to undertake
low standard road construction. Most of them would need managerial and
technical assistance besides access to foreign exchange to purchase
equipment and vehicles. At least 10 of these firms have basic plant and
equipment, but except for three firms including the Mwauanchi Engineering
and Construction Company (a parastatal), plant and equipment are over 10
years old.
2.34      In 1976, the Swedish International Development Agency, at the
request of the Government, financed a study of the construction industry
in order to identify the problems and constraints facing the development
of the industry. A major recommendation of the study was the
establishment of a National Construction Council (NCC) to develop both
the private and public sectors of the industry. In 1982, the MCI
published a policy paper on -The Role of the Contractor in National
Development-, which reiterated Government's commitment to develop the
local construction industry and help it to perform efficiently.
2.35      The NCC has been organized (Chart 4) to execute its principal
functions, namely, to (i) maintain a register of contractors, (ii) train
local contractors, (iii) provide arbitration facilities, and (iv) promote
the documentation and dissemination of information on local construction
industry. The organization is satisfactory but it does not have the
staff to undertake training and provide technical assistance to local
contractors. Provisions have, therefore, been made in the project to
assist the NCC in these respects (paras 3.23 and 3.24).



- 18 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      The project supports the Government's overall transport
objectives which can be summarized as rehabilitating the existing highway
network to reduce road transport costs, and providing support to the
trucking industry to ensure an adequate supply of capacity to meet existing
and future demands for the movement of agricultural production and
associated input supplies. To this end, the project would address key
policy issues and finance the road and road transport components of the
Government's Transport Sector Investment Program (FY1986-88) in
coordination with other aid organizations.
3.02      T1'- main project objective is to rehabilitate deteriorated
sections totalling about 295 kms of the TANZAM Highway and high priority
sections of the country's gravel road network serving the very productive
agricultural areas. The project will restore a portion of the principal
arteries of the country to a maintenable condition. It will cut the costs
which would otherwise have to be incurred annually in heavy maintenance
works to keep the roads in a passable condition.
3.03      The project also aims at encouraging the Government to let
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works be executed by contract by
providing direct assistance to the local contracting industry. Thus, a
significant institutional reform is expected to be achieved through an
agreement with the Government for all the rehabilitation works under the
project to be carried out by contractors. As a result, the MCW will be
able to concentrate its own forces on routine maintenance activities which
have been neglected in the past because of the demands of periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation works. Other institutional objectives are
to take suitable measures to expand training, strengthen road maintenance,
equipment and vehicle maintenance and improve planning.
3.04      The project will emphasize the  user- aspect by continuing
support to the trucking industry with the focus firmly oriented towards
providing maintenance support of the most productive vehicles regardless of
whether they are owned by private owners or public agencies. The project
will assist in the clarification of road transport policies to ensure
better mobilization and utilization of resources.
B. Description
3.05      In order to fulfill the above objectives, financial assistance
will be provided in the project to execute the following:
i)   the implementation of a road rehabilitation program consisting of
the rehabilitation of about 295 km of the TANZAM Highway and
700-1000 kms of gravel rods;
ii) the implementation of an equipment rehabilitation program;
iii) technical assistance to the MCW;



- 19 -
iv) training of engineers, planning officers and other professionals,
highway technicians, and road field personnel;
v)   assistance to the local contracting industry;
vi) assistance to the trucking industry; and
vii) consulting services to carry out an agricultural feeder roads
study and feasibility studies and detailed engineering of the
Chalinze-Segera-Mukumbara (270 km), Tanga-Segera (73 km), and
Arusha-Moshi (80 km) roads.
ti) Road Rehabilitation Program
3.06      Except for recently constructed roads, much of the country's road
network has deteriorated through neglect of maintenance. The previous two
Association-financed projects have assisted the Government in establishing
a countrywide road maintenance organization and committed the Government to
giving priority to road maintenance as a high -priority. However, road
deterioration had already taken place on an extensive scale and continued
during the difficult period when the Government was attempting to Improve
the organization, management, and execution of road maintenace works. The
resources and management of road maintenance have been strained by the need
for restoring the road network to a maintenable condition before normal
maintenance can be instituted.
3.07     The project, therefore, provides for the rehabilitation of high
priority road sections of the country's road network under a program which
will extend over several years. The project will rehabilitate seven
sections totalling about 278 km of the TANZAM highway and about 700-1000
kms of gravel road sections to commence the rehabilitation process. The
program is set out in detail in Annex III-1.
(a) Rehabilitation of TANZAM Highway
3.08      The TANZAM Highway extends from Dar-es-Salaam to Tunduma on the
border with Zambia, a total length of about 920 kms. The highway, which is
paved throughout, was constructed in the early seventies with financing
from USAID and the World Bank Group. Some stretches of the highway have
already failed and other stretches show strong signs of failure and need
strengthening. The road is the most heavily trafficked trunk road in the
country with current traffic ranging from about 300 vpd to 800 vpd.
3.09      Consultants financed by the Association under the Fifth Highway
Project completed economic and engineering studies in 1983 including
detailed engineering and design of a program of strengthening and
rehabilitation works according to economic priority, which forms the basis
for this project component. Road sections totalling 295 kms have been
identified as needing immediate rehabilitation. The project also provides
for consulting services to supervise the rehabilitation works.
(b) Rehabilitation of Gravel Roads
3.10      The gravel roads in the country have been the worst affectec! by
inadequate road maintenance. Many of these roads have lost their gravel



- 20 -
surfacing and some failures have occurred around culverts and in low lying
areas. These require major rehabilitation works. The roads provide access
to the markets and ports from the agricultural areas.
3.11      Consultants commenced economic and engineering studies in June
1985 to prepare a road rehabilitation and gravelling program for
implementation under the project. The studies were completed
satisfactorily in December 1985. These studies were also financed by the
Association under the Fifth Highway Project. The list of roads to be
rehabilitated in the project is based on the final report issued by the
consultants in January 1986. The consultants recommended the
rehabilitation of about 800 kms of gravel roads over a three-year period.
This is a slice of a longer term program extending over a 10-year period
covering about 3500 km. Details of the program with descriptions of road
sections are given in Annex TII-1.
3.12      The civil works involved will be mainly the rehabilitation of
drains and culverts, restoration of the road formation, and fresh
gravelling. Only minor realignments will be made where this is
economical. Supervision of the rehabilitation works would be carried out
by consultants for which provision has been made under the project. The
list of roads to be rehabilitated would be reviewed annually by the
Association and Government. The Government has agreed that by December 31
each year beginning in 1986, it will furnish to the Association for its
approval (i) the annual program of road rehabilitation giving details of
road sections, lengths, traffic data, standards, and cost estimates for the
following fiscal year; and (ii) review of the institutional arrangements
and funding of maintenance of the rehabilitated roads to ensure that they
are adequate.
(ii) Equipment Rehabilitation Program
3.13      Under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects, the Association
financed the procurement of 294 items of equipment, and 371 vehicles. Many
of these (60 items of equipment and 106 vehicles) have already broken down
and been grounded due to lack of spare parts and components. Because of
poor servicing and repairs and lack of fuel, many of these items, although
old, have not been operated for more than a few hundred hours. They have
several years of economic life left and would be rehabilitated under the
project in lieu of procurement of new equipment and vehicles. A list of
equipment and vehicles to be rehabilitated is shown in Annex III-2.
3.14      Technical assistance would be financed under the project to
supervise the implementation of the equipment rehabilitation program which
would be executed primarily by contract.. Unserviceable equipment and
vehicles scattered around the country will be brought into the six MCW
zonal workshops. The technical assistance will comprise one mechanic for
each zonal workshop and a team leader for two years to assist in examining
each item of equipment and vehicle, drafting bid documents suitable for
local competitive bidding, and assisting the Government in bid evaluation
and supervision of the contracts thereafter. The consultants will also
help the Government to reorganize its zonal workshops to carry out



- 21 -
preventive maintenance and to have a limited capacity to undertake major
repair works where contracting is not feasible. A total of 168 man months
of consulting services is involved. Their outline terms of reference are
given in Annex III-3.
3.15      The implementation of the reorganization of the five zonal
workshops will depend, inter alia, on the speed with which the Government
clears the shop floors and yards of scrap equipment and vehicles. The
Government has agreed that, not later than December 31, 1986, it will
dispose of all scrap parts andcomponents, unusable equipment and vehicles,
and thereafter, take measures regularly to dispose of equipment and
vehicles which have reached the end of their economic life.
(iii) Technical Assistance to the MCW
3.16      The project will provide technical assistance to help the MCW to
manage four areas of concern - project coordination, training, road
maintenance, and equipment service. The technical assistance will consist
of four advisors:
a)   Project Coordination - An advisor for 24 man months to assist the
local Project Coordinator to provide the project with overall
coordination and monitoring services and assist the various
executing agencies to prepare bid documents, detailed work
programs, and monitoring and reporting systems, and supervise and
manage the project accounts and credit disbursements.
b)   Training - An advisor for 24 man months to assist the Chief
Training Officer of the MCW, particularly to (i) make continual
assessments of short-term and long-term training needs, (ii)
institute annual training programs for all levels of staff, and
(iii) monitor the execution of training programs and evaluate
feedback and improvement of staff performance.
c)   Road Maintenance - An advisor for 36 man months to continue the
work uader the Fifth Highway Project to assist the Chief Road
Maintenance Engineer in improving the efficiency of MCW road
maintenance organization, management, and quality of road
maintenance works.
d)   Equipment Management  - An advisor for 36 man months to assist
the Equipment Management Engineer in (i) the deployment and
management of the use of equipment and vehicles, (ii) monitoring
of their availability and utilization, and (iii) ensuring the
adequate servicing and reparing of equipment and vehicles, and
the keeping of proper records.
Their outline terms of reference are given in Annex III-4. The Government
has appointed a suitably qualified local Project Coordinator under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. He participated in project
negotiations. The Government would also undertake to provide suitably
qualified counterparts to the training, road maintenance and equipment
advisors financed under the project.



- 22 -
(iv) Training
3.17      The project will provide for the following types of training:
a)   fellowships for undergraduate training and graduate training
abroad;
b)   training of highway technicians at the Dar-es-Salaam Technical
College; and
c)  training of existing field supervisory personnel at the Morogoro
Training School.
In addition, annual in-service training programs will be prepared by MCW
with the assistance of the Training Advisor for professional staff at all
levels. The programs will include short formal instruction, seminars,
field visits, training exercises, etc.
(a) Fellowships
3.18      The project will finance fellowships at foreign universities for
70 school leavers to study engineering, 5 economics graduates to specialize
in transport planning and economics, and other professionals such as
accountants for specialized training overseas. Altogether, about 90
Tanzanians are expected to be covered by these fellowships. Because of the
low cost and good experience with universities in India, it is expected
that the engineering students will be distributed among the several
universities which had provided similar training under the Fifth Highway
Project. The undergraduate courses normally extend over 4 years. and
graduate courses one year. Government will return the students to Tanzania
annually during the long vacation period for assignment to the MCW for
practical training.
(b) Highway Technicians Course at the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College
3.19      The project will provide assistance to the Dar-es-Salaam
Technical College to institute a three-year Highway Technicians Diploma
Course for 25 school leavers. Assistance will comprise provisions for 9
instructors for three years (324 man-months), staff and student housing, 9
one-year fellowships for counterparts for training abroad, and training
aids, equipment, and student transport. Details of the assistance to the
technical college is given in Annex III-5.
3.20      The course will be established by adding a fourth class of 25
students to the current three-year civil engineering diploma course. The
first two years will be common to both courses. In the third year, 25
students will specialize in highway engineering.   The course content and
syllabi of subjects taught in the existing civil engineering course need
improvement and the Government has agreed that (i) it will review the
existing course in detail and submit new proposals for review by the
Association not later than December 31, 1986, and (ii) it will appoint a
qualified counterpart to each of the 9 instructors financed under the
project not later than July 1, 1987.



- 23 -
(c) Morogoro Training School
3.21      Under the Fifth Highway Project, the Association is financing
consultants to assist in the conduct of short courses for training and
retraining of field supervisory personnel at the MCW Morogoro Training
School. The consultant team consists of a team leader, a roads instructor,
a mechanical instructor, and an electrical instructor. The Government has
provided counterparts but two of them are expected to be replaced by new
staff in the near future. The conduct of the courses has been extremely
successful and 270 inspectors and 360 foremen (road, mechanical, and
electrical) are expected to graduate by the end of the current program in
September 1986. The courses include training in management.
3.22      The school will continue these courses for the next several years
to meet the demand not only from MCW but also from the regional and
district governments responsible for the regional, district, and feeder
road systems. The project, therefore, provides for the continuation of the
consultants contract for a further period of two years (96 man-months) from
October 1986. Under the contract, four counterparts will continue to be
trained and an additional 270 inspectors and 360 foremen are-expected to be
trained and retrained. Details of the training program are given in Annex
III-6.
Cv) Assistance to the Local Contracting Industry
3.23      The project will help the Government to take its first step to
carry out eventually all periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works by
local contractors. In the past, local contractors have received little
encouragement to participate in roadworks mainly because of their
difficulties in obtaining access to foreign exchange to pay for equipment.
As a result, few contracts were executed by local contractors who have,
therefore, limited experience in roadworks. The project will tackle two
basic needs of the local contractors. First, the project will provide for
training in a number of areas: cost estimating, preparation of bids, site
management, methods of execution of roadworks, contractual obligations,
etc. Second, the project will provide a training ground for local
contractors by giving them an opportunity to bid for contracts for
rehabilitation of the gravel roads. Foreign exchange costs will be met out
of the Credit proceeds. Successful bidders under this program will also be
provided with experts financed under the project to assist them in
successful execution of their contracts. The training courses and
technical assistance will also be available to any contractor in the
country.
3.24      Altogether, 176 man months of expatriate technical assistance and
training experts would be financed under the project consisting of long
term and short term experts. A summary of the composition of the local
contracting industry and details of the training program and technical
assistance are given in Annex III-7. The Government has agreed that the
NCC will charge the contractors fees for admission to the training courses
and technical assistance services at levels to be agreed with the
Association.



- 24 -
(vi) Assistance to the Trucking Industry
3.25      Five public regional trucking companies were established under
the Trucking Industry Improvement and Rehabilitation Project (Credit
743-TA) which was closed In June 1985. That project financed technical
assistance to the public trucking companies in management, accounts, and
vehicle maintenance and repairs. Technical assistance under that Project
became effective only during the last two years of the Project with the
availability of suitably qualified counterparts. The counterparts need
further exposure to technical assistance which will be continued under the
Project on a selective basis for a total of 264 man months.
3.26      The project also provides for the procurement of spare parts,
tires, and batteries. NTC would advertise in the local papers for
applications from truck operators for allocation of the spare parts etc.
Allocations will be made only in respect of (i) operational vehicles
engaged principally in agriculture-related movements, (ii) the actual
vehicle size to be determined by NTC in agreement with the Association
following a review of the trucking fleet, and (iii) vehicles not more than
four years old. At least, 65Z of the assistance would be earmarked for the
private sector operators including primary cooperatives but excluding the
cooperative unions. NTC would review the applications by reference to
vehicle registration data and physical inspection to ensure that the repair
and maintenance of each vehicle is justified. The procedures would be
impartial as between publicly owned and privately owned vehicles. The
distribution between different types of spare parts wiould be determined by
sample surveys combined with an analysis based on manufacturers'
recommendations for parts requirements. The Government has agreed that
allocation of goods will be impartial as between public and private sectors
and based upon criteria satisfactory to the Association.
3.27      NTC will act as executing agency for this component and will sell
spare parts, etc. procured under the project to successful applicants at
prices which are consistent with prices of official imports. The funds
thus generated in local currency would be credited to Government revenue.
Details of assistance to the trucking industry are given in Annex III-8.
(vii) Other Consulting Services
(a) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering (86 man-months)
3.28      The project includes the financing of feasibility studies and
detailed engineering of the Chalinze-Segera-Mukumbara (270 km),
Tanga-Segera (73 km), and Arusha-Moshi (80 km) roads.  These paved road
sections were constructed in the mid sixties and are now in a deteriorated
condition and will require rehabilitation. The roads link the Kilimanjaro
and Moshi regions to the ports of Tanga and Dar-es-Salaam, and next to the
TANZAM Highway are the most heavily trafficked in the country. Outline
terms of reference are given in Annex III-9.
(b)  Agricultural Feeder Roads Study (28 man-months)
3.29      Transport in the rural areas has been difficult because of poorly
constructed and maintained feeder roads. The project includes provisions



- 25 -
for a study to (i) determine the extent to which transport delays have
occurred and additional production costs of key agricultural crops incurred
due to the absence of satisfactory road access, (ii) prepare an investment
program to develop the highest priority feeder roads, and (iii) recommend
institutional arrangements for the planning, funding, construction, and
maintenance of feeder road systems. Outline Terms of Reference are given
in Annex III-10.
C. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs
3.30      The estimated total cost of the project including contingencies
and taxes and duties is US$107.7 million equivalent. Taxes and duties
amount to about US$7.6 million equivalent or about 7%. The foreign
exchange component is about US$78.3 million or 73% of total cost. The
project cost estimates are shown in the table below:



- 26 -
MM    -n mm                                                                     mm             M     c      INIE 1  E &          ldvl
A. m
1. __ad  a -F                             o d  1W_
OB) O162                                                                4 m.  'aj   m.um      i&.ai    3.91       43.M1      67
CO                                                             k4        3.3       42 =         n       Z332       2,31      40
L   _n-%   _AdlmimP                sw  _S;Jn:'
Ca) @uvi _d                                                  I.3    3.D 13    2n.40          km       3.80       14.40      60
Co) a1df sm                                                     1.6      1.774    a             go        gm       1         ID0 
5*31                                        -.r113    mm    I..M                             a2       4a1i6       G.V        6i
L 63=
I. 31     m  ad -                                                   -          J41.0   41.0        -       2,37       2.30   DO
3. ~m .~
1 lb. sminI_1x_CA                                                 312     W3         .MD         19       16        3        OD
to'. "bdadds C                                                           n  g 11.u9               o       73        -am      so
2dea_d                                                          3.729     3.3       9.M         3w      3.8       4.23       52
1. 1 lb. P _in2 ad       Mumo (Y2                                     35    X3         3.51         21       19        as       g
lVA. TadX M aio C2A)                                              312    2,73       3.03         19       in        19       0
I Fb. Hdb      Mu IW   C2_                                        40    4.1 3       4.37         31      25         35       40
1 lb.    l   Sm  4dm (3Y                                         440    4.151       4.3          a 3     5                   0 O
2. hfc    e                                                          -       Z42       2,462        -        in          3  D
3. Om=f m    i- & sa0s                                                                  XD -                 13         I      11
ldml                                                            1.77    18.37     3D.42         97     1.149     1.216      92
1. 5* /d of d     SD0 wiN . 11nr4 Offin 6 aVdw                2     -     31.79      37.75         -      2xm00      2.xm     1O
2. Adam        V 1m lWd_   1q_
(ml 9 lb Tmm  (31 ml                                            2.M    23.312      SAN          13      1.42      1.1W       40
(b)   _1l -        t                                            56M     5.35       1067         325                  M      g
k 9 lb1d2hddw                                                    -      2.216   f .216          -    U 35           IS    ID
Cd) JdmgAld.                                                            7U. ad  2 t  M    W.719  11.277  31  653    go      9f
3.    bvatm  ofTvaafa *MM= ladan SdmI (96 ad                       on1   B.          9-=          SD       30        TD       90
%AYl                                                            9.3J   9.7                      my.3    5.335     5,91       w0
1-  '1u                                                            3.31    7713       14.916       195      470        65S      70
2. ?     sm1    _b    (176 _)                                      2.9    IS.M         8           la mZ      A       1.116    81
5.a                                                             6.I6  23,3         39.73       3D7      1.43L     1.11       7
F. AU1DO  0 
1. Tadlual PAdou  (1X6 N)                                          2,183   19.669     28z          133    1.197      1.37       so
2. lbm  ran. To.  _   ad                                           1-       Z                       -       .-M   Q %=        D1
tA~l                                                            2.U1 31.711       ID07          33 IJ  6.197      6.30      98
C. O         U35      10
L  5*IMtIIy s        _d i  d13     _         tim O       g c_c
1--     270 im).  _    _   (73    _       _ ad      IM i)       1       14.17      15.693        96       W         956     9D
L  alm.m   1         a   Sn3t                                          2    7.D3       S.D9          D .D              MOD      O0
qaml                                                            2.30    21.50      23.911       146    1.310      1.46      90
gm ctc  Qi  195)                                              375,4  1.03.13   1,31.646      22.01    61.477     16.353     73
IL _
L  Fq.imL Cvl cm A(l)(A)    3(1) ad 7(2) ad 1M  od_j             26.701 72.193 90.9     0       1.627     4.313      6.5       73
2.   m                                                            7.7      3 1%.16    D,D        *.159       4       17.J29     7Z
subm1od                                                       105IOMM    M         mo         6.465    16.90     zm         73
MM       = aS                                                 Al.l  1.35.        1.767.47    3.381    15.314    307.675     73
Wm3.   5        on (F8    l                                   3S7.W 1.M529   1.663.376       21.80    71.314    I.14        761
V  1d        -    c   f__    TAY do  _ad4c. A. ad_M_.
PWpSA     o  ftime by de Smdadin aft.
tang  UfW O t Om     tv -.n



- 27 -
3.31      The base costs have been estlated at March 1986 prices and uses
the current official exchange rate of US$ 1.00 - TSbs. 16.415. Costs
include a physical contingency of 10S on most itess. Rates of inflation of
foreign costs have been applied to both foreign and local. costs in the
calculation of price contingencies. Inflation per annum in the foreign
market is estimated to be 7.2Z in 1986, 6.8X in 1987 and 1988. 7.01 in
1989, 7.12 in 1990, and 4.02 thereafter. Local inflation is currently 30X
per annum. It is assumed that any persistent divergence between local and
foreign costs will be corrected by exchange rate adjustments. Details of
cost estimates, financing plan, and needed Government budgetary allocations
for the project are shown in Annex 111-11.
3.32      Cost estimates are based on data provided by the MCW, HOE, NCC,
NTC and consultants. They have been derived as follows and indicate the
status of project preparation:
i)   TANZAM Highway Rehabilitation.  Estimates are based on detailed
'engineering by consultants.
ii)  Gravel Roads Rehabilitation.  Estimates are based on field
surveys and costs of similar vorks carried out by contract.
Detailed engineering would not be required for these works.
iii) Staff Housing. Estimates are based on standard designs for
Government housing. The costs are presently about US$450 per
square meter.
iv) Spare Parts, etc., Training Aids and Equipment Office Equipment
and Supplies, and Traffic Counting Equipment.  Estimates are
mostly based on approximate quantities and any balances available
during project implementation would be allocated to procuring
additional stocks of spare parts for road maintenance equipment.
v)  Technical Assistance and Training Experts and Consulting
Services for Studies. Estimates are based on recenr costs of
similar services employed by the executing agencies.
vi) Consulting Services for Construction Supervision. Estimates are
based on recent costs of similar services equal to about 62 of
the estimated construction cost.
vii) Fellowships. Estimates are based on average costs in India,
Europe, and the United States.
Financing Plan
3.33      The project cost is US$107.7 million equivalent.  The financing
of the project cost is to be shared between the Association, cofinanciers,
and Government as shown below:
Local          Foreign        Total
(US$million)    (US$million)  (USSmillion)
IDA                                        50.0           50.0
AfDF                        -              19.4           19.4
Kingdom of Norway                           6.9            6.9
DANIDA                                      2.0            2.0
Government                 29.4             -             29.4
29.4            78.3          107.7



- 28 -
D. Implementation
3.34      The projects would be Implemented by the MCW and MOE.  Insofar as
the assistance to the local contracting industry is concerned, it will be
implemented by the NCC under the direction of the MCW. Similarly,
assistance to the trucking industry will be implemented by NTC, also under
the direction of MCW. The Project Coordinator, located in MCW, will
provide overall coordination of the various project elements and be
responsible under the authority of the MCW for compliance with accounting,
auditing, and reporting requirements of the project. The project is
expected to be physically completed by December 31, 1991. The timing of
the execution of the project components is shown in the bar chart in Annex
III-12. The steps to be taken to initiate project execution are detailed
in Annex III-13. These should be agreed with Government at negotitions.
E. Procurement
3.35      Procurement arrangements are as follows:
Amounts and Methods of Procurement (US$ million)a/
Procurement Method     Total
Project
Category                                    ICB    LCB  Other  N.A. Cost b/
Civil Works (TANZAM Highway)                31.1    -    26.6c/  -      57.7
(13.2)                      (13.2)
Civil Works (Gravel Roads)                  17.2   3.1    -      -      20.3
(10.3) (1.8)                (12.1)
Civil Works (Buildings)                            0.8    -      -       0.8
(0.4)                (0.4)
Mechanical Service Contracts                       1.0    -      -       1.0
(0.7)                (0.7)
Spare Parts and Components (MCW)             1.5    -    1.5d/   -      3.0
(1.5)       (1.5)          (3.0)
Spare Parts, Tires, Batteries (Trucking)   2.9    -    2.9d/   -         5.8
(2.9)       (2.9)          (5.8)
Traffic Counting and Office Equipment               -    0.3e/   -      0.3
Training Equipment and Transport             0.7    -    0.5dl   -       1.2
(0.7)       (0.5)           (1.2)
Tech. Asst. & Consulting Services            -      -     -    14.6    14.6
(10.6)  (10.6)
Fellowships                                  -      -     -     3.0     3.0
(3.0)   (3.0)
TOTAL . . . . . . . . ......    53.4   4.9  31.8   17.6   107.7
(28.6) (2.9) (4.9) (13.6) ( 50.0)
a/  Amount financed by IDA in parenthesis.
b/  Including Taxes.
c/ Procurement will be in accordance with AfDF procedures.
d/  International Shopping.
e/ Procurement will be in accordance with DANIDA procedures.



- 29 -
3.36      All civil works would be executed by contract.  The
rehabilitation of the TANZAM Highway would be divided into four contracts.
Two contracts covering about 130 km will be financed by AfDF and
procurement will be in accordance with AfDF procedures. Procurement for
the other two contracts covering about 165 km (US$31.1 million equivalent)
to be financed by the Association and the Kingdom of Norway and procurement
of civil works for about 85% of the rehabilitation of gravel roads (US$17.2
million equivalent) would be carried out under ICB in line with World Bank
Group guidelines. About 15X of the rehabilitation of gravel roads (US$3.1
million equivalent), which will comprise contracts less than US$500,000 and
are expected to be unattractive to foreign contractors, will be carried out
under LCB. Civil works for staff housing, student hostel extension (US$0.8
million equivalent) will also be under LCB. Mechanical service contracts
(US$1.0 million) for the rehabilitation of equipment (including vehicles)
would be awarded after LCB.
3.37      Procurement of spare parts, tires and batteries, and transport
equipment (US$5.1 million equivalent) would be through ICB in line with
World Bank Group guidelines. International shopping would be permitted for
proprietary spare parts and components (US$4.4 million equivalent) and for
training aids and equipment (US$0.5 million equivalent). Contracts for
goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate of US$1.0
million would be procured under LCB. The LCB procedures have been reviewed
by the Association and found satisfactory except for a preference presently
given to bids from parastatals which will not be applied to Association
financed projects. Typical bidding documents would be reviewed by the
Association prior to their issue.
3.38.     Consultants for technical assistance and other consulting
services (US$10.6 million equivalent) to be financed by the Association
will be appointed in accordance with World Bank Group guidelines. Price
will not be a consideration in the evaluation of consultants proposals.
Consulting services (US$4.0 million) expected be financed by others will be
subject to their procurement rules.
3.39     Bidders will be pre-qualified for all civil works.  All contracts
in excess of US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to prior review of the
Association; this is expected to cover 30% of the project costs. Local
contractors will have 7.5% preference for civil works.
F. Disbursements
3.40      The project is expected to be fully disbursed by December 31,
1991 and the proposed credit closing date is June 30, 1992. The estimated
disbursement profile is close to the historical profile for transport
projects in the region. The credit would be disbursed against the
following categories and on the basis of the estimated disbursement
schedule given in Annex III-14.
i)   65% of total expenditures for rehabilitation of the TANZAM
Highway;
ii) 60% of total expenditures for rehabilitation of the gravel roads;
iii) 65% of total expenditures for mechanical service contracts;



- 30 -
iv)  50% of total expenditures for construction of staff housing and
student hostel extension;
v)   OOZ of foreign expenditures for road maintenance equipment,
spare parts and components, tires and batteries, training aids
and equipment, and transport vehicles; and
vi)  90Z of total expenditures net of taxes and duties for services of
consultants domiciled within Tanzania and 1OOZ of foreign
expenditures for services of other consultants.
All disbursement requests would be fully documented except for (a)
disbursements under Civil Works contracts of less than US$100,000
equivalent (LCB); (b) all other items under contracts or purchase orders of
less than US$20,000 equivalent. Disbursements for the above items would be
made against Statements of Expenditures, documentation for which would be
retained by the implementing agencies and make available for Association
review during supervision.
3.41      A revolving fund will be established for the Association credit
in a special account which will be established and operated by the
Government in the Central Bank of Tanzania. Initial deposit of US$3.3
million will be made from the credit account to cover the initial three
months of Association disbursements. Further deposits by the Association
from the credit account for the purpose of replenishing the special account
would be made against withdrawal applications supported by appropriate
documents. The Government has agreed on the conditions under which the
special account will be established and operated.
G. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting Requirements
3.42      Project accounts will be maintained by the Accounts Section of
MCW, giving details of expenditure incurred-both local and foreign, for
each project component. Since the audited accounts of the Government and
the audit report thereon are normally available only more than a year after
the end of the fiscal year, the Government has agreed that the project
accounts maintained by MCW be audited and certified, and a copy of the
certified accounts sent to the Bank not later than nine months after the
close of each fiscal year. The annual accounts will be audited and
certified by an independent auditor. In addition, the MCW will maintain
proforma accounts of the project expenditure an a quarterly basis and
submit to the Association along with the quarterly progress reports (para
3.44).
3.43      The Controller and Auditor-General (CAG) is the statutory
authority responsible for audit and certification of the annual accounts of
the Government, including those of MCW. The Government budgeting,
accounting, and auditing procedures are described in Annex III-15. The CAG
is an independent Government agency which has staff permanently attached to
the ministries and to the regional offices. About seven CAG staff are
attached to the MCW. Though CAG is authorized to have 450 staff, the
actual staff is only 309, of which 166 are stationed in Dar-es-Salaam and
143 in the regions. The shortage of staff is the reason for delays of the



- 31 -
audited accounts. However, there are several accounting firms which have
competent staff to prepare the project audits, if this becomes necessary.
The Government has fulfilled satisfactorily the auditing covenant in the
Trucking Industry Improvement and Rehabilitation Project (Credit 743-TA)
closed on June 30, 1985 by submitting to the Association reports by
independent auditors.
3.44      Responsibility for project reporting would be shared between the
MCW, MOE, NTC, the NCC, and consultants as follows:
i)   inception, progress, and final reports on technical assistance
and studies by consultants providing these services in accordance
with their respective terms of reference; and
ii) consolidated quarterly progress reports and the project
completion report by the Project Coordinator.
The quarterly progress reports will include quarterly statement of project
accounts. The project completion report, in a form satisfactory to the
Association, will be submitted not later than six months after the project
closing date.
R. Environmental Impact
3.45      The project will not cause any adverse effect on the
environment. Marginal improvements to the environment would occur through
better drainage of the gravel roads. The rehabilitation of the TANZAM
highway will benefit the environment through less consumption of fuel
resulting in improved air quality.



- 32 -
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The project can be separated into six components for purposes
of economic analysis: (i) rehabilitation of the TANZAM highway (552 of
total cost); (ii) rehabilitation of the gravel road network and
associated with this, assistance to the local construction industry
(23%); (iii) rehabilitation of highway maintenance equipment (5%); (Iv)
technical assistaace and training to MCW (8%); (v) studies (2X); and (vi)
assistance to the trucking sector (7%). Technical assistance and training
are expected to have a generally beneficial effect on all MCW activity
including the various rehabilitation activities. These and the various
studies have not been analyzed. On the other hand, the four remaining
components, TANZAM Highway, gravel road, equipment rehabilitation, and
the trucking component which account for 90% of total forecast investment
are separately analyzed below. Details are given in Annex IV-1.
4.02      The direct project benefits, from both the highway and trucking
components, will be a reduction in vehicle operating costs (voc). The
forecasts of voc reductions for both the TANZAM highway and gravel roads
rehabilitation program were obtained by application of the World Bank/UK
Transport and Road Research Laboratory highway model. These will be
substantially translated into lower transport costs for the movement of
agriculture products and inputs, both for trucks and the large number of
pickups and four-wheel vehicles that operate in rural areas. This can be
expected to assist in stimulating increased production. The
beneficiaries from the gravel roads rehabilitation program and the
trucking component will be Tanzanians. However, a proportion varying
from about 5 to 20% by section, of the benefits from TANZ,N highway
rehabiliation will go to Zambia.
B. Economic Returns
TANZAM Highway Rehabilitation
4.03      The total distance to be rehabilitated is 295 km, analytically
separable into six sections. The average daily traffic ranged from 225
to 800 when the feasibility study was undertaken in 1982. Spot checks
since then have revealed a mixed pattern with some sections showing lower
growth rates and others higher. To maintain consistency, the 1982
figures have been employed as a base, reduced by the well-documented
reduction in Zambian traffic movements by road which occurred since then
as a result of increased Tazara capacity. The rate %,f growth of t-raffic
has been assumed at 41/2% p.a. which is consistent with projections of
economic recovery in Tanzania together with increased inter-regional
movements as a result of relaxation of renitrictions on movement of
agricultural produce. The Economic Rates of Return (ERR) and relevant
data are shown below:



- 33 -
TANZAM Highway Section       I     II      III     IV    V      VI    Total
Length (km)                  85    22       50     45     58    33      295
Average Base Year
Daily Traffic (vpd)       780   500     500    230    490   205
Truck Traffic (vpd)
-Tanzania                 350   216     216    100    128    78
-Zambia                    20    20      20      20     20    20
ERR                          49    36      28      37     46    23      39
ERR excluding Zambian        44    31       23     32     41    18       34
The ERRs range between 49% and 23% with an average of 39%.  The rates on
individual sections, and on average, are satisfactory.
Gravel Roads Rehabilitation
4.04      The main gravel road network covers 6,560 km.  In January 1986,
consultants completed a detailed analysis of its physical condition and
identified about 3500 km as feasible for rehabilitation. Of these, the
high priority roads total approximately 800 km. The remaining roads of
lower priority would be considered for subsequent rehabilitation within
the framework of the annual Government review of the gravel road
rehabilitation program (para 3.12).
4.05      The economic evaluation is based upon the costs of various
rehabilitative activities, which have been obtained from recent works
undertaken for and by MCW. The assessment of benefits takes into
account, inter alia, the actual and prospective regional distribution of
agricultural activity and the corresponding flows of outputs and inputs
between regions and to the country's border points. The unit benefits
are applied to traftic forecas-- thus generated.
4.06      The traffic growth forecast varies from region to region but on
the average, the same assumptions have been made regarding traffic growth
as for the TANZAM highway namely 41/2% p.a. from completion of
rehabilitation. The ERR on the three-year rehabilitation program is 27%
on average, and on individual roads ranges from 38% to 15%. Both the
overell ERR and those on individual roads are satisfactory.
Equipment Rehabilitation
4.07      Equipment (including vehicles) to be rehabilitated was
purchased under the Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects, and the economic
justification for its procurement was then demonstrated. The
rehabilitation .-equirements vary from item to item, but in all cases the
result will be to bring the equipment ap to close to the original
standard.
4.08      The average cost of items procured under the Fifth Highway
Project was approximately US$26,000 equivalent each. The rehabilitation



- 34 -
costs are escimated to vary on average from US$6,000 to US$12,000. On
that basis, and assuming that the rehabilitated equipment life will be
equivalent to about 8O% of new equipment, the ERR is over 100X.
Trucking
4.09      The proposed assistance to the trucking sector has three
distinct components: (i) spare parts; (ii) tires and batteries; and
(iii) technical assistance. The spare parts component can be subdivided
into items which have a reasonably predictable life, as they are replaced
at predetermined intervals, and more major items which are replaced when
failure occurs. The former comprise filters, gaskets, spark
plugs/injector units etc. while the latter are mainly items such as
bearings, suspension units, generators etc.
4.10      The spare parts packages have yet to be identified with
precision and indeed cannot be without a detailed inspe-tion of vehicles
which have passed provisional screening for inclusion in the program.
However, it is reasonable to assume that in Tanzanian conditions, where
the optimal life of trucks is estimated as six years, the average life of
the above-mentioned spare parts is two years.
4.11      The estimated spare parts cost per vehicle is US$5,400
equivalent (1985 prices) or US$2,700 per vehicle per annum. The vehicles
to be selected for the program are expected to be two or three years
old.  The physical depreciation profile for trucks in Tanzania is not
known and it is assumed that half way through normal life, the average
depreciation of 16% p.a. would obtain. Of that depreciation, at least
half can be attributed to items covered by the spare parts program. The
vehicles will probably be a mix which includes the standard trucks of
Tanzania-Leyland, Mercedes, Fiat-and others more recently introduced,
such as Scania and Isuzu. The average duty free import cost is about
US$30,000 and the attributable saving in depreciation accordingly about
US$2,400 per annum.
4.12      An additional benefit which, however, is difficult to quantify
is that a number of items, such as generators, once removed and replaced,
can be rehabilitated (commonly rewired) at lower than new costs.
Finally, NTC estimates that lack of replacement items of an annually
recurrent nature leads to significant loss of fuel economy, as much as
15-20%. Taking into consideration the normal annual kilometrage of the
vehicles under the Project and their fuel consumption, a saving of about
US$900 per vehicle per annum would result from a 15% improvement in fuel
efficiency. The overall ERR is sensitive to the speed with which
benefits are realized. The most reasonable assumption is that
implementation will be over two years with benefits accruing in the
second year and the year following implementation. On that basis, the
ERR is 22Z.
4.13      The tires and batteries component is justified on two bases:
(i) vehicles are frequently immobilized in Tanzania for lack of tires and
engines are kept running unnecessarily due to weak batteries. The
general shortage of tires is reflected in the parallel market price,
about 3.0 times official prices; (ii) the local production costs of tires



- 35 -
and batteries are high, and currently the imported cost of raw materials
for the tire factory is about 80% of the imported cost of tires. Raw
materials account for approximately 50% of tire production costs in
Tanzania; local inputs would, therefore, have to be shadow priced at a
low rate to make local production truly competitive with imports at
present price levels. The disparity is even greater for battery
production. The justification for tire and battery import under the
project is, therefore, that alternative sources of supply are inadequate
and at least as costly, and tires and batteries are necessary complements
to the spare parts in maintaining effective trucking capacity.   Due to
the acute shortage of tires and tubes in Tanzania, direct imports under
the proposed Project are expected to be independently supplemented by
provision of raw materials to the tire factory financed from other
sources, a procedure satisfactory to Government.
4.14      The technical assistance would have two components:
(i) technical assistance required for implementation of the spare part
program (46 man months); and (ii) continued technical assistance to NTC
and through it to the RETCO's of about 216 man months over two years.
The implementation of technical assistance can be regarded as a component
of the costs of the spare parts/tire/battery program but the NTC
technical assistance benefits cannot be arcurately quantified.
Total Project Cost, Benefits and ERR
4.15      The distribution of project economic costs is shown below
together with relevant ERR. The ERR on the total project excluding
technical assistance to MCW and studies is 38%. On the highway component
excluding equipment rehabilitation, the ERR is 36%. Both rates and those
of project components are satisfactory.
Economic Rate of Return
TANZAM   Gravel   Total   Equipment  Trucking    Total
Highway  Roads   Highway    Rehab.   Component  Project
Z Total
Project Cost     54        21       75          5          7        871/
ERR                39        27       36       >100         22         38
I/ Excluding Technical Assistance to MCW and studies.
C. Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
4.16      The two main variables which would affect the economic benefits
on the highway rehabilitation components of the project are: (i) a
failure of the economy to recover, and hence for traffic to increase; and
(ii) rehabilitation costs to exceed estimates, including physical
contingencies. To test the effect of these variations both severally and
in combination, the following assumptions were employed: (i) zero
traffic growth; and (ii) rehabilitation costs increased by 25%.



- 36 -
Diversion of traffic to rail is only a limited possibility. Although
TAZARA operates in the same -corridor" as the TANZAM highway, the two
systems are effectively separated by a mountain system from Morogoro to
Makambako, nearly 700 km from Dar es Salaam. Thus most of the direct
competition between road and rail is for Zambia international traffic and
as noted in para 4.02, Zambia road traffic has been reduced to low levels
as a result of increased TAZARA capacity. The effect of any further
diversion is unpredictable but likely to be small and readily subsumed in
the zero traffic growth assumption; it is, therefore, not further
analyzed.
4.17      The results are shown below.  The ERR on the total highway
component declines to 28% with zero traffic growth, to 29% with 25Z
increased costs and to 25Z with these effects combined. These rates and
those for the individual roads or sections are acceptable. The ERR on
the trucking assistance is sensitive to the speed at which rehabilitation
is executed. An increase of 50% in implementation time would reduce
benefits to 15%. Alternatively, a cost increase of 10% which is the
maximum likely for spare parts would reduce the ERR to 20%. Both rates
are acceptable.
Sensitivity Analysis (ERR)
TANZAM    Gravel  Equipment  Trucking        Total
Highway   Roads      Rehab.   Component   Project
Base Case                 39%       27Z     >100%          22Z          38%
Costs + 252               32%       23Z     >O0OZ%i        20%2/        29%
Zero traffic growth       31%       21%                    153/        28%
Costs + 25% and           27%       18%                                 25%
Zero traffic growth
E Equipment rehabilitation ERR unlikely to fall significantly below 100%
under any reasonable assumptions.
21 + 10%.
3/ Delayed return to full service.
4.18      The main risks are institutional.  MCW's maintenance capability
may improve only slowly, either because the organization fails to utilize
limited resources in the most efficient manner, or because these
resources, particularly trained manpower, are insufficiently committed to
their jobs. The project attempts to address these problems which were
prominent in execution of previous projects by providing a clear focus
for MCW maintenance activity by encouraging a policy of limiting force
account works to routine maintenance activities only, and ensuring that
there is a continuing supply of trained manpower which will allow for
loss to the private sector or other activities. A further risk is that
the gravel road rehabilitation program may not be executed in as timely a
fashion as desirable and completion of individual road components are
delayed. This risk will be reduced to acceptable levels by annual review
of the program. Finally, the local contracting industry may respond
slowly to the opportunity to participate in the gravel roads



- 37 -
rehabilitation program, and thus development of the industry may be
slow. This risk will be minimized by provision of contractor training
and support to the NCC under the project. Risk from higher than expected
costs will be minimized by (i) financing a time slice of gravel road
rehabilitation, (ii) rehabilitating the highest priority equipment items,
and (iii) reducing the number of trucks repaired if spares requirement
are above estimates.



- 38 -
V. AGRffEENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      Agreement has been reached with the Government as follows:
a)   not later than January 1, 1987, the Government will submit to the
Association for its review an overall Transport Sector Policy
paper (para 1.10);
b)   not later than January 1, 1987 and annually thereafter, the
Government will compile and publish Annual Transport Statistics
with a format and contents satisfactory to the Association (para
1.13);
c)   the Government will consult with the Association before either
making any changes in the overall transport investment program
or increasing or decreasing the allocation to any individual item
by more than 25%, or in aggregate by more than 15% in real terms
(para 1.18);
d)   not later than December 31, 1986, the Government will enact
legislation as necessary to reform axle load control and adopt a
plan, all satisfactory to the Association, for the enforcement of
the new regulations and will in,tiate the enforcement of such
plan not later than three months thereafter (para 2.03);
e)   (i) inputs financed by the project would be allocated in
accordance with specific criteria based on immediate trucking
needs; (ii) inputs supplied through official channels shall be
alqlocated to the most efficient users based upon criteria
satisfactory to the Association and would be subject to both
import duty and sales tax; (iii) tariffs for inter-regional
movements will be based upon competitive bids whenever feasible;
and (iv) tariffs for intra-regional movements will be based upon
the cost of providing the transport service.  In regard to (ii)
above, not later than September 30, 1986, the Government will
prepare workable criteria satisfactory to the Association failing
which official inputs will be distributed in line with the
distribution of ownership (para 2.10);
f)   the Government will give priority in the allocation of trained
manpower under the project to staffing the Regional Government
highway units (including the Districts) (para 2.16);
g)   not later than December 31 each year, beginning in 1986, the
Government will furnish to the Association for its approval
(i) the annual program of gravel road rehabilitation giving
details of each road section, length, traffic data, standards,
and cost estimates for the following fiscal year; and (ii) review
of institutional arrangements and funding of maintenance of the
rehabilitated roads to ensure that they are adequate (para.
3.12);



- 39 -
h)   not later than December 31, 1986, the Government will dispose of
all scrap parts, components, equipment and vehicles, and take
measures, thereafter, regularly to dispose of equipment and
vehicles which have reached the end of their economic life (para
3.15);
i) (i) not later than December 31, 1987, the Government will review
the existing civil engineering courses and submit to the
Association for its review new proposals for course content and
syllabi including the proposed highway specialization in the
final year, and (ii) not later than July 1, 1987, will appoint a
qualified counterpart to each of the 9 instructors financed under
the project (para 3.20);
j)   NCC will charge fees for admission to its training courses and
technical assistance services at levels to be agreed with the
Association (para 3.24);
k)   spare parts, tires and batteries to be financed under the pcoject
will be allocated to vehicles in accordance with criteria to be
agreed with the Association. The private sector operators
excluding the cooperative unions will receive at least 65% of the
allocations under the project (para 3.26);
1)   an-implementation schedule (para 3.34);
m)   contracts for the rehabilitation of the TANZAM highway and,
except as otherwise specified below, contracts for rehabilitation
of gravel roads will be awarded through ICB in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines (para 3.36);
n)   with the approval of the Association, contracts for the civil
works for the rehabilitation of gravel roads less than US$500,000
each up to a total value not exceeding US$3.1 million may be
awarded through LCB in accordance with local procedures except
that no preference shall be given to parastatal companies and
Government agencies (paras 3.36 and 3.37);
o)   mechanical service contracts for the rehabilitation of equipment
(including vehicles) will be awarded through LCB-in accordance
with local procedures except that no preference shall be given to
parastatal companies and Government agencies (para 3.36);
p)   procurement of spare parts, tires, and batteries, transport
equipment for the Dar-es-Salaam Technical College and office
equipment and supplies will be awarded through ICB in accordance
with Bank Group guidelines (para 3.37);
q)   procurement of proprietary spare parts may be awarded through
international shopping (para 3.37);
r)   procurement of goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to
an aggregate of US$1.0 million may be awarded through LCB (para
3.37);



-140 -
a)   consultants for studies and technical assistance will be engaged
under terms of reference and conditions satisfactory to the
Association in accordance with Bank Group guidelines and price
will not be a factor in their selection (para 3.38);
t)   conditions under which the special account will be established
and operated (para 3.41); and
u)   not later than 6 months after closing of each fiscal year, the
Government will submit to the Association a financial statement
of the project accounts certified by an independent auditor and a
report of such scope and detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested (para 3.42).
5.02      Agreement having been reached with Government on the above, the
project is suitable for a credit to the United Republic of Tanzania in the
amount of SDR 43.3 million on standard IDA terms.



- 41 -
Annex I-1
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Transport Sector Investment Program (FYI986-88)
A. Investments
TShs. (Million)        Financing
Local Foreign Total      (Foreign)
Roads
TANZAM Highway                            245    510    755       IDA/Various
Gravel Roads                               82    122    204
Nyanguge-Musoma                            44     93    137       EEC
Songea-Makambako                           81    246    327       ODA
Cbalinze-Mukumbara                        160    340    500       FRG
Kibiti-Lindi                              150     50    200        -
Trunk Road Maintenance                     16    150    166       IDA
Mufundi Sugar Mill Access Road            105     62    167       EEC
Arusha-Magugu                             130    530    660       Italy
Mombo-Lushoto                               0     26      26      FRG
Lusahunga-Bukombe                         100    256    356       EEC
TANZAM Highway (Morogoro)                   0     80     80       Japan
Kilombero Ferry                             -     66      66      Switzerland
Others (Studies, etc.)                     50    106    156       IDA/Various
Subtotal                               1163   2637   3800
Road Transport (Trucking)                  60    330    390
Tanzania Railways Corporation
Quarry Equipment                            0    100    100       Canada
Telecommunications                          0    130    130       FRG/Canada
Machinery/Equipment                         0     48      48       -
Morogoro Railway Workshop                   0     49     49       Canada
Technical Assistance (Marine)               0     20     20       Denmark
Wagons                                      0     84     84       Various
Kigoma Port                                 0     73      73      EEC
Track (Bridge Overhaul)                     0     66     66       Canada
Locomotive Spares                           0    122    122       Canada
Rolling Stock Spares                       47      0     47       -
New Locomotives1/
(12 Mainline, 24 Shunting)                  0    560    560       -
Others                                      0     49     49       -
ubtotal                                 47   1300   1347



- 42 -
Annex I-1
Page 2 of 3
Tanzania/Zambia Railway Authority
Wagons, Track Maintenance Equipment,
and Workshop Equipment                  100    235    335       Various
Tanzania Harbors Authority
Ship Repair Facilities                     10     35     45       Norway
Dar Port Rehabilitation2/                 360    647   1007       IDA/Norway/
Netherlands/
Finland/Denmark
Tacoshili                                   0      1       1
Subtotal                                370    683   1053
Aviation
Airports                                  144    170    264
Total Transport                     1884   5302   7186
Source: Ministry of Communications and Works.
I/ Feasibility Study Underway.
/ Credit No. 1536-TA, 1984.



- 43 -
Annex I-I
Page 3 of 3
B. Program Benefits and Justification
1.        The Highway investment program comprises a mixture of new
construction, all of which is currently underway and rehabilitation. The
major new construction which opens up previously virtually inaccessible
territory is the Songea-Makambako route financed by British ODA. Other new
roads in the Lake Victoria area are largely substitutes for or essentially
major upgrading of existing lake or road systems. Typically one would
expect an ERR of about 15Z on new road construction, rising through 20% to
50% on major paved road rehabilitation to 60%-80Z on gravel and less
expensive paved highway rehabilitation. On that basis the average ERR over
the total program is probably about 252-30%. The benefits would be
realized in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs.
2.        For port development the ERR calculated at appraisal of the Port
Rehabilitation Project was 332. Evidence to date indicates this will be at
least achieved, probably exceeded as containerization is increasing at
least in line with predictions. The benefits are in a number of forms,
mainly reduced shipping costs but also reduced damage to goods and loss of
grain.
3.        Railway investment benefits are more difficult to assess as our
present knowledge of the efficiency of railway operations, and hence the
optimum measures to improve them is rather weak. In the case of TRC, too,
a significant part (over 40%) is purchase of locomotives which may be of
doubtful economic justification. Assuming 10% ERR on locomotivs purchase,
and about 23% (as in the recently approved Zambia Fourth Railway Project)
on other items yield an average 18Z. The same might be expected of the
Tazara investments, which are prospectively much smaller and less
relevant. The benefits would flow directly from increased system capacity
compared with the -no-investment- situations, which in turn translates into
lower transport costs through avoidance of the more expensive trucking
movements for rail freight.
4.        Provision of truck spare parts under the proposed project are
expected to yield an ERR of 22%. The EEC financed rehabilitation project
was estimated to yield an ERR of approximately 50%. On average
(unweighted) the ERR can be expected to be about 36Z.
5.        Sufficient information is not available to assess the ERR on
airport rehabilitation.
6.        On the basis of the above tentative evluations, the overall ERR
on the program would be about 25%.



- 44 -
Annex I-2
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Experience with Past Lending in the Transport Sector
1.        Bank group involvement in the highway sector began with a project
in 1964 (Credit 48-TA, US$ 14 million) to assist construction of six road
sections totalling 860 kms. The project also provided for technical
assistance and training to the Ministry of Communicatfnns and Works. A
supplementary credit (Credit 115-TA, US$ 3 million) was extended in 1968 to
meet cost overruns. After initial delays, the project was satisfactorily
completed in 1970. A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) (No. 791,
June 26, 1975) found that implementation of the project's technical
assistance and training component was slow and difficult because of (i) the
delays and reluctance in recruiting expatriate staff, (ii) cultural and
language problems experienced by the expatriates, and (iii) shortage of
adequately qualified local staff.
2.        Similar problems were experienced during the Third, Fourth, and
initial stages of the Fifth Highway project. The Second Highway Project
(Credit 142-TA, US$ 15.5 million, Loan 586-TA, US$ 7.0 million, and a
Swedish Credit, US$ 7.5 million) in 1969, which did not have a technical
assistance or training component, was for construction of two difficult
sections, aggregating 499 kms, of the TANZAM highway. The PPAR (Report
No. 4030 of June 30, 1982) concluded that the project was expeditiously and
well executed below appraisal costs and was economically justified.
3.        The Third Highway Project (Credit 265-TA, US$ 6.5 million) was
for the upgrading to paved standard of a 200 km trunk road section and
construction of feeder roads in cotton producing areas in the north of the
country and technical assistance and training. The PPAR (Report No. 4031
of June 30, 1982) concluded that the project was not a success. It was
only partially completed when the project was closed in September 1979
after an extension of about 4 years at costs above appraisal estimates.
Savings of US$ 1.9 million from Loan 586-TA, Second Highway Project, were
used to meet the additional expenditures. The training of Tanzanian
engineers met only limited success and the staffing program was abandoned.
Many lessons were learned from the project and the principal ones are: (i)
detailed engineering of civil works should be complete before appraisal;
(ii) the Bank Group should be explicit in its analysis of increased risks
expected in yielding to Government demands; (iii) the re-appraisal of a
project due to changed circumstances should receive the same attention and
effort as a regular appraisal; and (iv) Government commitment is essential
for technical assistance to succeed.
4.        In 1975, the Association financed a Fourth Highway Project
(Highway Maintenance) (Credit 507-TA, US$ 10.2 million) which for the first
time addressed the road maintenance problem and provided for direct
assistance to strengthen the trunk road maintenance operations. The
project was closed on December 31, 1982 without achieving all its



- 45 -
Annex I-2
Page 2 of 3
objectives. A Project Completion Report is under preparation and the
findings are that (i) a project, particularly one dealing with road
maintenance, should be designed in detail before appraisal and should be
based on a realistic implementation schedule, (ii) the Government should
be encouraged to carrying out most of the maintenance works by contract,
(iii) Government commitment is essential for success with technical
assistance. The Fifth Highway Project (Credit 876-TA, US$ 20.5 million)
with similar maintenance objectives of the previous project has performed
slightly better with greater Government appreciation of need for
technical assistance. The project is scheduled to close on December 31,
1985 with a road maintenance organization in place, but there are two
important lessons: (i) technical assistance experts should be carefully
chosen, as ineffective or poor technical assistance experts could cause
more damage to institutional development than inexperienced locals, and
(ii) force account works should be kept to a minimum by letting out all
the periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works by contract.
5.        In 1977, the Association gave a credit for a Trucking Industry
Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (Credit 743-TA, US$20.0 million)
designed to establish five Regional Trucking Companies (RETCO). At the
beginning, project implementation was slow and difficult, technical
assistance inputs were found ineffective and there were long delays in
the procurement of trucks and spare parts. A new General Manager at the
NTC in 1978 and changes in the original technical assistance team brought
about a dramatic improvement in performance and by the end of 1983, the
five RETCOs had been established and were in operation showing
satisfactory profits and procurement problems and delays were largely
resolved. Although the project has been completed successfully, there is
need for continuation of technical assistance to the RETC0 and provisions
for this have been made in the proposed project. Again, the lessons here
are that: (i) technical assistance experts have to be carefully selected
and (ii) the Government must be committed to using the technical
assistance.
6.        The Bank has also participated in the development of railways
in Tanzania through the East African Community (EAC). In 1955 Loan
110-EA (US$24.0 million) was made to the East African High Commission to
cover in part, the preparation of development plans for the railways of
the East African Railways and Harbours Administration (EARHA). In 1970,
Loan 674-EA (US$42.0 million) was approved for the East African Railways
to assist in financing right of way improvements, rolling stocks,
materials and equipment. Both these projects were completed
satisfactorily. The Bank has participated in financing three port
projects, also through the former EAC which included improvements to
ports in Tanzania. In September 1965, Loan 428-EA (US$38.0 million) was
approved to provide assistance in financing railway and harbor
improvements through the EARHA for use, in part, for cargo handling
equipment, harbor craft and construction of berths 4, 5 and 6 at Dar es
Salaam as well as financing for railway rolling stock. The project was



- 46 -
Annex I-2
Page 3 of 3
satisfactorily completed in 1971. Loan 638-EA (US$35.0 million), was
approved in July 1969 to provide financial assistance through the then
East African Harbours Corporation (EARC, establ'shed in June 1969 to
operate the harbors of the three member countries of the EAC), inter
alia, for completion of berths 4, 5 and 6 and construction of berths 7
and 8 together with a single buoy mooring for tankers, a dhow wharf,
improvements to the lighterage berth and cargo handling equipment at Dar
es Salaam. These projects have been completed and the PPAR (Report No.
4029 of July 15, 1982 covering both port projects points out that despite
costs overruns (30%) and implementation delays, (2-3 years) the two
projects can be considered successful since the additions to physical
capacity provided facilities essential to the foreign trade of Kenya and
Tanzania and the neighboring land-locked countries; however, they had
limited effect on productivity, managerial and operational aspects of the
ports. The PPAR suggests that future projects should place special
emphasis on productivity, manpower development and on the maintenance of
facilities and equipment.
7.        These issues are being addressed in the Port Rehabilitation
Project CR 1536-TA (US$27 million equivalent) which was approved in
November 1984 and which is expected to be largely executed by December
1987. This provides for substantial technical assistance and training,
rehabilitation and conversion of berths to handle the rapidly increasing
volume of containerized traffic, provision of related equipment and spare
parts and modernization of grain handling facilities. The project is
extensively cofinanced by Denmark, Finland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway,
and the UK, with a parallel general cargo rehabilitation project financed
by Sweden.



- 47 -                        Annex II-1
Page 1 of 5
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPO0i
Proposals for a Road Transport policy and Freight Rates and Bus Fares
A. A Proposal for a Road Transport Policy
Summry
Background
1.        The Trucking Industry Rehabilitation and Improvement Project
(Cr. 743-TA) included as a covenant that "the borrower shall prepare ... in
consultation with the Association, a plan detailing the medium and
long-term program for the development of the trucking industry'. The
proposal summarized below was produced by the National Transport
Corporation (NTC) in response to this requirement and submitted to the
Government of Tanzania (GOT) in July 1985, copied to the Association. GOT
reaction has not yet been received.
The Proposal
2.        The  proposal has two main features (i) it recognizes that data
on the road transport industry is weak and that therefore judgements on the
direction in which the industry should be pointed are largely qualitative;
and (ii) it proposes the use of objective criteria to determine the
allocation of resources to and within the sector. However, it implicitly
judges that it would be politically unacceptable to advocate complete
abandonment of a degree of GOT control, and therefore, concentrates on
removal of the least efficient controls.
3.        The specific proposals which are designed to improve efficiency
of road transport are:
(a) Rates and Fares should be fixed only where there is a clear
need. This is in contradistinction to the existing philosophy of
theoretically fixing rates in all circumstances. NTC however,
suggests intra-regional freight rates and continue to be fixed as
the supply of capacity in some regions is very price inelastic
add the transport market accordingly imperfect.
(b) The main basis for the allocation of new vehicles should be
efficiency. Based upon the admittedly Imperfect knowledge of
operations, performance norms by vehicle size are established.
It is advocated that the share of vehicles allocated to the
private sector be increased and allocation be to those companies
which meet these norms. The private sector's market share would
be determined by the extent to which it and the other transport
operators met these norms. In practice, a reduction in crop
authority vehicles is thus envisaged. Regional transport



- 48 -                     Annex 11-1
Page 2 of 5
companies (RETCOs) should be expected to meet the same criteria
as private, and although the proposal advocates assistance (by
NTC) where performance is below standard it also states 'If after
all efforts a company proves inherently unviable, such a company
must be allowed to go into liquidation". Cooperatives should in
general not be directly engaged in road transport, but should
become a shareholder in RETCO's where they exist. Where (i)
transport supply is insufficient, and (i) RETCO's do not exist,
RETCOs should be formed in preference to direct cooperative
activity. A 'critical mass' of 20 vehicles is considered
necessary; if the market is too small, then formation of a
cooperative transport wing or participation in a neighbouring
RETCO is advocated. NTC assistance in all this activity is
advocated; and
(c)  A number of specific measures to increase trucking efficiency,
both public and private are proposed.
i)    selective establishment of freight forwarding centers to
improve available knowledge of demand (particularly
backhaul) for trucking services;
ii)   vehicle repair project for non EEC vehicles (follow-up on
successful EEC project);
iii) introduction of more logical rates and fares policy (paras
6-10);
iv)   review/study of vehicle specifications/standardizations,
most efficient operational modes, (pallets, containers,
semi-trailers) and role and need for storage;
v)    training and technicl assistance; (the National Institute
of Transport) NIT has suffered high turnover due partly to
poor salaries. Pending review technical assistance should
be employed where necessary. Likewise, skill gaps in road
transport operations should be filled by Technical
Assistance Staff.
4.        Recommendations are made on roles of national institutions.  This
is one of the more controversial parts of the proposal. Apart from
recommending increased planning capability in MCW (which is being done) the
main recommedations are:
(a) role of NTC should be changed to a Road Transport Board with two
functions; development, coordination, monitoring the road
transport industry on behalf of MCW, and guidance/assistance to
public road transport.



- 49 -
Annex II-1
Page 3 of 5
(b)  The State Motor Corporation (SNC) presently is responsible for
determining the type and quantity of imported trucks and (under
vetting by Prime Minister's Office) the regional distribution.
Widespread criticisms of SMC are reflected in an implicit
diminution of SMC's role; vehicle choice should be made by road
transport industry through MCW (and again, implicitly with NTC
assistance) and SMC input should be confined to detailed
specifications. Furthermore, MCW should be responsible for
determining vehicle types and numbers and regional distribution,
SMC only for mechanics of importation, and distribution; and
(c)  the proposal recommends the Tanzania Road Transporters
Association and Road Tanker Association should be consulted on
issues regarding road transport policy and implementation.
Comments
5.        The proposal is still under consideration by GOT.  If accepted,
it would in general represent a significant move away from present
government policy in the direction of deregulating the trucking sector.
Within that general framework, we have the following main observations.
I)   our comments on rate fixing are given in paras 6-10 below.
ii)  the proposed employment of objective norms to determine
allocation of vehicles is preferable to the existing ad hoc
arrangement, and should be supported in principle. The
determination of norms will require considerable care, however,
as the performance which can be reasonably expected varies
between inter and intra regional acivities, and probably between
regions.
iii) if NTC is transformed into a Road Transport Board, its terms of
reference will need to be carefully prepared to avoid conflict of
industry advisor and public sector trucking supervisor.
iv)  the proposals to reduce the role of SMC and to establish some
form of freight bureaux are commendable, although the exact
mechanism for the latter will have to be carefully worked out;
and
v)   the proposal calls for a follow-up to the successful EEC financed
vehicle repair project. Such a project, which would contribute
to restoring vehicles to serviceable condition, would complement
the trucking component of the proposed Sixth Highway
(Rehabilitation) Project.



- 50 -
Annex II-!
Page 4 of 5
B. A Proposal for a Policy and Procedures for Fixing
Freight Rates and Bus Fares
Summary
6.        The proposal commences by noting that there are several different
systems of determining freight rates in Tanzania. The closest to a free
market system is inter-regional contracts based upon tender. The other
rates are fixed by different bodies (Regional Transport Coordinating
Committees, crop authorities, etc.) on a basis which lacks adequate
statistical background, except perhaps where RETCOs operate. Passenger
fares are even more closely controlled. Dar-es-Salaam bus fares have to be
approved by the president. The proposal criticizes existing practice
rather than principle, and does not seem to question that in general fares
should be set rather than dictated by competitive pressure. The analysis,
therefore, concentrates on devising means by which costs can be determined,
as a basis for rates. There may be an implicit belief that transport
demand exceeds supply, and that resultant economic rents should not be
officially acknowledge or encouraged.
7.        The basis for cost analysis follows traditional lines, defining
fixed and variable, direct and indirect. A feature of importance is that
replacement cost depreciation is recommended. Depreciation is based upon
an average vehicle life and is not assumed variable with mileage. The
costs are in financial terms, and therefore includes taxes. The cost per
ton kilometer is based upon assumptions regarding annual mileage, vehicle
capacity and utilization. The basis for these assumptions are prim,arily
RETCO experience, for which detailed data (of official activity at any
rate) is available.
8.        The proposal's recommendations can be summarized as follows:
i)   intra-regional rates should still be fixed by RICC, review at
least twice annually. No reason is given for continued rate
fixing;
ii) inter-regional long haulage for crop authorities should be based
on tenders submitted before crop year commencement;
iii) other long haulage rates should be determined by market forces;
iv) it is proposed that inter-regional fuel transport rates should
continue to be fixed by MCW on the basis of cost information
chanelled through NTC while; and
v)   intra-regional fuel transport rates should continue to be RICC
responsibility.
Rather sJ milar proposals are made for bus transport.



- 51 -
Annex II-1
Page 5 of 5
9.        The proposal notes that vehicle costs vary according to size, but
rates could hardly discriminate on the same basis, and should be uniform.
The proposal then suggests costs for a representative (8 ton) vehicle be
employed for setting rates (obviously under (i) above, only) and similar
procedures, using another representative vehicle for fuel transport. Once
again, representative vehicles are suggested for bus transport cost
calculation. The rest of the proposal is concerned with escablishing
operating norms for the various vehicles, and based upon these (and the
need for confirmation of financial viability of operators) the information
to be provided by prospective operators.
Comments
10.       This proposal attempts to Improve the logic of a controlled rate
structure by devising objective norms. However, it prospectively increases
the flow of paperwork, basically to establish costs, which will
disproportionately affect small truckers, who lack the necessary
administrataive resources. The net degree of rate deregulation proposed is
not very high, as intra-state operations are still controlled and the
Regional Transport Coordination Committee will still have an important role
to play.  Thus the pzopcaal, although on balance directionally correct,
does not go far enough and the onus should be on Government/NTC to justify
why further deregulation, which would prospectively reduce paperwork and
resultant discrimination, should not be pursued.



-52- -A    II-2
Pge 1 of I
Sim BEm  pmum)
son of 1983 Tm    frm RPod Use Muze an Rood ExPendUwes
Dotamia    lasotuo   !Mal,d    Swaziland    TMda31            zaiaa      Zlzdbabm
acquisitib of   
C aCOB
iyort dties etc.            16            7          2            9          190           12         11
gtratiofees                 0            0          -           -            6            -           -
16           7          2            9          196           12          11
A1mal dwges                  1            1          2            0           24           5          20
FuEl                       14           4         37           17          984           35         100
T nres/tubes               1            0          0            1           14            1          0
Spare parts                3            2          1            3           -            2           4
hmrges an
foreiEp veicles              0            -          5            0            1            1          0
(1) Total incmae fra
road user durges        38           15         49           31         1220           57        138
PRad expeies
(2) Mdnt"e                  11            3          6           4          317            17         48
BNesbunt                28           35          -            9         431            36         40
(3)LUALroad                 39           38          6           13         748            53         88
Ratio (1/3 x 1OD)           96           41        719          232          163           107         56
(1/2x lOD)           324          405        719          740         385           323        342



- 53 -
Annex III-1
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Gravel Roads Rehabilitation Program
Length  Rehabilitation      Traffic (ADT)
Ranking  Road Section            KM    Cost (TShxlOOO) Trucks Others Total  ERR%
;. (1987 - 1989)
1     Horogoro-Tanga          63.9      18,507         112    142   254    38
2     Geita-Nwanza
(Kagera Brd.)        30.5        9,883        113      59   172    27
3     Singida-Tabora Brd.   113.9       37,841         114     41   155    26
4     Geita-Usagara          100.9      30,841         113     59   172    26
5     Shinyanga-Mwanza Brd.  57.5       17,748         113     59   172    23
6     Biharamulo-Kagera
(Mwanza Brd.)        87.9       28,817        113      59   172    23
7     Babati-Arusha
kDodoma Brd.)        35.6       12,853         82    132   214    22
8     Dodoma-Singida          68.7      29,678          60     45   105    22
9     Tabora-Nzega           115.8      39,249          59     60   119    17
10     Babati-Singida/
Arusha Border        104.5      45,074          82     25   107    15
Sub-Total           779.2      270,491



54 -                  Annex III-1
Page 2 of 2
Length  Rehabilitation     Traffic (ADT)
Ranking  Road Section            KM    Cost (TShxlOOO) Trucks Others Total ERRZ
B. (1990 - 1996)
11    Makutano-Sirari         103.6      31,887
12     Singida-Issuna         63.0       20,757
13    Manyoni-Dodoma Brd.    58.7        23,733
14    Makuyuni-Babat4         57.3       31,609
15     Singida-Arusha Brd.    56.5       24,728
16    Himo Junct.-Tarakea    63.8        38,220
17    Nzega-Tabora/
Shinyanga Brd.       30.R        6,259
18     Issuna-Manyoni         46.1       16,275
19     Usagara-Shinyanga      83.8       27,559
20     Dodoma Brd.-Iringa    112.6       34,923
21     Tunduma-Rukwa Brd.    108.0       43,734
22     Luiche-Mbeya Brd.      118.5      40,965
23     Songea-Tunduru         264.8     173,201
24     Nyakahura-Nzaza        102.3      45,838
25     Lusahunga-Niakamazi-
Kigoma Brd.          45.9       15,312
26     Kigoma-Kigoma Junction 74.4       25,484
27     Nzega-Tabora
(Singida Brd.)      106.5       49,127
28     Dodoma-Iringa Brd.    137.5       79,787
29     Nbeya-Rungwa          295.6      110,007
30     Mpanda-Luiche          238.0     140,210
31     Songea-Mbinga           97.6      66,170
32     Tabora-Ipole            91.0      28,001
33     Kagera-Kigoma          213.7      97,858
34     Shinyanga-Tabora       47.6       18,305
Subtotal            2,617.6   1,309,949
TOTAL            3,396.8   1,580,440



- 55 -
Annex III-2
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Equipment Rehabilitation Program
Quantity Financed Under
Fourth    Fifth                                For
Equipment         Hwy. Proj. Hwy. Proj  Total  Serviceable  Rehabilitation
Tractors                21        22       43         26             17
Bulldozers              11         7       18         11              7
Graders                 28        42       70         50             20
Compactors              13        16       29         22              7
Wheel Loaders            6         9       15         11              4
Bitumen Plants           7         6       13         10              3
Crusher                  -         I        1          1              -
Concrete Mixers          2         1        3          2              1
Compressors              5         -        5          4              1
Subtotal              93       104     197         137             60
Vehicles
Tippers                126       105      231        152             79
Low Loaders              -         2        2          2
Light Vehicles          31        66       97         77             20
Water Bouzer             4         11      15         12              3
Fuel Tanks              10         4       14         12              2
Mobile Workshops         4         5        9          8              1
Trucks with Crane        -         3        3          3
Subtotal             175       196     371         266            105
TOTAL            268        300     568         403           165
Source:  Ministry of Communications and Works.



- 56 -
Annex 111-3
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance to MCW Equipment Rehabilitation program -
Outline Terms of Reference
1.        The purpose of the technical assistance is to provide consulting
services for a period of two years with the following primary objectives:
i)   to implement a program of repair and rehabilitation of road
maintenance equipment (including vehicles);
ii) to establish a preventive maintenance capability in the five
zonal workshops; and
iii) to improve availability rates of road maintenance equipment.
Scope of Technical Assistance
2.        The technical assistance team will prepare and supervise the
execution of an equipment rehabilitation program. The work shall be
carried out in the following stages:
Stage 1:   Review the MCW inventory of road maintenance equipment, carry
out detailed inspection of each item of equipment, identify
the items to be rehabilitated, prepare list of spare parts
and components, and estimate the rehabilitation costs.
Stage II:  Prepare bid documents suitable for Local Competitive Bidding
and assist Government in inviting bids, bid evaluation, and
contract awards.
Stage III: Supervise the execution of the rehabilitation contracts
including certification of payments.
3.        Where rehabilitation by contract is not feasible because of
absence of bids, the equipment shall be brought to the nearest zonal
workshop or the Central workshop at Morogoro and rehabilitated using MCW
mechanics and labor. During the implementation of the program, the
technical assistance team shall reorganize the five zonal arorkshops to
establish a preventive maintenance capability with a limited capability to
carry out major repairs by use of component exchange. The team will be
assigned local counterpart staff which should be trained to carry out
similar programs on a continuing basis.



- 57 -
Annex 111-3
Page 2 of 2
Staffing
4.        The technical assistance team will consist of the following:
Man Months
1 No. Mechanical Engineer/Team Leader                   24
5 No. Master Mechanics                                  120
Total                                         144
The above staff are expected to be provided by an international contractor
and must have good and proven experience in maintaining equipment in a
civil engineering contractor's organization.



- 58 -
Annex III-4
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance to MCW - Outline Terms of Reference
1.        The MCW requires technical assistance in the following areas:
(i) Road Maintenance, (ii) Training, and (iii) Equipment Management. In
addition, because of the complexity of the project, the diversity of
project components, and the different executing agencies involved, there is
need for the appointment of a Project Coordinator.
2.        It is envisaged that the technical assistance team wll consist
of:
1 Advisor to the Project Coordinator,
I Senior Road Maintenance Advisor,
1 Training Advisor, and
1 Advisor to the Equipment Management Engineer.
Advisor to the Project Coordinator (24 man months)
3.        He will assist the Project Coordinator to provide the project
with overall coordination and monitoring services with special emphasis on:
i)   procurement,
ii)  project reporting, and
iii) management of project accounts in coordination with related
executing agencies.
4.        The project coordinator would assist the various executing
agencies to:
i)   prepare bid documents in accordance with the Association's
procurement guidelines and, where applicable, with the
procurement procedures prescribed by co-financing agencies;
ii)  prepare detailed work programs for each project component;
iii) prepare and implement a monitoring system for measuring progress
under the project of all cor.poitents;
iv)  supervise and manage operations of revolving funds and maintain
proper project account; aid
v)   prepare disbursement applications to withdraw credit funds.
5.        He will be responsible for the compilation of a consolidated
quarterly progress report including performance indicators to monitor
progress of the various project components. He will prepare and maintain



- 59 -                  Annex III-4
Page 2 of 3
overall project accounts and ensure that they are audited annually by
independent auditors and their reports submitted to the Association within
the period stipulated in the Credit Agreement. At the close of the
project, he will prepare a draft Project Completion Report (PCR) in
accordance with Association guidelines.
Senior Road Maintenance Advisor (36 man months)
6.        He will report to the Chief Engineer (Maintenance) and assist and
advise him on all aspects of road maintenance including planning,
organization, control, technology, budgeting, and execution of maintenance
tasks. He will be responsible for the overall supervision of road
maintenance operations in the field. He will be required to travel
extensively inside the country to visit TRM offices and train engineers in
the planning, scheduling and execution of maintenance tasks and monitoring
performance and quality in accordance with satisfactory engineering
practices and standards.
7.        He will assist the MCW to establish a Highway Maintenance
Management System to (i) prepare annual and long-term road maintenance
programs and plans, (ii) determine the required allocations of equipment,
labor, and material resources, (iii) schedule annual maintenance
operations, (iv) cost maintenance operations, and (v) prepare monthly,
quarterly, and annual performance reporting for review and decision making
by various levels of management.
Training Advisor (24 man months)
8.        He will report to the Chief of the MCW Training Division and will
be responsible for:
i)   establishing an MCW training policy and coordinating all training
within the ministry;
ii) identifying manpower training needs to carry out road planning,
construction, and maintenance;
iii) preparing annual training programs for development of existing
MCW staff and assist in their implementation;
iv) determining resources to conduct the training programs;
v)   approving training curricula and materials;
vi) designing an evaluation system to monitor the results of training
and determine the effectiveness of completed training programs;
vii) taking necessary measures to improve training at the Morogoro
Training School; and
viii) reviewing and making recommendations for the improvement of
existing personnel policies.



- 60 -                 Annex 111-4
Page 3 of 3
9.        He will assist a the MCW in establishing and preparing an annual
training calendar with details of all courses, seminars, and other
instructions conducted by the MCW and available to it. He will assist in
the selection and nomination of trainees, and subsequent monitoring of
their progress and evaluating results.
Advisor to the Equipment Management Specialist (36 man months)
10.       He will assist the Equipment Management Engineer to be
responsible for the reliability of the road maintenance fleet. In order to
achieve this, his duties will primarily be as follows:
i)   based on annual road maintenance program, he will determine short
and medium term needs of equipment and their respective work
location considering expected levels of availability and
utilization;
ii)  identifying def.ciencies in the levels of equipment and vehicle
maintenance, and liaise with private garages and the Central
Mechanical Equipment Department to ensure proper maintenance of
equipment and vehicle fleet employed on road maintenance;
iii) develop forecasts for equipment and vehicle purchases and
replacement;
iv)  establish preventive maintenance schedules for all equipment and
vehicles, and design and set up a monitoring system to ensure the
carrying out of these schedules by the Central Mechanical
Department or private garages
v)   monitor and record equipment and vehicle movements and their
availability and utilization rates; and
vi)  carry out -on site- inspections to supervise workshop operations,
and report non-performance and/or failure and recommend/implement
necessary corrections.
11.       In addition to the above, he will determine the short and
long-term needs of spare parts. He will design and set up a long-term
spare parts supply system. To carry out this task, he will:
i)   review and implement ordering procedures taking into account a
realistic lead time;
ii)  identify the type and assess the quantity of spare parts to be
ordered or re-ordered and stocked in the various stores;
iii) stock spare parts at the central and field stores in relation
with the specific assignment of equipment covered by each store;
iv)  establish maximum and minimum levels of each type of spare parts
in each field store and supporting level at the central store;
and
v)   implement a parts consumption recording system by item of
equipment.



- 61 -
Annex III-5
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Assistance to Dar-es-Salaam Technical College
I. Cost Estimates
Local Costs Foreign Costs
(TShs)         (US$)
A. Technical Assistance
1 No. Highway Engineeing Instructor (36 mm)
2 No. Soils and Materials Instructors (72 mm)
1 No. Hydraulics Instructor (36 um)
1 No. Construction Management Instructor (36 mm)
2 No. Structural Engineering Instructor (72 mm)
2 No. Surveying Instructors (72 mm)                 ______22_ 000
Subtotal 9 No. Instructors (324 mm)               2,594,000     1,422,000
B. Housing and Hostel Extension
9 No. Houses                                        4,514,000       275,000
Student hostel Extension                              821,000        50,000
Subtotal                                          5,335,000       325,000
C. Training Equipment
Training Aids                                           -             43,200
Soils and Materials Lab Equipment                       -            195,000
Surveying Equipment                                     -            254,400
Text Books                                              -            26,500
Subtotal                                            AI-.noo       519,100
D. Transport
I No. Bus (65 seater)                                   -            85,200
1 No. Mini Bus (20 seater)                              -            26,000
1 No. 4 WD Station Wagon                                -             17,000
2 No. Motor Cycles                                      -             5,700
Subtotal                                            114,000        133,900
Base Costs (March 1986)                        8,487,000     2,374,000



- 62 -
Annex 111-5
Page 2 of 2
II. Training Programs
Total No.
of Students  Expected to Graduate/Year  Expatriate        Local
Enrolled    Gen. Civil Eng. Hwy. Eng.  Instructors  Counterparts
1st Year      250            50            25           9       Trng Locally
2nd Year      275             50           25           9        Trng Abroad
3rd Year      300             75           25           9        Trng Locally
4th Year      300             75           25           -        Take over
onwards                                                          from Ex-
patriate
During Project Implementation:
Total No. of Civil Engineering Technicians to Graduate - 350
Of which Specializtion in Highway Engineering            - 100
Source: Dar-es-Salasm Technical College/Ministry of Education



- 63 -
Annex 111-6
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (RERABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Two Year-Training Program - Morogoro Training School
No. of     Candidates/      Projected
Course Description    Duration    Courses       Course       Total Trained
Road Inspectors       1 month         4           10               40
Road Foremen          3 months        4           25              100
Nech. Foremen         3 months        4           25              100
Elect. Foremen        3 months        4           25              100
Equipment Service
Nanagers            1 month         4           10               40
Instructional
Techniques for
Job Trainers        2 weeks        8            12.              96
476



- 64 -
Annex III-7
Page 1 of 5
TANZAIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATioN) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Assistance to the Local Contracting Industry
1.        According to the latest records of the Board of Registration of
Architects, Quantity Surveyors and Building Contractors, there are 551
contractors registered in the country as engaged in building construction. They
are divided into 7 classes as follows:
Class        No.        Contracting Capa:ity               Local/Foreign
I             37        Exceeding TShs. _'0 million            23 local/14 foreign
II            17        TShs 15 - 30 million                   17 local
III           62        TShs 10 - 15 million                   62 local
IV            83        TShs  6 - 10 million                   83 local
V            100        TShs  3 -  6 million                  100 local
VI           128        TShs 1.5 - 3 million                  128 local
VII          244        TShs 0 - 1.5 million                  244 local
2.        ln Classes III-VII, about 25X-35X may not be operating currently as
construction firms because of decline in growth of the industry during the last
few years. These classes also suffer from lack of management expertise, trained
staff, and adequate financial resources. Civil Enginzering Contractors are
separately registered by the Director of Buildings of MCW and 21 local
contractors (14 from Class I above) are registered as Civil Engineering
Contractors.
3.        Interviews of the 21 local firms show that about 10 of them have some
of the basic equipment needed to undertake road rehabilitation works. These old
established local contractors have in the past carried out maintenance and
rehabilitation of city and town roads and some regional roads. Even today, some
of the roads in Arusha and Moshi are maintained by local contractors. With
training and technical assistance under the project, these 21 local firms have
the potential to carry out road rehabilitation and maintenance works. However,
the current economic situation demands considerable enterprise and alertness
from the contractors particularly to secure payments by Government agencies on
time, obtain foreign exchange for necessary imports, locate sources of materials
and supplies, and be flexible in their operations.
4.        The project will aim at improving the environment for contracting by
enabling local contractors to have access to foreign exchange, cash advances and
payments with minimum delay under improved contract conditions and providing
opportunities for training and obtaining foreign technical assistance at modest
costs. In the process, the Government will be assisted in its efforts to build
an efficient administration of local contractors and generate confidence and
trust between the Government and local contractors. The long term objective is
to encourage Government to reduce its own direct labor forces and pass the risks
of maintaining these forces to the local contractors.
5.        Details of the project assistance to the local contracting industry
are given below:



- 65 -
Annex III-7
Page 2 of 5
I. Composition and Costs
Local Costs Foreign Costs
Item                                                  (TShs)          (US$)
A. TRAINING
I No. Construction Management Training Ex;pert (36 mm)        -           172,000
1 No. Road Construction Training Expert (24 mm)               -           100,000
Short Term Experts - 8 No. Visits (8 mm)                      -            50,000
Local Consultants: 1000 hrs. e TShs 500/hr.                 500,000         -
Hotel Accommodations                                        600,000         -
Housing                                                     940,000         -
Training Aids and Equipment                                   -            68,000
1 No. Mini Bus                                                -            22,000
2 No. Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                               -            18,000
Fellowships for Counterparts                                  -            40,000
Hire of Lecture Theaters and Laboratories                   120,000         -
Office Rent                                                 180,000         -
Maintenance of Vehicles and Fuel                          1,200,000         -
Subtotal                                                3,540,000       470,000
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1 No. Senior Construction Engineer/Team Leader (36 mm)        -           288,000
1 No. Construction Engineer (36 mm)                           -           288,000
1 No. Mechanical Engineer (36 mm)                             -           288,000
Local Consultants: 400 hrs. e TShs 500/hr.                  200,000         -
Hotel Accommodations                                        720,000         -
Housing                                                   1,200,000         -
3 No. Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                               -            36,ijuO
3 No. Refrigerators                                           -             3,000
4 No. Air Conditioners                                        -             4,000
3 No. Cookers                                                 -             3,000
Felloships for Counterparts                                   -            36,000
Maintenance of Vehicles and Fuel                          1,000,000         -
Subtotal                                                3,120,000       964,000
Total                                                6,660,000    1,434,000



- 66 -
Annex III-7
Page 3 of 5
II.  Training Courses
Course No. I
MANAGEMENT COURSE FOR SITE MANAGERS,
INCLUDING AGENTS, AND SENIOR SUPERVISORS
IN ROAD REHABILITATION/MAINTENANCE
Duration of Course    : 3 Weeks
Venue                  : Faculty of Engineering,
University of Dar es Salaam
Training Needs         : Strategic Planning and Cost Estimating
Tendering Procedures
Working Capital Management
Contract Administration
Personnel Management
Productivity and Construction
Economic and Plant, Labour, and Material
Safety and Welfare
Cost Control
Claims
Number of Courses
Per Year            : Three
Number of Candidates
Per Course          : Ten



- 67 -
Annex III-7
Page 4 of 5
Course No. 2
REFRESHER COURSE FOR SUPERVISORS/ENGINEERS
IN ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
Duration of Course    : 3 Weeks
Venue                 : Faculty of Engineering,
University of Dar es Salaam
Training Needs        : Basic Design Concept of Road Construction
Soils and Material Testing
Plant Operating and Maintenance
Work Scheduling
Setting up of Maintenance Organization
Categories of Maiantenance
- Routine, Periodic, and Emergency
- Programming
- Quality Control
Economics of Road Maintenance - Total
Transportation Costs (Construction,
Maintenance, and User Costs)
Safety and Welfare
Cost Control
Number of Courses
Per Year            : Three
Number of Candidates
Per Course          : Fiftee-



- 68 -
Annex III-7
Page 5 of 5
Course No. 3
TRAINING COURSE FOR FOREMEN/TECHNICIANS
IN ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE
Duration of Course    : 3 Weeks
Venue                 : Dar es Salaasm Technical College and
Arusha Technical College
Training Needs        : Basic Design Concept of Road Construction
Plant Operating and Maintenance
Work Scheduling
Safety and Welfare
Programming
Human Relations
Documentation and Basic Costing
Site Management, Supervision, and
Preventive Maintenance
Quality Control
Number of Courses
Per Year            : Three
Number of Candidates
Per Course          : Twenty
Source: National Construction Council.



- 69 -
Annex III-8
Page 1 of 1
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Assistance to the Trucking Industry
A. Assistance to NTC
Est. Foreign Cost (USS)
Technical Assistance (48 m)                                   297,000
Spare Parts for 600 Vehicles                                2,800,000
Tires and Tubes for 2 years (8500 pcs)                      2,000,000
Subtotal                                                  5,097,000
B. Assistance to RETCOs
Technical Assistance (9 specialists - 216 am)                 900,000
Spares                                                        200.000
Subtotal                                                  1,100,000
C. Base Cost (March 1986)                                   6,197,000



- 70 -                     Annex III-9
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
SISTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Feasibility Study and Detailed Engineering
Outline Terms of Reference
1.        The Dar es Salaam-Chalinze (109 km), Chalinze-Segera-Mkumbara
(270 km) Mkumbara-Moshi (183 km) and contiguous Segera-Tanga (73 km) and
Moshi-Arusha (80 km) roads lying in the coastal and north eastern areas
of Tanzania provide the main highway connection between Dar es Salaam
and the Tanzam highway, and the agriculturally productive north.
2.        The road conditions vary from coastal low lying to Savannah,
with rolling but mountainous terrain. The Dar es Salaam-Chalinze
section will be rehabilitated under the proposed (Sixth Highway)
project, but the rest of the system, except for the Nkumbara-Moshi
section is in poor condition.   The roads which are paved, are in poor
condition due in part to rehabilitation works having been commenced
several years ago and then abandoned, with the paved surface partly
removed and the basic roads structure excessively exposed to the effects
of weather and heavy vehicles.
3.        The purpose of the study is to:
(a) review alternative means, particularly road and rail, of
movement of freight traffic in the Dar es Salaam-Tanga-Arusha
corridor and assess the volume and characteristics of the
proportion which can be expected to be conveyed by road over
the forecast period;
(b) assess strength of the existing pavement and determine, on the
basis of technical and economic criteria, appropriate level of
rehabilitation/strengthening measures for the road in the
sections Chalinze-Mkumbara, Moshi-Arusha and Tanga-Segera; and
(c) undertake detailed engineering for the rehabilitation/
strengthening of priority section(s) of the road based on (b);
and prepare documentation suitable for International
Competetive Bidding.



- 71 -
Annex 111-9
Page 2 of 2
4.        In the conduct of their work, the consultants shall cooperate
fully with the Government Ministries and Departments responsible for
highway planning and development. Government will provide the
consultants with available data and services. The consultants shall,
however, be solely responsible for the analysis and interpretation of
all data received and for the conclusions and recommendations in their
reports. The consultants shall submit their recommendations for
achieving the above objectives in consideration of economic feasibility
with due regard to financial and other conditions prevailing in
Tanzania.
5.        In making their assessment of traffic in the 'corridor" and
its distribution, the consultants shall inter alia review (i) proposals
by Tanzania Railway Corporation (TRC) for improvement to the 'Link Line-
between Dar es Salaam and Arusha; (ii) developments in transport of
petroleum products for northern Tanzania through Mombasa (Kenya); and
(iii) development to paved standard of the Arusha-Dodoma road.



- 72 -
Annex 111-10
TANZANIA          Page 1 of 3
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Agricultural Feeder Roads Study - Terms of Reference
1.        The availability of a feeder road system, particularly in the most
highly productive areas, is considered to be of high priority by the
Government of the United Republic of Tanzania and a necessary complement to
the agricultural policy of the Government. The ILO as well as aid agencies
such as NORAD and DANIDA are helping the Gover,ment with construction and
rehabilitation of feeder roads in selected regions, but the needs of other
regions also have to be addressed. As a first step in assisting the
Government, a Feeder Roads Study should be carried out. The aims of such a
study shall be to:
(i)     determine the extent to which inadequate transport-systems
from the agricultural areas have caused serious losses in
agricultural potential, transport delays, and additional
production costs of key agricultural crops;
(ii)    identify how feeder roads in future can be properly
maintained, including an assessmant of whether the
istitutions and revenue base are likely to be in place to
allow proper maintenance;
(iii)   improve project selection and ranking of agricultural
feeder road priorities;
(iv)    define how a road maintenance capability can be installed;
and
(v)    assess how appropriate technological methods of
construction and maintenance can be introduced.
2.        In particular the Feeder Road Study shall:
(a)     evaluate the planning and selection procesL involved in
preparation of feeder roads programs and, if necessary,
propose improvement of such processes;
(b)     evaluate the organization and methods of execution of
construction and maintenance work, and recommend
institution and organization to be used, including the
possible introduction of new methods of organizing
construction and maintenance with an active village
participation;



- 73 -                    Annex III-10
Page 2 of 3
(c)     formulate proposals regarding the timely availability of
local funds;
(d)     formulate appropriate technologies to be employed as
methods of construction and maintenance;
(e)     assess demand and availability of local staff and their
training needs, and formulate appropriate remedial or
supplementary training programs; and
(f)     prepare a long-term program of feeder road development and
identify, as a first step, about 1.000 kms for
construction under a future project.
3.        The study will consist of the following three main parts:
Part 1: A study of the Tanzanian agencies currently involved in
construction and maintenance of feeder roads, including
the funding for such agencies. The consultants shall
review the current institutional arrangements. In
addition to the MCW, and Regional and District
Authorities, the role of the Ministries of Agriculture and
of Cooperative Development shall be examined. The
consultants shall review existing institutional
arrangements and assess their adequacy, particularly with
reference to maintenance of the feeder road network after
(re) construction. In their assessment, they shall pay
particular attention to the demand for and supply of
qualified staff and local funding. The consultants shall
review the Gover.ment's current selection methods and
criteria employed for priority rating of feeder roads and
recommend appropriate criteria with a view to developing
an adequate methodology for initial screening. This would
involve the examination of the following:
(a)     network criteria wilch would include termination
at one end to a paved road or a gravel road, or a
railway station; and
(b)     economic criteria such as providing a route for
marketing agricultural output or the supply of
agricultural inputs.
The consultants shall address the maintenance problems and
make recommendations for improved organization -
procedures and funding. The consultants should analyze
the adequacy of the budgetary procedures, especially as
regards the reliability of funding for feeder road
maintenance, and suggest improvement if necessary.
Part 2: A study of the engineering procedures and of the training
needs. The consultants shall review the engineering
procedures (surveys, alignment selection, pavement
engineerilg, etc.) and practices, specifically the rminimum
design standards for newly constructed low trafficked



-74-
-    -                      Annex III-10
Page 3 of 3
gravel and earth roads   Based on this raview, the
consultants shall comnent on their adequacy and assess
whether more appropriate technologies in construction and
maintenance could be introduced. The consultants shall
assess the demand for training of local staff, in
particular in the event that new and appropriate
technologies are introduced. In doing uo, the consultants
shall liaise closely with the Training Department of the
xCv.
Part 3: A study to identify about 1.000 kms of priority feeder
roads, and feasibility studies and engineering studies for
preparation of one or more feeder roads projects, for
Implementation in the near future. This study will be
conducted in two stages:
(a)    A reconnaissance survey of of high priority
agricultural regions in order to prepare an
inventory of the feeder roads in three regions.
(b)    Applying the project selection methods recommended
in Part 1 of the study, identification of about
1.000 kms of feeder roads for an in-depth study in
stage 2, i.e.
(c)    Technical and economic studies to confirm their
feasibility for construction. During this stage,
the consultants are free to adopt their own
methodology for economic evaluation within the
limits of the estimated budget. A sophisticated
approach is not envisaged. The evaluatiorn will
consist essentially of:
(1)     defining the area of influence of the road
or group of roads;
(2)     relating the roads to notable development,
particularly agricultural, that may be
planned or ongoing in these areas;
(3)     calculating benefits in vehicle operating
costs (both normal and generated traffic)
to be derived from prornsed improvements,
development benefits due to the road
improvements, and benefits accruing from
improved social activities and conditions;
and
(4)    calculating economic indicators, including
Economic Rate of Return.



idmi  "CHld   moti  an    uin    MDm        mg  mma  GM           S     am a    a       Kanti   m  gm    gm           qua   ai                         111111
amiz   som   oh    anm   au    im          ua    cm    rag   us          ae    an      am,   Ut       1111   ato      miii   mm             iSautm  Mi WI
m      maU   am       9     IC      A      me.    mla    im mul as mU           m       um   mAn-   USi   aMl         UPi   mmf           maims  nat
1211   "Bit   gam   oan    bit   a         wasm  gm    tno    Kma   Sim   it"    liont  itW    out   iuiti             AvID1               UcISUmS S        tm
sam    eml   mam    a               a      m      0      9       *      0      9       ien    c on          te        a      a11IAtAgeS
ml    on!   am       0      0       0      6      0       0      a      0      0       RIU   oil      1     to        4      9       ESSm        IaNo
"Ia   mu    it       m      a       a      a      0      0       0      0      0      Ia      19     a      ii        O  Imm  aon aumta           mi
ipt    1m1i  u"I            m       m      a      0       0      a      0      a       d      ml !          Nu a             El      CUP um
OK     ab     m                -      -     -                    a        -            dui    cm     a      lam       I  a       a      u     inuauIN
mica    Mgi   Of     0      0       4      m      0      0       lID    lb     S      tOm    tl      a      au        El    at      mstan
isso          a  m                 06   0         m      o       te     a     919Iti          to     ii     emI      1111    c                  nu
cam    mI    tii            0       9  0      0a         0       U      a      I      to      me         a  cc               a                   sm
msm    amg   cam    a       I       a      m      a      0       UL  t    ad          ton    mn    *9       astC              mi    c t me
Vsm Mmm  a lame 
Mtm   ami   a        m      a       m      In      t     a      p.    PR       ait    lb1    IaN     W.    m          a      a      aemTMaus
lb.    Alf           a      a      a       acm    asm   It      mm      am     a      atim    so             a                a     miaSismu
Wm    Sol    *       m      4      6       a      a      I       Is    49      is     m  it          ii 1   a         m      0      UMS15Wgmm
Rise   Ing   La      9      a      a       =      ia     It     5a    is       U      mli    Is      lo     m         a      m      mama
IPmm    m.    am     a                     W a    let    It      at    mat   it        a      itt    It     m           -                    amauim
toI   tam    iW      a         -      -                          mt     Ut    h        f             b      a                                         ama
au    ama    gia   Its       a       B     MN    upa   ma        mo     on a          itml   gam     c      mia am    1m6   lie    am   aua
Wa      -     is     act    ina    a       Ma    Is    am        maK    at    II    mI"    Im        m       at       ml             msm2aJ3MMa
ms    la      a      s       IN     S      mIt    St    I        am     min    m      ato        a           mm1,1    mu     At      isonmfmmmiam
tmg a  am    m       mto   ati    it       Zl     nea    is    aNo    SKI   c         ma      m      U       lma      S0    aam at      ano
Oa     an     s      a         -                     -      - M         Wt    am       at    la      a      ml        am    %I      ama SIumAUmSStw
aM    S0    it       I         -                                          -       -   B         -      -   am         Wt    it        m Ssfl oUIrflmOm
Sci    so                                         St    m        am     timt          a                 -   m-                  -limes
so   m   Gm 0                                                             op        W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~serum man
m111   ant    W      im        -   Is      as      %     a       m      a"    Is       a        -            et       a      mm      m     maunn
aumO m             at     t     ma      i    at mg            Wm     asi                                            sMN11d a   a  m - -   ta
ma      i     a                     *      a      a       m       c     i xi          1 9    ma     i      t         it     a         mSmimm        1maa    
Wmi mm                                      a mmia Is                   a Is            i    ai      a      ma        cii   mm       mimma 
atm    gm     a      m aaI-                                 -             - of19 lb            9is          a9        59        -   gi      NIit'IM        tI
06     Si    m       a         -                                 b    ato- C                  a         - a  t        Ca               glSum  tSmOtI
on    &mm    It      I                     a       s     I       m      m              a.l     m     &Is     is        i            aimatmIatma
ato    up    ma      amI-s-   a                      -           su     ma    IN      4411   ml   it         "        al    S       mtmiTMiinlm          m
AM    ua      ma     I      a       a      ma    PIS    gom    an    aon    ml    ci    dins    ut          IN        a      t  a   m   mmau
wet   mci   ta              a              am                    ch     ao     6 t mmusa   11,    ZO                  III    ,4      mmnmam ae
a"m   am                   -       -   -                -   am    am        a      m6     ma    te       ao                      do i nime amar      Im
VA    NC    m411Z-  -                                       -: 11 b E -  a     a       W      oi am    1 -   is        a        -      atula"maomima
mu    Nu    I I  6to    lo    an    to                                    AU        dt   ~     ~ ~ ~          fmnia tau
van   MAeN a am              a      a      seam   Kma   OmR    via   OKm    an    aims    Ui  am    Ame               UK    iK    aCIm  MMas
91m    cas    MMu    m              a      aim    Bat   "I    ma    cUR    gm    na    daim   Ca            sa            m    a N   a    as   Mmm
a       am iCU    lo m      a1      a      Dut    soa    Dea         am miIgo           CIam Ot 59   eadt   te        mg    go       urns  Sine
mam   a4Ma    mugi   a             a       mai    ma    nt    cam    mimi M  mm slm    ailu  nam    maNO              can    us    "mm
tntZ   ma31   au     a                     m        -            u      eix   em       a      ea"    a      *II       'uN    aim            Imsom  ami
amo   no    maim a             -      -    mIM    me    Uat   a         mim au .o    am    mAm   tam    IOU           ilia    USenlu ma
am erA  rem  raw:
agm   awl  Mal   1m          =I   Oia      ms   mu    no    Am          mu    ama    in    lo        ski   Met        Ama    mo    agmamam  Mm
an    "a    eml   as         Cs     ti     lo     I       a%           SC     mg             m as    n i    It       sa      go     euatmsm3
aui   m6at a         mmm    mat  mI        a      ma    mmi    as       ai      aii    Ita    east    Im     a        mat aiim         muM           Tt
amk    mm   am    Rit    MC    no    mat    au    atl   a               am      Ml    a1    au    itl   ma11          am    ane             annm ms
amlm  Ofm    Wem     Wm      m      aa    an    lmi    at    aa   mW            am     mat   amt    e a s              mi a    m bi l              en I eAR11m  em
TMmgu ma tea                mom m   TM  m  i    lug am                                               --T    i     M  m00u
am 
ILt-Ill XZIU                                                 vzuvwzu



- 76 -
Amgw M1-12
Pqw 1 of 1
snUg Ed wBflN)
Sfhi APPRAISAL R1W
ISp1e.ntatiom Schedule
Proec COMMm                                        1986    1987   198B    1989    1990        1991
A. RoadRM]_t_t_                                                              1
Gravel Roads
B. Equipent Relubilit_ti__ Pr_gr_m
C. Teciila Assist.-ar to MN:
Project coordirat  __iso
Tiradig  Advisor                                                  I I_
piptSt Hlgemvi    t Spclist owiwr
Prcurenmt of Office Equiman, etc.
FP1Jmf l a  for Ebgiemrs
Fellnsupa  for PIa-Wers & otber Profesis
Instruors for Mr-Tech. College
F      h  foPr Instructors
Istructos for corgoro 1sdinh, School
Procurenunt of Trairing Equnpiit. et-c.
Constructim of Hnme E, etc.
, Assistance to local Cm=ctirg Ixlotry
Traixnig
Teclmica  Assistance
F. Assistance to TrucIig I_d stry
Procurement of Spare Parts, etc.
Tedmical Assistancf
G. Other Ccxisultinig Sexvices
Feasibility Studies and Det. Ez,giIIIerilag
g tra Feeder Roads StudyI I I  I I                                  I I _           I I



7-Z          7Anuem III-13
Page 1 of 5
TANflA
SIx=. iIGJnU&  (A U0ILITAflOE) PROJECT
STAF  AhPPISAL REPORT
Steps to Initiate Project Ezecutlon
Project Component and
Government Action Required               Latest Date  Assisted By  Sub1ect To
A. CIVIL WRKS
TANZAlM Hgh aY (ICB)11
a)  Advertise for Contractor
Prequalification                 Jun  1,1986          -    AfDF/IDA Approval
b)  Return of Prequalification
Questionnaire                    Jul 31, 1986         -
c)  Complete Prequalification           Sep 30, 1986  Consultants  IDA Approval
d) Complete Preparation of
Bid Documents                    Jun 30, 1986  Consultants  IDA Approval
e)  Issues to Prequalified
Contractors                      Nov 15, 1986  Consultants  IDA Approval
f)  Return of Bids                     Jan 15, 1987          -
g)  Blid Evaluation                     Mar 15, 1987  Consultants  '.A Approval
h) - Contract Award                     Apr 2, 1987          -      IDA Approval
Gravel Roads
(i) ICB
a) Advertise for Contractor
Prequalification                 Jun  1, 1986  Consultants  IDA Approval
b)  Return of Prequalification
Questionnaire                    Jul 31, 1986         -
c)  Complete Prequalification           Sep 30, 1986  Consultants  IDA Approval
d)  Complete Preparation of Bid
Documents for First Year         Sep 30, 1986
e)  Issue to Prequalified
Contractors                      Oct 31, 1986  Consultants  IDA Approval
f)  Return of Bids                      Dec 31, 1986         -
g)  Bid Evaluation                      Feb 28, 1987  Consultants  IDA Approval
h)  Contract Awards                    Mar 15, 1987          -      IDA Approval
(ii) LCB
a)  Advertise for Contractor
Prequalification                 Jan 2, 1987   Consultsate  IDA Approval
b)  Return of Prequalification
Questionnaire                    Feb 28, 1987         -
c)  Complete Prequalification          Apr 30, 1987  Consultants  IDA Approval
d)  Complete Preparation of Bid
Documents                        May 31, 1987
e)  Issue to Prequalified
Contractors                      May 15, 1987  Consultants  IDA Aproval
f)  Return of Bids                      Jul 15, 1987         -
g)  Bid Evaluation                      Sep 15, 1987  Consultants  IDA Approval
h)  Contract Awards                     Sep 30, 1987         -      IDA Approval
1/  Financed by Association, AfDF, and Norway.



- 78 -
Annex III-13
Page 2 of 5
Construction Supervision
(TANZAM Highway)
a)  Shortlist Consultants             Jul  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
and Finalize TOR
b) Prepare Letter of Invitation
to Consultants including TOR    Jul  1, 1986        -       IDA Review
c)  Issue to Consultants              Jul 15, 1986        -
d)  Return of Consultants Proposals   Aug 31, 1986        -
e)  Evaluation of Proposals           Oct 15, 1986        -       IDA Approval
f)  Contract Award                    Nov  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
Construction Supervision
(Gravel Roads)
a)  Shortlist Consultants             Jul  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
and Finalize TOR
b) Prepare Letter of Invitation
to Consultants                  Jul  1, 1986       -        IDA Review
c)  Issue to Consultants              Jul 15, 1986        -
d)  Return of Consultants Proposals   Aug 31, 1986        -
e) Evaluation of Proposals            Oct 15, 1986        -       IDA Approval
f)  Contract Award                    Nov  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
B. EQUIPMENT REHABILITTION
Spare Parts and Components (ICB)
a) Advertise for Interested
Suppliers                       Feb  1, 1987        -       IDA Approval
b) Complete Preparation of Bid
Documents                       Mar  1, 1987        -       IDA Approval
c)  Issue to Suppliers                Mar 15, 1987        -
d)  Return of Bids                    Apr 15, 1987        -
e)  Bid Evaluation                    Jun 15, 1987        -       IDA Approval
f)  Contract Awards                   Jul  1, 1987        -       IDA Approval
Spare Parts and Components
(Int. Shopping)
a) Complete Preparation of Bid
Documents                       Mar  1, 1987        -       IDA Approval
b) Invite Selected Suppliers
to Bid                          Mar 15, 1987        -
c)  Return of Bids                    Apr 15, 1987        -
d)  Bid Evaluation                    May 15, 1987        -       IDA Approval
e)  Contract Awards                   Jul  1, 1987        -       IDA Approval



-                 ~~~~Amsz 111-13
Pag 3 of 5
Nachanical Services Contracts (LCB)
a)  Advertise for Interested
Contractors                      Jan  1, 1987        -       ID  Approval
b) Complete Preparation of lid
Docueonts                        Feb  1, 1987        -       IDA Approval
c)  Issues to Contractors              Feb 15, 1987        -             -
d)  Return of l1da                     Apr 15, 1987        -             -
e)  Blid Evaluation                    Jun 15, 1987        -       IDA Approval
f)  Contract Awards                    Jul  1, 1987        -       ID Approval
Consultlng Services
(1 Engineer 6 6 Mechanics)
a) Short List Consultants
and Finalize TOR                 Jul  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
b) Prepare Letter of Invitation
to Consultants including TOR    Jul  1, 1986         -       IDn  Review
c)  Issue to Consultants               Jul 15, 1986        -
d)  Return of Consultants' Proposals Aug 31, 1986          -
e)  Evaluation of Proposals            Oct 15, 1986        -       ID  Approval
f)  Contract Award                     Nov  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO MCWI/
a)  Shortlist Consultants              Jul  1, 1986    DANIDA
and Finalize TOR
b) Prepare Letter of Invitation
to consultants                   Jul  1, 1986    DANIDA
c)  Issue to Consultants               Jul 15, 1986    DANIDA
d) Return of Consultants Proposals   Aug 15, 1986         -
e)  Evaluation of Proposals            Sep 15, 1986    DANIDA
f)  Contract Award                     Nov  1, 1986    DANIDA
Traffic Counting Equipment
(Int. Shopping)
a) Complete Preparation of Bid
Documents                        Jan  1, 1987    DANIDA
b)  Invite Selected Suppliers to Bid  Jan 15, 1987    DANIDA
c)  Return of Bids                     Feb 15, 1987       -
d)  Bid Evaluation                     Mar 15, 1987    DANIDA
e)  Contract Awards                    Apr  1, 1987    DANIDA
Office Equipment and Supplies (ICB)
.a) Advertise for Interested
Suppliers                        Jan  1, 1987    DANIDA
b)  Complete Preparation of Bid
Documents                        Jan 15, 1987    DANIDA
c)  Issue to Suppliers                 Feb  1, 1987    DANIDA
d)  Return of Bids                     Mar  1, 1987       -
e)  Bid Evaluation                     Apr  1, 1987    DANIDA
f)  Contract Awards                    May 15, 1987    DANIDA
L/ Financed by DANIDA.



_ BO -               A.ez 111-13
Page 4 of 5
D. TRAINING
Instructors for Dar Tech. College
a) Advertise for Candidates           Jul  1, 1986        -             -
b)  Selection of Candidates           Sep  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
Tralning Aid, Equipment, and
Transport (ICE)
a) Advertise for Interested
Suppliers                       Jul  1, 1986        -
b) Complete Preparation of lid
Documents                       Jul 15, 1986        -       ID  Approval
c)  Issue to Suppliers                Aug  1, 1986        -
d)  Return of Bids                    Sep  1, 1986        -             -
e)  Bid Evaluation                    Oct  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
f)  Contract Awards                   Oct 15, 1986        -       IDA Approval
E. ASSISTANCE TO LOCAL CONTRACTING
INDUSTRY
Training and Technical Assistance
a)  Shortlist Consultants             Jul  1, 1986       -        IDA Approval
and Finalize TOR
b)  Prepare Letter of Invitation      Jul  1, 1986       -        IDA Review
c)  Issue to Consultants              Jul 15, 1986       -
d)  Return of Consultants Proposals   Aug 15, 1986       -
e) Evaluation of Proposals            Sep 15, 1986       -        IDA Approval
f)  Contract                          Nov  1, 1986      -         IDA Approval
F. ASSISTANCE TO TRUCKING INDUSTRY
Spare Parts, etc. (ICB)
a) Advertise for Interested
Suppliers                       Jul  1, 1986       -
b)  Complete Preparation of Bid
Documents                       Jul 15, 1986       -        IDA Approval
c)  Issue to "uppliers                Aug  1, 1986       -
d)  Return of Bids                    Sep. 1, 1986        -
e)  Bid Evaluation                    Oct  1, 1986        -       IDiA Appro-al
f)  Contract Awards                   Oct 15, 1986       -        IDA Approval
Spare Parts (Int. Shopping)
a)  Complete Preparation of Bid
Docuoents                       Jul  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval
b)  Invite Bids from Selected
Suppliers                       Jul 15, 1986       -
c)  Return of Bids                    Aug 15, 1986       -
d)  Bid Evaluation                    Sep 15, 1986        -       IDA Approval
e)  Contract Awards                   Oct  1, 1986        -       IDA Approval



- 81 -
Annex 111-13
Page 5 of 5
G. OTHER CONSULTING SERVICES
Agricultural Feeder Roads Studyl/
a) Shortlist Consultants
and Finalize TOR                 Jul  1, 1986   DANIDA       IDA Review
b)  Prepare Letter of Invitation       Jul  1, 1986   DANIDA
c)  Issue to Consultants               Jul 15, 1986   DANIDA
d) Return of Consultants
Proposals                        Aug 15, 1986     -
e)  Evaluation of Proposals            Sep 15, 1986   DANIDA       IDA Review
f)  Contract Award                     Nov  1, 1986   DANIDA       IDA Review
Feasibility Studies and
Detailed Engineering
a) Shortlist Consultants
and Finalize TOR                 Jul  1, 1986    -           IDA Approval
b)  Prepare Letter of Invitation       Jul  1, 1986    -           IDA Review
c)  Issue to Consultants               Jul 15, 1986    -
d) Return of Consultants
Proposals                        Aug 15, 1986    -
e)  Evaluation of Proposals            Sep 15, 1986    -           IDA Approval
f)  Contract Award                     Nov  1, 1986    -           IDA Approval
/ Financed by DANIDA



- 82 -                    Annex III-14
Page I of 1
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements
at End of Quarter
US$ million
FY1987
September 30, 1986                                               0.7
December  31, 1986                                               1.3
March 31, 1987                                                   3.6
June 30, 1987                                                    6.5
FY1988
September 30, 1987                                              10.2
December  31, 1987                                              13.3
March 31, 1988                                                  16.5
June 30, 1988                                                   19.1
FY1989
September 30, 1988                                             22.8
December  31, 1988                                             25.9
March 31, 1989                                                  29.1
June 30, 1989                                                  31.7
FY1990
September 30, 1989                                             34.7
December  31, 1989                                              37.2
March 31, 1990                                                  39.7
June 30, 1990                                                   41.7
FY1991
September 30, 1990                                             43.2
December  31, 1990                                             45.1
March 31, 1991                                                  46.7
June 30, 1991                                                  48.3
FY1992
September 30, 1991                                             49.1
December 31, 1991                                               50.0
la
Project Closing Date: June 30, 1992.



- 83 -
Annex III-15
Page 1 of 4
TANZANI1A
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Accounting and Auditing Procedures
1.        The overall responsibility for preparing the budget for the
Government rests with the Ministry of Finance assisted by the Accountant
General. The budget is divided into two parts - Capital (Development)
and Revenue. The Capital budget includes expenditures on new projects
and on ongoing projects. It is controlled by the Ministry of Planning
and the Ministry of Finance. No projects are to be included in the
Capital Budget unless they form part of the Government Development Plan
and are cleared by the Ministry of Planning. Guidelines for the
preparation of the budget are issued in January by the Ministry of
Planning for development items and by the Ministry of Finance for revenue
items. Based on these guidelines, budgets are prepared by the various
ministries by the middle of March each years. They are consolidated by
the Ministry of Planning and the Ministry of Finance and then submitted
to the Cabinet for approval and for submission to the Parliament. The
budget is scrutinized by the Financial and Economic Committee of the
Parliament before approval.
2.        So far as the Ministry of Communications and Works (MCW) is
concerned, the responsibility for the Annual Budget rests with the
Director of Planning and Research for Development Expenditure and with
the Chief Accountant for Revenue Expenditure. Budget estimates are
received from the different wings of the Ministry (Communications, Works,
Administration and Manpower, Mechanical and Electrical, and Stores),
reviewed and consolidated and then sent to the Ministry of Finance.
Estimates for maintenance expenditure on roads are initially received
from the regional officers (20 in number) who submit their operational
program for the year. This is reviewed by the maintenance section in the
Works wing and then submitted to the Chief Accountant who then
incorporates it in the budget. The Budget gives details of the proposed
expenses under various categories like personal emoluments, travelling
allowances, office expenses, main road and road bridges, urban roads,
etc. But there is little critical analysis of the items included in the
Budget. Regular staff, casual labor and material costs are estimated on
the basis of actuals for the previous year and a percentage increase on
account of inflation and proposed quantity increase in output. Further
detailed analysis of the requirements is inhibited by the overall limit
of allocation for the Ministry as a whole that is fixed by the Ministry
of Finance. This limit is communicated to the Ministry along with the
guidelines issued for the preparation of the Budget. If the Budget
cannot be pruned to the limit fixed, the matter is discussed with the
Ministry of Finance and modification of the limit sought; but this is
generally not a successful exercise mainly because the limits for the
various ministries are fixed, taking into account the total resources
available and the priority allocations that have to be made on a
country-wide basis.



- 84 -
Annex III-15
Page 2 of 4
3.        After the Budget is approved by Parliament, a copy is received
from the Ministry of Finance in the first week of July along with an
authority, technically termed "Exchequer Issues", to withdraw amounts
from the Treasury for the first quarter of the fiscal year. Such
'Exchequer Issues" are renewed every quarter subject to the limits laid
down in the Budget. On the basis of this autbority, "Warrants of Funds"
are issued by the Chief Accountant to the Directors in the Ministry and
to the Regional Officers. Separate warrants are issued for Revenue
Expenditures (Supply Account) and for Development Expenditures. The
latter requires the approval of the Ministry of Planning. On the basis
of the "Warrants", bills are submitted by the various officers for
incurring expenditures. So far as the Ministry of Works is concerned,
all payments are centralized in the Chief Accountant's office. Bills are
reviewed and checks issued on the Bank of Tanzania. The Bank of Tanzania
has separate accounts for each Ministry and sends monthly statements for
Revenue Expenditure and for Development Expenditure - to the Ministry
and to the Accountant General. The Ministry also prepares monthly
accounts, reconciles them with the statements received from the Bank and
with the budget allocation and then sends a copy to the Accountant
General. A similar procedure is followd in the regions, except that the
National Bank of Commerce functions on behalf of the Bank of Tanzania.
The transactions of the National Bank of Commerce are included in the
monthly statements of the Bank of Tanzania, and those of the regions are
included in those of the Ministry. At the end of the year, annual
accounts are prepared by the Ministry and sent to the Accountant General
and to the Auditor General. Such accounts are required to be submitted
for audit by October 31 of each year.
4.        The Controller and Auditor General (CAG) is the statutory
authority responsible for the audit and certification of the annual
accounts of the Government. He is tc satisfy himself that all moneys
appropriated by Act of Parliament and disbursed have been applied to the
purpose of which they were appropriated and that the expenditure conforms
to the authority which governs it. He exercises the authority not only
by reviewing the annual accounts, but also by an examinatin of the
relevant documents in the various ministries and offices. For this
purpose he has staff permanently attached to the ministries and to the
regional offices. About 7 are attached to the MCW. Though the
sanctioned strength of the CAG is about 450, the actual strength is only
309 of which 166 are stationed in Dar-es-Salaam and 143 in the regions.
However, inspite of this paucity of staff, the state of work seems to be
fairly current.
5.        So far as the Bank highway projects are concerned, they are, as
explained above, included in the Budget of the MCW and the project
expenditures, forming part of the Ministry's expenditures are recorded
and certified in the overall transactions of the Government. But since
the audited accouits of the Government and the audit report thereon would
be available only more than a year after the end of the fiscal year, some
special arrangements have to be made to get proforma accounts of the
project prepared and certified by the CAG within the time limit



-85 -
Annex 111-15
Page 3 of 4
prescribed in the Credit Agreement. A record of the project expenditure
is available in the Works DMvision and there should be no difficulty in
preparing a quarterly statement of the expenditure incurred on the
project and an annual statement at the end of the year, which can be
certified by the CAG. The matter was discussed with the MCW which sees
no difficulty in adopting this procedure.  A form of the quarterly
statement is attached - Attachment 1.



- 86 -                                h    m-is
Pqes 4 of 4
Atadbt I
MUK    rEFUK.TC LU TANZMI
W                  - (1AM PO           EN= F   TM (REEEC   Dm Q
E MpI     to                dtre Ihring       Total Ex3eiture
Cat"M           Beghrudug of Q*ater     ids Quarter            To Bad of QuP_ter       Ramiks
(Cateorie as   Foreigm local Total    Foreiga  local Totl   Foreig  local Tbtal
gLven in th
de c.. of
the Project)
Total:
pim c g       Till egixaLiig of Qua-ter  Ihrrg This Quart      Total Eof Quart
1. mA
2. Otber Donors
3. Govercurt
4. Total



- 87 -
Annex IV-1
Page 1 of 6
TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Economic Analysis
1.        The Tanzam Highway is the most heavily trafficked -vod in
Tanzania. At the time the feasibility study was carried out ;1982)
traffic at the eight traffic counting stations ranged from 22j to 977
vehicles per day. The ERR on the sections then indentified for
rehabilitation ranged from 44% to 107X on the basis of a 10-year
rehabilitation standard with a weighted average of 67%. The costs were
then based upon preliminary estimates, while the benefits resulted from
vehicle operating cost (voc) saving, employing the HDM Highway
Development Model (Kenya version) and assuming traffic growth at 3Z
p.a. 1982-85 and 6% p.a. thereafter.
2.        Since the feasibility study the following events have occured
which require modification to the original analysis:
{i) an additional section of road was surveyed;
(ii) as a result of this survey and review during appraisal of the
whole highway, the sections identified for rehabilitation have
been somewhat changed, within an overall rehabilitation
program which is of approximately the same magnitude as
originally (279 km compared with 298 km);
(iii) unit benefits, again in US$ terms, have remained approximately
unchanged;
(iv) Zambian road traffic, mainly trucks, has declined by about 50%
mainly as a result of increased effective capacity of TAZARA;
and
(v) there has been little growth in GDP (compared with the 3%
p.a. assumed in the feasibility study) and the prognosis for
the future is less optimistic (4-1/2% p.a. maximum compared
with 6%).
3.        As a result the feasibility study cost benefit analysis has
been modified by increasing unit costs uniformly by 28% and decreasing
unit (per kilometer) benefits by amounts ranging from 12% to 25Z by
section, according to the importance of the Zambian traffic, taking into
account that it mainly comprises trucks. In theory, the reduced Zambian
traffic would also increase benefits through increased pavement life,
but this minor effect has been ignored.
4.        The costs and benefit streams for the most and least heavily
trafficked sections to be rehabilitated are shown below. The costs and
benefits of the gravel road rehabilitation program are shown on page 4,
and the components of vehicle operating costs for the typical small and
large trucks operating in Tanzania are shown on pages 5 and 6.



- 88 -
Armax IV-1
-  P    2 oE 6
A. Est1td Costs ad 3efe    Strem  (TSi. uilfr)
1. Sectin -I-TAWAN lgl my
FeadbUlty Sty
Ecczuuc Isiefit/Cost Strem                              Revised
Savizigs n              Increae in I/
Increase in      VehcJe         Total       Rod                        Net
moodperaetivg  Eox t-   Maintewm       Saving in 2/ Fcxomuc
Year         ots Co osts                BenefLtB     Cost          VC          Benefits
1        - 26.7                         -26.7       -37.5             0        -37.5
2        +  .3             23.0          23.4       - .5           20.2          19.7
3        - 4.0             30.3          26.2       - 5.2          25.1          19.9
4        - 2.0             38.5          36.5       - 2.6          30.1          27.5
5        - 2.2             48.0          45.7       - 2.8          33.7          30.9
6        - 2.3             55.8          53.5       - 3.0          33.7         30.7
7        - 2.5             56.0          53.4       - 3.2          33.7         30.5
8        - 2.7             55.7          53.0       - 3.5          33.7          30.2
9        - 12.5            54.9          42.3       -16.1          48.5         32A4
10        -  .2             36.7          86.4       - .4           50.5         50.1
11        -  .3             91.2          90.8       - .4           52.5         52.1
12        -  .3             95.7          95.4       - .5           54.6         54.1
13        -  .4            100.5         1OG.1       -  .5          56.8         56.3
14        -  .4            105.3         104.9       - .6           59.0         58.4
15        -  .5            110.2         109.7       -  .7          61.4         60.7
16        -  .5            115.2         114.7       - .7           63.9         63.2
17        -  .6            120.3         119.6       -  .8          65.8         65.0
18        -  .6            125.3         124.7       -  .8          67.8         67.0
19        -  .7            130.4         129.7       -  .9          69.3         68.9
1/ Increased by 28Z plus 10% physical    i grr.
EwBase bemfits reuced to reflect decline in 7Zmisin traffic and traffic growth asswe.d 4-1/2%
p.a. instead of 6% p.a.
flL' Feasibility Study 107% Rewised 64%
Note. This section lebgth does not correspond exactly with sectin inclled in project.



- 89 -
Anram IV-1
P*ge 3 of 6
2. SectLi VI - TADM  Highway
FeasibiLty Study
ECuaxrnLc DmiefltlQ,st streams                               Rewsed
Savirgs in                Increase In 1/
Increase in        Vebicle        Total        Road                         Net
Road Mdk[tentince    Speratiag EconIc          aIntenrio    Sbvings In 2/ EAunidt-
Year        Costs              Costs  Bv iefits          Cbsts          VW_          B fns
1         - 10.8                            -10.8       -15.2              0          -15.2
2         +   .2               3.5            3.8       +  .3             2.7           3.0
3         +   .2               4.0            4.2       +  .3             3.0           3.3
4         +   .2               4.6            4.8       +  .3             3.3           3.6
5         -  2.6               5.2            2.5       - 3.4             3.7           0.3
6         -   .6               5.8            5.2       - 0.8             4.1           3.3
7         -   .;               6.5            5.9       - 0.8             4.4           3.6
8         -   .7               7.4            6.6       - 0.9             4.9           4.0
9         -   .7               8.3            7.5       - 0.9             5.3           4.4
10         -   .8              9.3            8.4        - 1.0            5.8            4.8
11         -   .9              10.4            9.5       - 1.1            6.3            5.2
12         -   .9              11.6           10.6       - 1.2            6.9            5.7
13         -  7.6              12.8            5.2       - 9.8            7.5          - 2.3
14         -   0              20.8            20.8       - 0.1            11.0          10.9
15         -   0              22.0            22.0       - 0.1            11.4          11.3
16         -   0              23.3            23.2       - 0.1            12.2          12.1
17         -   0              24.6           24.5        - 0.1            12.7          12.6
18         -   .1             26.0            1J.9       - 0.1            13.2          13.1
19         -   .1             27.4           27.3        - 0.1            13.7          13.6
1/ in ase/d by 28% phs 10%        a.ci.
2, Baee benefits reduced to reflect decline in Zatdan traffic and traffic growuth assumed 4-1/2%
p.a. *irtead of 6Z p.a.
EFRL Feasibility Study 45% Revised 23%.



-90-
Annex IV- 1
Page 4 of 6
3.  Gravel Road Rehabilitation Program
(TSh millions)
Costs              Benefits
Road                   Year 1    Year 2            Year 11
1. Horogoro-Tanga                    18.5      8.2 increasing to 10.2
2. Geita-Mwanza (Kagera Brd.)         9.9      2.9                 3.6
3.T Singida-Tabora Brd.              37.8      9.3      -         14.2
4. Geita-Usagara                     30.8      6.8                 8.6
5. Sbinyanga-Mwanza Brd.             17.7      3.9      i          4.9
6. Bibaramulo-Kagera (Mwanza Brd.)   28.8      6.0                 7.6
7. Babsti-Arusba (Dodoma Brd.)       12.8      2.5                 3.3
8. Dodona-Singida                    29.7       3.6     -          5.6
9. Tabora-Nzega                      39.2      4.8      -          6.8
10. Babati-Singida/Arusha Border      45.0      5.2                 7.0



91 -
Annex IV-1
Page 5 of 6
B. Vehicle Operating Costs
1. 7-Ton Truck in Intraregional Traffic
(Applies to Mwanza Region)
a)  Assumptions
Life of Vehicle                           8 years
Life of tires                              18,000 km
Annual running km                         36,000 km
Cost of tires, etc. - official price      6,600 Sh, unofficial 1-7,000 Sh
Fuel cost - official price                9.5 Shbl., unofficial 19 Sh/1
Cost of truck (incl. taxes & duties)      630,000 Sh
Fuel consumption                          0.4 1/km
Cost of oil and lubricants                5% of fuel cost
Repair and maintenance - official price  2 Sh/km, unofficial 4 Sh/km
Insurance, road tax, TLA                  25,000 Sh/year
Annual salaries of crew                   35,OCO Sh
Average load factor                       0.6
Overhead costs                            10% of total cost p.a.
b) Variable costs per km
Official prices Unofficial prices
Fuel                                       3.8               7.6
Tires                                      2.2               5.7
Oil, lubricants                            0.2               0.4
Repairs and maintenance                    2.0               4.0
Total                                    8.2              17.7
c) Fixed costs per annum
Salaries, etc.                            35,000
Insurance                                 25,000
Annuity                                  140,000
Total                                  200,000
per km                                   5.60
d)  Total cost per km including overheads
Official prices      1.10(8.2+5.6) = 15.2
Unofficial prices   0.1(8.2+5.6)f 17.7+5.6 = 24.7
e) Rate required to cover average cost at average load factor
Official prices      15.2  = 3.60
7x0.6
Unofficial prices   24.7  = 5.9
7x0.6



-92-
Annex IV-1
Page 6 of 6
2. 25-Ton Truck-Trailer Combination
(in Interregional Traffic)
a) Assumptions
Life of Vehicle                           5 years
Life of tires                             10,000 km
Annual running km                         50,000 km
Cost of tires, etc. - official price      6,600 Sh, unofficial 17,000 Sh
Fuel cost - official price                9.5 Shl/., unofficial 19 Sh/I
Fuel consumption                          0.8 1/km
Cost of truck and trailer
(ncl. taxes & duties)                  1,550,000 Sh
Cost of oil and lubricants                5% of fuel cost
Cost of repair and maintenance           Offic. price 2.50 Sh/km,
unoffic. price 5 Sh/km
Annual salaries of crew                   40,000 Sh
Insurance, road tax, TLA                 40,000 Sh/year
Average load factor                       0.70
Overhead costs                            1OZ of total cost p.a.
b)  Variable costs per km
Official prices Unofficial prices
Fuel                                       7.6             15.2
Tires                                      5.1             13.2
Oil, lubricants                            0.4              0.8
Repairs and maintenance                    2.5              5.0
Total                                   15.6             34.2
c)  Fixed costs per annum
Salaries, etc.                           40,000
Insurance                                40,000
Annuity                                 460,000
Total                                 540,000
per km                                  i0.8
d)  Total cost per km including overheads
Official prices     1.10(15.6+10.8) = 29.0
Unofficial prices   0.1(15.6+10.8)+34.2+10.8 = 47.0
e)  Rate required to cover average cost at average load factor
Official prices     29.0  - 1.70
0x7x25
Unofficial prices   47.0  = 2.70
0x7x25



I  I    
1t~i IiKW~ I___
i   mi 
ia~~~ VII L4Lg II IML
t Smm
:)~~~~~~~~ l~V M    I 
lll MESaSEMESM |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



TANZANIA
SIXIH HIGHWAY (REHABILITATION) PROJECT
OrganIzatlon of the National Conutructlon Council
CIEI
1egs  Ssoetav    1Wt~g  ftaM
& 10~ir                      Aiitbn                               Dmkpwt                        & ttbfIn                      MIMmi
-                            --                                   r Dtot                           -                             -
Lo~~~ Cw.hucta            lo& Et
otion      CCAOCO           $.eIlnShoctIon                               Soct                        Simre.tIm    |    Section       S    ectlm       
1~i k1                                                        - 1  - 
(bi,1   IRo                                                  (bJU1 Icn"lC()                            Iu     I
Souce  tu o Cmfuctton Cojrc. A" 1M                                                                                                                         Wol sol*-270J3
CUlRT 2



TANZANIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY (REHADIUtATION) PROJICt
OrwnIzaton of Minblrh d Education
H 3H3~IA~
=rm ~ ~ ~ ~~a
0"%*NEW OF
CFDI   ElXr1A0N ,          ...       - .,
I~1jATIC  ClLcCAl
1~~~~~~~
CTM    aIEM OF
EDUWIClal   _    _          nz N"~~ChTO IWE
OEPAR                       DEP~~~ONALTAN OFIA1E  l                EM~Ed C       ~     N4
MMOF    EPARKWOF        TECWC4 EMADO        O1GPARI O~CFlC     WA0I DJCAFCt       WARMhIt gIOI
ROAM D"TO       CNDWE"               CO~ORD"U           rocfcmm           MA EUAON         A"tuAr
9ouNrv conhc Orev
SOeM WIshty d    ,ducab A  196&
LK4LT 3



TANZANL4k
SIXTH HIGRWAY (RNABUTAION) PROJECT
Oranizalon o Fte. N oall Contucon Councl
hamf                              Ccnrvoctm I                                  Raeurc &                          OWm~ .                                    I
& !Iq.                            AbCof cn                                   O     it                           I   m
|~ ~~~~~~a c Fortc)| |      n)                                                                                      l|                 L
9   Cctal~Cwxrcts                                                                   CON14
Caou= Nih)                                                                                                SiCm SaclCan                       FAivAmsi9I            S
t.aw~~~~rg Lvii  ha~~~~~~w~~  ~~yLht 



!         ~~~'-V     T     A       Tcr  K,,'                                                                                                   T   oiON &  o Noryuh'
R w A N D A 9tr  E ST ,: /                                                \   MARA   3s     
B U R U N D 14                                              N                                            , _
j  <;}      \Bkomb3 SF4NY   N                                               -iJ Muv 
)                  ~~~~N- nb 2ve,
. P Xulu _ - 1 \ ;> \ : t 1 [ ~~~~~~~SINGIDA; }re;^Ml 
ABRA |1e-wS_;
; >o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'                                                  4Aw M. -- ,- >,oX  ( 
|   \   \  /  -  - 2 > mobom ! i t D XC MS. >-A
Z  A  I R  E                    J                                                                       'u) ;,- I(  A    iRahenge
1 8              \  ~~~~SU.UA8A%1ANGt Zm  , '-NG                                                                                      z >
_._ _ t; ff / -g c , - ,/ Iol nBEYA
ro Mmvuge                   To tusak              -       N {'                                                         - v 
To \K?sog
Z A M  B I A                                         Toloug                   
O     *0     E0    120   ISO    160  KILiOmETERS                                   ,         .--       SN A_
0    20   40   60   B0  100   WMLES                               MALAWI                                                                 t ,.   Tunour
/                  wbombc J~~a~b
32Xr|-                                                                z 



-________________________________________________________________                                             IBRD 19091R1
:-::--. Kisi                 I  0                 ToNakui                       j_.- N;
3r        NAROB                                                     ,                       0 
6 os    t   \   ;IROBI  .                                 ,-'       '    KENYA
MARA                                                                                      RWANDA._;
*        KEK  E  NYA                 -  .                     - - S -
TANZANIA
J;-                                                                                    /.'Te1sNron <s!\ o,Isof1
- l ari  H i  f ZAMBIA                -
N             _--J-\ J rOMdi .iu5     -LI                                                               MOHAMBIOUE
6 - fJ i /.... .                        Srba om;@l  ~et  
N> %   -, /gugu  A:Ri?J11A A                                                                        TANZANIA
'"'i)\r   t5C  w-J   >    1 '  11sx Mulcumba                    .     _/'             SIXTH   HIGHWAY
V  j->                            -. I[A' Mukumbex  </ %X     REHABILITATION) PROJECT
SINGIDA    ~     ^_                        oG x   
SINGI DA1  ~~~~~~-/'>    I                    (2)a ~~~~~-A ~SECTIONS OF TANZAM HIGHWAY
1      -<      '~                             -KTO BE REHABIUTATED UNDER PROJECT
I~~~~~  i\    I                                              -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEASIBILITY STUDtES AND
,,I1 l        \  !  I   t ,i                          _                     _ISJAND      DETAILED ENGINEERING UNDER
-~~~~~  \ /  a                        /       / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJE-CT
0 M                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONSMXTRUT  UNDER PREVOIOS &ANK
'1   SiN9I1Y    jC M                                                                   GROIANCED HIGHWAY PROJECTS
SI" IqA,\    113DM  '                                                                   EXlnNG
PAVED ROADS
/         ,>J \   8          +,/    /    \         tholin#         7                --   TRUNK ROADS (GRAVEL)
E        t         2 p s / \ _ _ >OTHER ROADS (GRAVEL AND EARTH)
x.             /o -; - - t     ff    -       DAR                             ES SAAM       TRACKS
x ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---'-RAILROADS
_/r                                           _                                             f ts { 5si / \ + || j { _ | LAKE SERVICES I FERRIES)
-R II N i G    M    a                                                                SCHEDULED SERVICE AIRPORTS
'         ST                 S I  INTERNATIONAL AIRPOlrTs
RIVERS
a   SELECTED TOWNS            8
wr -- X   --;  ^,O0O  jP   > ~  '    MAD          e   REGION HEADQUARTERS
S   NATIONAL CAPITALS
(K>sI  />4>  3                          {          ' ) j z {f <REGION BOUNDARIES
Ki6w oie         ---  INTEP%ATIONAL BOUNDAIES
-'-"3'--/                             tv  j   ,t   j  .                        INDIAN
l   \  I -   -   I-                                 OCEA Nx
; \\,  g     r  ,,LINDI
r              I                                         - NGEA_
; ,= !/   F   '   's RUVU  A      --               ---.             _-   '---- -
riQ                                         b ud.    \                  ,-a--
fob   I                j                                                                       _Jd___
- Zr .  _   3, ._ru__  ~~~~M 0 Z A M B I Q U E .',--
APRIL 1986-






