Doc_mt of
The World Bank
]FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-4202-BD
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP1IENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 52.3 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
December 17, 1985
MT  dc u   a U.&dd dkbWIem _ld =  bemo by ndplemt amly In he wezfuumue of 
t elsr lil dafi  lb "Mm gylt eaw  be ddowd wi_lt WV-  Bk _obalion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a
basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as intervention
currency. On November 25, 1985 the official exchange rate was set at
Tk 30.44 buying and Tk 30.59 selling per US dollar.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bbl     =   Barrel (= 0.159 cubic meters)
kW      =   Kilowatt (= 1.341 horsepower)
MW      =   Megawatt (thousand kilowatts)
MVA     =   Megavolt-ampere (thousand kilovolt amperes)
kWh     =   Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kilocalories)
CWh     =   Gigawatt hour (million kilowatt hours)
kV      =   Kilovolt (thousand volts)
km      =   Kilometer (0.6214 mile)
TCF         Trillion cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     -   Asian Development Bank
BPDB    -   Bangladesh Power Development Board
CT      -   Gas Turbines
LRMC    -   Long-run Marginal Cost
REB     -   Rural Electrification Board
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
.July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrover:              People's Reoublic of Bangladesh
Beneficiary:            Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB)
Amount:                 SDR 52.3 million (US$56.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard
Relendinu  Terms:       The proceeds of the credit would be onlent to the
Bangladesh Power Developuei=t Board (BPDB) at a rate of
11.5Z per annum for a period of 20 years, including a
grace period of five years. BPDB would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The project's main objectives would be to expand and
reinforce the transmission and distribution system of
BPDB to meet forecast demand at least cost; to stabi-
lize system voltage; to increase system reliability;
to reduce power losses in transmission and
distribution; and to strengthen BPDB's financial
operations. The project would comprise erection of
582 km (kilometers) of 132-kV (kilovolt) lines; exten-
sion of sixteen 132-kV substations; extension of
low-voltage distribution networks in fourteen towns;
installation of meters and metering equipment; and
technical assistance to the BPDB.
Risks:                 The project is straightforward, and project risks are
limited. A possible cause of slippage would be delays
in procurement. Appointment of consultants to assist
BPDB in preparing designs and bidding documents and
in construction supervision would minimize this risk.
BPDB's financial performance needs to be improved and
the excessive system losses reduced. Without improve-
ments in these areas the planned expansion of the
power network and the institution building objectives
of the project would be placed at risk. In order to
address these issues, the project would include (i) a
program to reduce system losses, both on an interim
and longer term basis, and (ii) the establisbment of
specific short-term financial goals for BPDB and the
development of longer term performance goals based on
a long-run marginal cost based tariff study.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recpiets only in the pero=nce of !
thei offcal duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Proiect Cost:
ForeiRn       Local         Total
---------(US$ million)--
132-kV Lines                    5.6          3.4           9.0
132-kV Substations              7.9          5.6          13.5
Low-Voltage Distribution
Network                     16.2          6.1         22.3
Meters and Metering Equipment  1.7           0.3           2.0
Technical Assistance            4.8          0.8           5.6
Total Base Cost             36.2         16.2          52.4
Pbysical Contingencies           3.6         1.6           5.2
Price Contingencies              8.0         6.0          14.0
Total Proiect Cost          47.8         23.8         71.6
Interest During Constructiou    -           11.3         11.3
Total Financing Required   47.8          35.1          82.9
1/ Includes taxes and duties of US$4.2 million equivalent.
Financinf Plan:
Foreizn       Local         Total
(US$ million)
IDA                           44.8         11.2         56.0
UNDP                           3.0           -            3.0
BPDB                            -          12.5          12.5
Government                                 11.4          11.4
47.8        35.1          82.9
-==
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY                  FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
- - -     (US$ million)- 
Annual                   1.1    7.4   14.4   16.9   11.9    4.3
Cumulative               1.1    8.5   22.9   39.8   51.7   56.0
Economic Rate
of Return:  12.7%
Staff Appraisal   Bangladesh:  Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Report:  Report No. 5510, dated December 10, 1985.
Map:  IBRD 18660



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT ANI) RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 52.3 mil-
lion (US$56.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Power Transmission and Distribution Project. The Government of Bangladesh
would onlend the proceeds of the credit to the Bangladesh Power Development
Board (BPDB) for a period of 20 year:, including a grace period of five
years, at a rate of 11.5Z per annum. BPDB would bear the foreign exchange
risk. UNDP would provide parallel financing in the form of a grant of US$3.0
million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic and Social
Development Prospects," (Report No. 5409-BD, dated April 2, 1985) has been
distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with a very high population density and
widespread poverty (annual income per capita is about US$130). The economy,
dominated by agriculture, rpmains highly vulnerable to disruption by both
natural and external factors. Although considerable progress has been made
in terms of increased flood control, and extending the availability of
irrigation and other inputs, foodgrain production remains heavily dependent
on weather conditions and falls short of domestic requirements. To meet
minimum needs, the Government has to import foodgrains financed by aid or
from its own resources. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability also
make it necessary to maintain public foodgrain stocks, the financing of which
adds to the problems of fiscal management.
4.      The economy is also characterized by low savings, which reflect the
low level of incomes, and by a large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a negligible part of investment (which has
averaged about 16% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in recent years). Export
earnings cover less than 30% of the import bill, with raw jute and jute goods
accounting for about 60% of merchandise exports. The resource gap of about
1X of GDP is financed by workers' remittances, which rose rapidly to more
than 5Z of CDP in FY83, before declining significantly during the past two



-2-
years, and by foreign assistance equivalent to about 10% of GDP per annum.
The capacity to finance imports can be sharply affected by external factors
that are beyond the control of the Government; the e?fect of such adverse
factors on the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of budgetary
revenues on import duties and sales taxes, which together account for about
60% of tax revenues.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      In the late 1970s. Bangladesh enjoyed a period of political stability
and economic consolidation and was able to plan for Longer-term development.
GDP growth of nearly 6% per annum from FY75 to FY80 was accompanied by rising
public investment, financed by a substantial real increase in aid
disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and external events after
FY80 disrupted the momentum of development. Between FY80 and FY82, the
external terms of trade for Bangladesh fell by 30%, due to decli_ing prices
for jute and jute products, as well as to increases in import prices.
External aid flows, which had been rising steadily up to FY80, declined in
FY81 and in FY82 barely recovered to their FY80 level. Foreign exchange
reserves declined to about US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) by end-FY82. The deterioration in the terms of trade and stagnation
of aid receipts I.n real terms had an adverse impact on public finances and
forced the Government to impose severe cuts in domestic public investment in
FY81 and FY82. At the same time, the rate of growth in GDP decreased from
about 6% in FY81 to 1.4% in FY82, largely due to a decline in food crop
production following a prolonged drought during FY82.
6.      In response to these adverse developments, the Government took a
series of measures designed to stabilize the economy. In the FY83 Budget,
growth of public expenditure was tightly restrained, new tax measures were
introduced and a series of pricing adjustments were made to reduce subsidies
and improve the financial performance of public sector enterprises and
utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing, and subsidy-reduction measures
amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. In FY83, the Government also
announced its New Industrial Policy designed to improve the efficiency of
public sector enterprises and provide an improved policy environment for the
private sector. More than 100 public sector enterprises were subsequently
denationalized, investment sanctioning procedures were streamlined and many
industries were freed from investment sanctions. Imports were liberalized by
increasing access to imports through a secondary exchange market and by
eliminating some quantitative restrictions. By the end of FY83, the balance
of payments position had improved considerably, due to a recovery in the
terms of trade, an upsurge in workers' remittances, higher aid inflows, as
well as increasing exports stimulated by a substantial depreciation in the
exchange rate. However, the reduction in the current account deficit, which
fell from 14.5% to 10.4% of GDP, was also due to the depressed level of
imports resuLting from a continued slow rate of GDP growth, which recovered
to only about 3% in FY83. While more favorable weather conditions and
increased inputs Led to a 3-4% growth in agriculture, most of the non-
agricultural sectors remained depressed; value added in the manufacturing
sector actually declined by 1-2%.



-.3-
7.      Economic performance in FY84 and FY85 was seriously affected by a
series of damaging floods during 1984 whose intensity was comparable to the
devastating floods of 1974. Successive rice crops were hit causing neL
foodgrain losses of over 0.5 million tons. Due to investments in more dis-
persed food storage facilities, the improved efficiency of the Public Food
Distribution System, and the Government's large-scale foodgrain procurements
abroad, a famine was averted. Even though the immediate foad crisis has
passed, the impact of the floods is reflected in lower agricultural growch
rates of around 2.4% in FY84 and 3.0% in FY85. The cyclone and tidal bore
disaster in May 1985 caused extensive loss of life and property along the
southern coast and islands of Bangladesh; the effect on food production was,
however, limited, although loss of agricultural livestock was considerable.
8.      In the nonagricultural sectors there was in FY84 a slow, but
gradually acceLerating, recovery. Industry, in particular, rebounded sharply
from the weak performance of the preceding year. This was due to a combina-
tion of factors including further Liberalization and privatization measures
following the promuLgation of the Government's New Industrial Policy; easier
access to imports during a period of less restricted foreign exchange
resources; increased non-traditional industrial exports (especially ready-
made garments); and increased demand generated by a sharp expansion of
private credit (paragraph 11). Therefore, despite the severe setbacks in
agriculture, the improvements in industry still led to a GDP growth of around
3.5% for FY84. In FY85, preliminary Government estimates would suggest that
industrial growth was only about 3%; on the other hand, the recovery of
growth in the trade and transport sectors, helped maintain the rate of growth
in F85 at about the FY84 level.
9.      Following the major domestic revenue effort made in Fv83, the
Government sought to consolidate that effort in its FY84 and FY85 Budgets,
rather than to embark on major new initiatives. Further modest tax and
pricing adjustments were made to increase recurrent revenues, but total
revenues for FY84 were well short of the budget target as dutiable imports
and aid disbursements fell considerably below expectation. In FY85, tax
revenues benefited from higher imports. A substantial budget deficit was
avoided in FY84 by a significant shortfall in development expenditures com-
pared with the budget estimate; a similar shortfall in the Annual Development
Programme expenditures occurred during FY85. Such shortfalls arise partly
from overly ambitious development expenditure targets, but are also
attributable to lower than expected disbursements of project aid as a result
of implementation constraints.
10.     In its FY86 budget, the Government took further domestic resource
mobilization measures which, together with additional revenue measures intro-
duced later in the fiscal year, are estimated to yield in excess of Tk 2
billion in FY86, equivalent to 0.4% of GDP. As a result, the budget revenue
to GDP ratio is projected to rise from 8.9% in FY85 to 9.5% in FY86. In
addition the Government has enacted a series of significant pricing



-4-
adjustments, including increases in natural gas prices averaging 20X, in the
prices of fertilizer averaging 9%, and in power rates averaging 18Z. The
Government also announced its intention to reduce food subsidies by Tk 600
million in FY86.
11.     During 1983 and 1984, the Government permitted a rapid expansion in
domestic credit in an effort to stimulate economic recovery and, by means of
liberal rural credit, to mitigate the effects of the 1984 floods. Domestic
prices have, nevertheless, remained relatively stable, although the rate of
inflation increased from about 12% in FY84 to about 13Z in FY85. In January
1985, the Government took a series of strong measures to limit the growth of
liquidity, ir.cluding increases in interest rates and quantitative restric-
tions on the growth of domestic credit. These measures were instrumental in
moderating significantly the growth of credit during the second half of FY85.
From December 1984 to June 1985, the annual rate of private credit expansion
slowed to 12% compared with 40% in FY85 and 60% in FY84. The Bangladesh Bank
has successfully continued to restrain domestic credit expansion in FY86.
12.     The balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves position
improved during FY84. Export earnings rose by 201, due to higher interna-
tional prices for jute, jute products, and tea, as well as a major boost in
non-traditional exports, while imports remained close to the FY83 level since
economic recovery was slower than anticipated and aid-financed imports were
depressed by delays in project implementation. Even though workers' remit-
tances began to decline in the second half of the fiscal year, gross foreign
exchange reserves in March 1984 reached a peak of US$558 million, equivalent
to about 3 months' imports. However, during FY85 there was a deterioration
in the balance of payments. Part of the growing pressure on the balance of
payments arose from the additional foodgrain imports necessitated by the
severe 1984 floods. Non-food imports also increased significantly, partly as
a result of the continued recovery in the non-agricuLtural sectors stimulated
by the rapid expansion in domestic credit. Workers' remittances also
declined further and although exports increased somewhat over FY84 Levels,
external reserves fell by about US$141 million in FY85. The decline in
reserves would have been even more marked had not a substantial portion
(about US$190 million) of foodgrain imports been purchased on credit.
13.     Bangladesh's balance of payments will be under very considerable
pressure during FY86 and FY87. Merchandise export earnings are unlikely to
exceed significantly the FY85 level in nominal terms. Even significant gains
in non-traditional exports, in particular garments, as well as in leather are
estimated to no more than offset the expected losses in earnings from export
of jute and jute products due to the sharp decline in international price.
The inflow of workers' remittances is also unlikely to recover fully to their
former levels, although some increase is expected in FY85 over FY84 levels.
The situation will be further aggravated by the substantial loan repayments
falling due during FY86 and FY87 for recent purchases of foodgrain imports on
deferred terms. Bangladesh also has substantial repurchase obligations due
to the IMF in FY86 and FY87. The critical state of the country's external



-5--
payments situation is demonstrated by the further decline of official gross
reserves during the first quarter of FY86 to only $265 million, or about 1.3
months of import requirements, as of end-September 1985.
14.     In view of the deterioration in the-'balance of payments situation in
FY85 and the unfavorable outlook for the next two years, the Government has
entered into a Standby Arrangement with the IMF in an amount of SDRs 180
million covering the period December 1985 to June 1987. The stabilization
program to be supported by the IMF Standby Arrangement focusses on mobilizing
additional domestic resources, restrained monetary and credit policies and,
through the pursuit of flexibLe exchange rate policies. strengthening the
competitiveness of the traded goods sector.
External Debt
15.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium and long-term debts has not been a
major problem. Nonetheless, the burden of servicing this concessional debt
is rising steadily as debts incurred in the first years after independence
are increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on exter-
nal public medium and long-term debt are expected to rise from about 13X of
export earnings (goods, services, and workers' remittances) in FY84 to 14X in
FY85 and a peak of 18% in FY87, gradually declining thereafter.  However,
when obligations to the IHF are included, the debt service ratio in FY85 was
about 24%, and is estimated to stay at about this level during FY86 and FY87.
The debt service ratio is forecast to decline thereafter, as food debts are
repaid, to about 17% by FY90. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt
servicing obligations will remain modest over this period, rising from 8.5%
in FY84 to 8.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding
and disbursed is projected to increase from about 30% in FY84 to about 35% in
FY86.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
16.     The Government is completing preparation of its Third Five Year
Development Plan which will cover the period FY86-90. In the meantime, the
Government's development strategy continues to be largely based on the
priorities outlined in the Second Five Year Plan (FY81-85). The priority
development objectives are: (a) reducing population growth from the present
rate of 2.6% per annum; (b) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency;
(c) eliminating mass illiteracy; and (d) accelerating domestic energy
development. With appropriate producer incentives, adequate resources to
provide needed inputs to farmers, and an expanded role for the private sector
in the provision and servicing of modern agricultural implements and inputs,
foodgrain self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade. Given
Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate (74%), the emphasis on primary education is
well founded; under the Second Plan the objective of achieving universal
primary education was adopted. Prospects for achieving the objectives of
educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability would be improved



-6-
by success in reducing the population growth rate; this will require more
determined efforts than hitherto. The Government is taking steps to improve
its family planning and health services at the field level, including
increasing the number of field workers and providing them with more intensive
training and supervision. The Government also intends to expand support to
maternal and child health services.
17.     Early development of the country's energy resources, particularly
natural gas, is very important since petroleum imports at present absorb
about two-thirds of merchandise export earnings. The Government is already
implementing sizable investments to augment the supply of gas to meet growing
demand from the power and fertiLizer sectors. The implementation of
appropriate energy conservation measures and the setting of energy prices at
economically efficient Levels will also be critical to the success of the
energy development program.
18.     There is an urgent need to address the growing problems of rural
poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural popuLation is function-
ally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated significantly
since the 1970s, with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force finding
gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not suffice to
resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large projected
growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously, therefore,
to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry and non-
foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- especially rural
small-scale and cottage industries - so that incomes generated in one sub-
sector will generate effective demand for the outptut of others.
19.     As noted above, the Government's New Industrial Policy has given a
greater role to the private sector in industrial development, increased the
incentives for export industries. and liberalized the import regime.
However, there remains an urgent need to strengthen the development finance
institutions, whose financial structure has been undermined by an increasing
problem of debt arrears, and to rationalize industrial incentives. The
Government is now examining the future role of the development finance
institutions in the light of recent consultants' studies. An ongoing program
of IDA-financed studies is expected to lead to a program of action for the
rationalization of a broad range of trade and industrial policies.
20.     In the Third Five Year Development Plan, the Government will need to
ensure that the size of the future public investment program is set at ,
level consistent with a realistic assessment of prospective external and
domestic financial resources. As external assistance will continue to be
severely constrained, there is a clear need for a sustained and intensive
domestic resource mobilization effort to raise tax revenues, increase the
level of cost recovery, reduce subsidies, and improve the financial perfor-
mance of public enterprises. In the medium term, the tax base will have to
be broadened to reduce its present dependence on import duties, thereby
improving the elasticity of the tax system.



- 7-
21.     Realization of the Government's development objectives will also
require significant improvements in development administration. There is
need to strengthen project implementation, streamline administrative
procedures, and improve decision-making processes. Recognizing that local
government bodies can play an effective role in the development effort, the
Government has decided to decentralize a number of planning and administra-
tive functions zo the upgraded Upazila (Sub-District) Level. The impLementa-
tion and impact of this policy will need to be closely monitoreJ.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
22.     Cumulative Bank Group commitments to Bangladesh total USS3,382.92
million. This figure includes reactivation of eleven credits (US$154.41
million) made to Pakistan before 1971 and a consolidation loan (US$54.90
million) and a consolidation credit (US$37.45 million) approved in 1975 to
cover liabilities arising from projects completed prior to independence. In
addition to these, the Bank has approved 90 new credits since Bangladesh
became a member in 1972. In terms of total commitments, approximately 24%
of IDA lending has been fer agriculture, irrigation and rural development;
llX for industry; 13Z for power and energy; 9% for transportation and
telecommunications; 9Z for education and technical assistance; 2Z for urban
infrastructure; 2% for population control; and 30% for imports program
support. Apart from increased emphasis on energy development, the composi-
tion of IDA lending over the next several years is not expected to change
markedly. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of IFC and five
investments have been approved to date.
23.     IDA's country assistance strategy is designed to support the
Government's priority development objectives set out in the Second Five Year
Plan and summarized in paragraph 16 above.  IDA's lending has emphasized
agriculture, with particular importance attached to increasing food produc-
tion through augmenting the supply of essential inputs such as irrigation
equipment, fertilizer, and improved seeds, the development of extension
services, research programs, and rural cooperatives, the provision of
agricultural credit, and the promotion of input and output pricing policies
that allow adequate incentives to farmers to increase production. IDA has
also supported the Government's efforts to encourage greater private sector
participation in the supply and distribution of agricultural inputs. IDA's
lending program will place increasing emphasis on agricultural diversifica-
tion through increased production of fish and forestry products.
24.     IDA's lending for power and gas investments is designed to expand the
use of natural gas in substitution for imported oil, promote conservation
measures and more efficient energy use, and encourage further gas and oil
exploration. IDA is also financing projects to expand the country's rural
electrification system and power generation and transmission capabilities.
Recognizing the critical shortages in traditional fuels, IDA is financing
investments in forestry to increase the supply of fuelwood.



-8-
25.     In the education sector, IDA's lending strategy focuses on two
areas -- primary education and skills development. Lending for primary
education supports the national goals of achieving universal primary educa-
tion and reducing illiteracy, expanding access to education, and upgrading
quality. Projects for vocational and technical education promote the train-
ing of craftsmen, technicians, and engineers.
26.     In order to alleviate the severe economic and social pressures
created by the extremely high population density and the continuing popula-
tion increase, IDA, together with other donors, is assisting the Government
in implementing an accelerated family planning program. With Bangladesh's
urban population expected to increase from about 16-18 million in 1985 to
between 35-40 million by the year 2000, future IDA activities will also help
the Government address the problem of providing low-cost shelter and
infrastructure services to the urban poor; IDA is already financing water and
sanitation improvements in Chittagong and Dhaka.
27.     To achieve a higher and sustained level of growth, provide productive
employment for a rapidly growing work force, and improve the country's exter-
naL trade and payments position on a sustained basis, industry will need to
play a more pivotal role in the economy. IDA's lending program seeks to
assist the Government in: (a) increasing efficiency in public sector
enterprises; (b) reforming trade, industrial, and financial policies;
Cc) strengthening existing financial institutions; (d) establishing export
development programs; and (e) promoting rural and small-scale industries.
In addition to assistance under program credits (paragraph 29), IDA has
supported projects to increase fertilizer production, rehabilitate the jute
and textile industries, strengthen the development finance institutions, and
promote small-scale industries.
28.     Because of the importance of river transport in this deltaic country,
in the transport sector, IDA has focused on the development of the inland
water transport system. The road network in Bangladesh is extensive, but the
roads are in poor condition and inadequately maintained. IDA's future lend-
ing program will concentrate primarily on maintaining and upgrading existing
roads.
29.     Because of the urgent need for sustained transfer of substantial
financial resources, the assistance strategy for Bangladesh provides a sig-
nificant proportion of annual lending in the form of program credits. In
addition to providing much-needed foreign exchange and local counterpart
financial support, annual program credits have provided a useful vehicle for
addressing a wide range of sectoral and macro-economic issues. Due to
Bangladesh's savings/investment gap, IDA credits for project financing con-
tinue to cover all foreign exchange costs and a significant portion of local
currency expenditures. Given the severe limits on external concessionary
assistance, IDA has emphasized the need for Government to mobilize more
domestic financial resources and to utilize these resources more efficiently.



-9-
IDA is promoting Government policies to set public utility prices at economi-
cally efficient levels, to mobilize domestic financial resources, and to
improve the efficiency of public sector institutions.
30.      Project implementation is hampered not only by a shortage of domes-
tic financial resources, but also by weak development institutions, limited
managerial capacity, and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. IDA, in con-
sultation with other donors, is engaged in a continuing dialogue with the
Government on ways to improve project implementation. In support of broader
institutional reform, IDA is: (a) providing technical assistance for project
preparation and implementation; (b) financing projects to train civil ser-
vants and other managerial and technical personnel; and (c) encouraging the
Government to introduce administrative reforms and improve staff salaries and
incentives. Despite progress in implementing reforms, which include
administrative reorganization and improvements in financial planning and
budgetary procedures, adequate institutional capabilities can be achieved
only over the long term.
31.     IDA chairs the annual Bangladesh Aid Group meeting which provides a
forum for aid donor consultation and IDA's Resident Representative chairs
regularly scheduled donor meetings in Dhaka to exchange views on policy
issues, proiect implementation, and aid coordination.
PART III. ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Consumption
32.     In Bangladesh, per capita energy consumption, which is among the
lowest in the world, is estimated at about 90 kilograms (kg) of oil equiv-
alent annually. Traditional fuels, such as crop residues, animal dung, and
wood, supply about 60% of total energy requirements. Per capita consumption
of comercial energy is estimated at only 36 kg of oil equivalent annually.
In FY84, commercial energy consumption was about 3.4 million tons of oil
equivalent, of which natural gas accounted for 52%, petroleum for 37%,
hydropower for 6Z, and coal for 5Z. Although consumption of domestic natural
gas has been growing rapidly - at a rate of 13.5% per annum between 1975 and
1984 - and the share of imported fuel in total consumption has declined
significantly, fuel imports, which preempt about 60% of Bangladesh's export
earnings, still pose a major externaL payments problem.
Energy Resources and Energy Balance
33.     Natural gas is Bangladesh's principal commercially exploitable energy
resource. One offshore and twelve onshore gas fields have been discovered,
and seven fields are in production. All onshore gas fields are located east
of the Brahmaputra/Jamuna River. Gas-in-place is estimated at about 11
trillion cubic feet (TCF). Uncertainty regarding the level of existing
reserves makes it difficult for the Government to formulate a long-term



-10-
development strategy for the natural gas subsector. However, seismic surveys
of the major gas fields are being undertaken as a part of the IDA-financed
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1402-BD) in order to firm up
the reservoir structure maps, provide a basis for locating future wells to be
drilled, and assist in identifying gas-water contacts. Appraisal drilling
wilL be undertaken as part of the IDA financed Second Gas Development Project
(Credit 1586-BD).
34.     To date, no commercial reserves of oil have been discovered.  The
Petroleum Exploracion Promotion Project is supporting the Government's
efforts to attract international oil companies to undertake oil exploration
in the country. Under the project, modern seismic data are being acquired
and a hydrocarbon habitat study is being carried out, following which a
promotional campaign to encourage participation in exploration and investment
will be organized. In addition, the Government, with assistance from other
donors, is conducting seismic work covering most of the country's western
zone in order to identify promising petroleum and natural gas structures.
35.     Bangladesh's hydropower potential is limited because the country's
large rivers, the Ganges and the Brahmaputra/Jamuna, flow over a flat deLtaic
area. Hydropower potential is estimated to be about 1,500 gigawatt hours
per year (Gwh/year), of which 850 GWh/year have been developed. All existing
development is on the Karnafuli river at Kaptai, where the installed capacity
is 130 megawatts (KW). Planned developments will increase Kaptai's total
installed capacity to 330 MW and generating capability to about 1,050
GWh/year.
36.     Coal deposits in northwestern Bangladesh, at Jamalganj, are estimated
at 700 million tons. The deposits are at depths of 650-1,050 meters under
soft water-bearing strata, and their extraction would be uneconomic at
present. Peat deposits are known to exist in the Faridpur and Khulna
districts.
37.     Traditional fuels, supplying about 601 of total energy requirement,
play a crucial role in Bangladesh's energy sector. Wood is one of its major
renewable energy resources, but usage is believed to be in excess of sus-
tainable yield. It has been estimated that tree biomass, such as stem wood
and branches, contribute 50-60% of the energy used by households in rural
areas. Animal dung and agricultural residues supply the remaining energy
requirements to rural households.
Energy Development and IDA Assistance Strategy
38.     Because of the country's large petroleum import bill, improving the
critical balance of payments situation depends, in large measure, on develop-
ments in the energy sector. Therefore, energy development was designated a
"core priority" in the Second Five Year Plan, and about 19Z of total public
sector outlays have been earmarked for the energy sector, of which about 70%
were allocated to the power subsector and 30X to the hydrocarbon subsector.



-11-
It is anticipated that the energy sector will be accorded a similar priority
in the Third Five Year Plan (FY86-90) which is being finalized. In line with
this priority, the objectives of IDA's assistance over the medium term are to
encourage and support the Government's efforts to: (a) expand the production
and use of natural gas as a substitute for imported oil; (b) promote more
efficient energy use and conservation measures, including modifications to
the oil refinery and conversion to gas by oil-using industries; (c) set
energy prices at economically efficient levels; (d) study opportunities for
the development of gas-based export industries; (e) promote further gas/oil
expLoration, especially seismic studies; (f) explore and develop renewable
energy alternatives; and (g) formulate medium- and long-term investment
programs for the energy sector.
Power Subsector
39.     The principal institutions responsible for policy in the Tpower sub-
sector are: (i) the Planning Commission which is responsible for sanctioning
all development investment schemes, including those in the power subsector,
costing more than Tk 5 million, and (ii) the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources to which the power-generating, transmission and distribution
entities are accountable.
40.     The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), which was established
in 1972 as a statutory Government corporation, is responsible for the
generation, transmission, and distribution of electric power nationwide.
BPDB was the sole authority responsible for these functions until 1977, when
the Rural Electrification Board (REB) was created and assumed responsibility
for the distribution of electricity in rural areas through a system of rural
cooperatives (Palli Bidyut Samities). At present, all consumers of elec-
tricity are supplied directly by BPDB, except in those areas where new rural
electrification schemes have been completed by REB.
Existing Facilities
41.     Bangladesh is divided into eastern and western zones by the Ganges
and Brahmaputra/Jamuna River system. The power systems in the two zones were
isolated until the commissioning, in December 1982, of a 230-kV double cir-
cuit East-West interconnector (energized at 132-kV). In FY85, BPDB's total
firm generating capacity was 1010 MW. 1/ Firm capacity in the western zone
was 338 MW, all utilizing imported oil. In the eastern zone, firm capacity
was 672 MW, comprising 130 MW hydroelectric capacity, 537 MW natural gas-
fired capacity, and 5 MW dieseL-operated capacity. Total energy generated by
BPDB's power plants in FY85 was 4,665 GWh -- 4,207 GWh (90%) in the eastern
zone and 458 CWh (10%) in the western zone. In FY84, the average fuel cost
1/ In addition, some industries have their own generating capacity which
totals about 200 MW.



-12-
per kWh generated in the western zone was nearly Tk 1.50/kWh compared to only
Tk 0.15/kWh in the eastern zone. Commissioning of the east-west interconnec-
tor reduced total generating costs for the system by substituting natural
gas-fired generation in the east for oil-fired generation in the west.
Substantial east-west transfers (519 GWh and 144 MW)) took place in FY84.
42.     The major generating stations and Load centers are interconnected by
a 132-kV transmission grid (2,000 km) consisting of double and single-circuit
lines. There are also 167 km of 66-kV subtransmission lines. The distribu-
tion system consists of about 7.000 km of 33-kV lines and 21.000 km of 11-kV
and 400-volt lines. The 33-kV network functions as a bulk distribution
system to supply large consumers. Because of the lack of a 132-kV transmis-
sion grid in some remote areas, some 33-kV lines are very long, exceeding
100 km. The 400-volt network is suppLied from centrally located 11/04.kV
transformers and, consequently, the network is very extensive and often
overloaded.
43.     At the end of FY84, the total number of consumers supplied by BPDB
was about 725,000, of which about 467,000 were domestic consumers and about
214,000 were commercial consumers (including street lights). Another 237,000
consumers, of which about 215,000 were domestic, were supplied through REB.
Overall, an estimated 9Z of the population receives electricity supply.
BPDB's Development Program
44.     The government's strategy for accelerating the development of domes-
tic energy resources is to locate major generating stations in the eastern
zone, where natural gas can be used as the source of energy. This strategy
calls for commissioning about 1,050 MW of gas-fired generation and 100 MW of
hydropower generation over the next five years in the eastern zone, and
commissioning only 40 MW of oil-fired generation in the western zone. In
association with increased generation, it plans to develop efficient and
reliable transmission and distribution systems to evacuate the additional
power to both the eastern and western zones and to reduce system losses.
45.     Total installed generation capacity on BPDB's supply system is
expected to increase from 1,010 MW in 1985 to 2,345 MW in 1992. Projects
under construction or firmly planned in the eastern zone include extensions
at: Ashuganj (3x150 MW gas-fired steam units and 1x60 MW gas turbine (GT));
Chorasal (3x210 MW gas-fired steam units); Chittagong (2x28 MW GT);
Sidhirganj (80 MW GT); and Karnafuli hydropower station (4x50 MW).
Similarly, projects under construction or firmly planned in the western zone
for commissioning by end-1988 comprise 20 MW GT extensiors at both Saidpur
and Barisal. Financing has been secured for most of these projects and they
should be commissioned approximately as planned.
46.     BPDB's strategy of expanding natural gas-based generation capacity in
the eastern zone and transferring surplus energy to the western zone in order
to replace expensive oil-fired generation in that zone is sound. The



-13-
strategy calls for rapid increases in BPDB's investment program in FY86 and
FY87, and particularly the commissioning of the on-going Ashuganj and
Chorasal gas-fired projects. Slippage in completion of these plants would
have a severe impact on BPDB's expenditures on fuel and consequently on
foreign exchange expenditures on imports of petroleum products.
47.     For more efficient transmission of power, BPDB is planning the con-
version of the east-west interconnector to 230-kV operation in 1986-87, when
the necessary terminal substations are completed. BPDB is also considering
reinforcing the interconnection with another tie-line by about 1993 to
increase the system's capability to exchange power and to ensure system
security. Various reinforcements and extensions of the transmission grid are
under construction or planned for the next decade.
48.     Development of the distribution system has not kept pace with rapidLy
increasing demand, resulting in excessive system losses and voltage drops
far below the original design levels, especially in the 400-volt network
where most consumers receive supply at less than 85X of the nominal voltage.
To remedy such deficiencies, BPDB has initiated projects to improve its
distribution network.
49.     In view of the size of proposed investments in the power sub-sector
and their importance to the economy of Bangladesh, IDA plans to initiate a
special review of BPDB's investment program in FY86.  Furthermore, by July 31
of each year during execution of the proposed project, BPDB would review, in
consultation with IDA, its investment program, together with proposed financ-
ing arrangements, and make appropriate changes as would be agreed between the
Government, IDA, and BPDB.
External Assistance
50.     Numerous external donors are assisting Bangladesh's investments in
the energy sector. They include more than 20 donors, including bilateral
sources and multilateral agencies, such as ADB, [NDP, the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Fund, and the Islamic Development Bank.
Among them, ADB has been particularly active in efforts to improve BPDB's
efficiency, and has provided funds for: the preparation of two energy
studies (Bangladesh Energy Study, 1976 and BangLadesh Energy Planning
Project, 1985); introduction of an accounting system based on commercial
accounting principles; establishment of cooperative arrangements between BPDB
and the eLectric power utilities in Thailand; and development of a power
system master plan. IDA's future assistance to the institutional development
of BPDB under the proposed project would reinforce ADB's efforts in this
area.
51.     IDA's lending strategy for the power subsector is designed to assist
the Government to: (a) expand generating, transmission and distribution
capacity to meet forecast demand at least cost; (b) substitute gas based
generation for generation based on imported petroleum products; (c) improve



-14-
the reliability of electricity supply and the efficiency of power system
operations; (d) extend access to electricity supply in rural areas; and
te) strengthen the management and finance situation of BPDB and REB. In line
with these objectives, IDA's involvement with Bangladesh's power subsector
began in June 1979, with the approval of a US$28.0 million credit for the
Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project (Credit 934-BD) to upgrade add
improve the distribution networks in Khulna and three neighboring to-.ns.
Approval of two power credits followed in June 1982: US$40.0 milLion for the
Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD) to provide electricity to
seven rural cooperatives, which was supplemented by US$8.0 million under the
Supplemental Assistance to Selected Projects (Credit 1504-3-BD)1 and US$92.0
million for the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD) to heLp
expand the generating capacity of the Ashuganj thermal power station by
adding two 150 MW gas-fired steam units. In November 1985, a credit of
US$79.0 million equivalent was approved to finance a Second Rural
Electrification Project (Credit 1633-BD) which is part of the Government's
continuing program to expand the supply of electricity in rural areas.
52.     Completion of the Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project has been
delayed by more than one year, mainly due to delays in procurement. BPDB
has, however, taken corrective steps to remedy the situation and the project
is expected to be completed by the end of FY86. The Ashuganj Thermal Power
and the Rural Electrification Projects are progressing smoothly after initial
delays, which have caused the estimated completion date for the Ashuganj
Thermal Power Project to slip from June 1986 to July 1987. IDA is anticipat-
ing substantial savings under the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project and is
considering a Government request that IDA utilize a portion of these savings
to finance a third gas-fired steam unit at Ashuganj to meet anticipated
growth in demand.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
53.     The proposed project was appraised in September/October 1984.  A
Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Bangladesh - Power Transmission and
Distribution Project't (No. 5510, dated December 10, 1985) is being dis-
tributed separately. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in November
1985. The Government delegation was led by Dr. Nazrul Islam, Member,
Planning Commission.
Project Objectives
54.     The principal objectives of the proposed project are:  to expand and
reinforce the transmission and distribution system of BPDB to meet forecast
demand at least cost; to stabilize voltage throughout the system; to increase
the system's reliability; to reduce power losses in transmission and
distribution; and to strengthen BPDB's financial operations.



-15-
Project Description
55.     The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a) erection of about 582 km of 132-kV lines; (b) extension of sixteen 132-kV
substations to acconmodate the new lines, and the installation of two
132/33-kV transformers, each of 20 MVA, in two of these substations;
(c) extension and reinforcement of the low-voltage distribution network in
fourteen towns, involving the erection of about 24 km of 33-kV lines, 140 km
of 1l-kV lines, 210 km of 6.35-kV lines. and 230 km of 400-volt lines, and
the extension/erection of twelve substations of 33-kV, five megavolt-ampere
(MVA) each, and of 131 distribution substations of 11-kV of various trans-
former sizes; (d) provision of meters and metering equipment for a loss
reduction program; and (e) technical assistance for ti) design and construc-
tion supervision, (ii) improving BPDB's commercial and financial functions,
(iii) assisting BPDB in reinforcing its planning units and formulating a
rehabilitation program to reduce system losses, (iv) undertaking a study to
set tariffs based on long run marginal costs and developing a methodology for
the revaluation of BPDB's fixed assets, and (v) training for BPDB's transmis-
sion line engineers and linesmen.
Project Cost
56.     The estimated total cost of the proposed project, including price and
physical contingencies, duties, and taxes, is US$71.6 million equivalent.
Duties and taxes have been estimated at US$4.2 million. .otal finances
required, including interest during construction (US$11.3 million
equivalent), are estimated at US$82.9 million equivalent, of which US$47.8
million equivalent would be in foreign exchange. The estimates are based on
mid-1985 prices. On the basis of experience with similar projects, physical
contingencies have been provided at 10% for equipment, material, and
services. Price contingencies for foreign costs are assumed at 7Z annually
for FY86-FY87, 7.5% for FY88, 7.7% for FY89, and 7.6% thereafter. Price
contingencies for local costs are 13% for FY86 and llX thereafter. Total
price contingencies amount to 24.3% of base cost including physical
contingencies.
Financing Plan
57.    IDA would finance US$56.0 million, constituting 94X of the foreign
cost and 57% of the local cost, excluding taxes, duties, and interest during
construction. UNDP would provide US$3.0 million, constituting 6% of foreign
costs, to finance consulting services for the system loss reduction and
tariff studies. The proceeds of the IDA credit wouLd be onlent to BPDB by
the Government under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
BPDB at a rate of 11.5% per annum for a period of 20 years, including a grace
period of five years. BPDB would bear the foreign exchange risk. The execu-
tion of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The Government's contribution, to finance local costs, would
be US$11.4 million equivalent, of which US$7.0 million equivalent (60Z) would



-16-
be as equity and US$4.4 million equivalent (40Z) would be as long-term loan
at a rate of 11.5% per annum. BPDB would finance local costs amounting to
US$12.5 million equivalent (15% of total project costs) from internally
generated cash. Approval of the Project Proforma 1/ by the Government would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
Project Execution
58.     BPDB would be responsible for executing the project with the assis-
tance of contractors and consultants. BPDB has prepared the engineering
designs, draft specifications, and bidding documents for the 132-kV Lines and
substations, and employed, in August 1985, consuLtants to review the draft
documents reLated to the 132-kV substations, which involve sophisticated
equipment, requiring close coordination with existing equipment.
59.     For the low-voltage distribution works, BPDB appointed, in
November 1985, six local consultants to undertake field surveys and designs,
prepare draft bidding documents, and supervise construction. However, due to
somewhat limited local consulting capacity, documents prepared by the local
consultants would be reviewed by consultants of international experience,
whom BPDB would appoint under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The
appointment of the latter consultants would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. These international consultants also would supervise con-
struction of the entire project, except for the low-voltage distribution
works, and wouLd train BPDB staff in techniques of maintenance and erection
of distribution lines.
60.     To assist in the implementation of the project, BPDB would appoint a
Project Director, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
The appointment of the Project Director would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Construction of the physical component of the proposed
project would be completed in about four years from the date of initiation of
works.
Implementation Agency
61.     BPDB's Board of Directors consists of a Chairman and five Members,
all of whom are appointed by the Government. Although conceived as a semi-
autonomous corporate entity, in practice BPDB's management has very limited
autonomy. The Government has retained responsibility, within the framework
of the country's overall development plans, for policy formulation concerning
the development of the power subsector. However, its influence is not con-
fined to strategic decision-making, but extends to such functional matters as
the appointment of BPDB officers, setting of salary levels, and procurement.
1/ An internal Government document, the approval of which is a prerequisite
for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-17-
62.     BPDB is considerably overstaffed.  During FY1984, BPDB with a staff
of about 22,000 employees served some 725,000 consumers. Since 1978, BPDB
has reduced recruitment of lower-level staff. As a result, the
consumer/employee ratio in FY84 was 35:1, an improvement over the 20:1 ratio
in FY78. Continuation of the eyisting policy of limiting recruitment of new
staff wiLl lead to further improvement in this ratio, particularly since
there are substantial increases forecast in the number of consumers.
63.     One of the main reasons for an unreliable power suppLy system in
Bangladesh has been the lack of regular preventive maintenance by BPDB which
in turn was due to an inadequate number of trained peLsonnel and to non-
availability of spare parts. To solve the trained manpower problem, BPDB
has set up training institutions for its employees. Under the Greater Khulna
Power Distribution Project (Credit 934-BD), IDA is financing the upgrading of
the BPDB training institute at Khulna to provide improved training facilities
for power distribution specialists (foreman, linesman, cable jointers). The
proposed project includes US$500,000 to further strengthen the training
institute. This provision includes about US$300,000 to meet the cost of new
tools and equipment required to train BPDB staff in modern techniques of
distribution line er,-eion and maintenance.  About US$200,000 would be used
to meet the cost of o erseas training of BPDB staff in accordance with an
agreed timetable.



-18-
Procurement
64.     Procurement arrangements are shown below:
Procurement Table
(USs million Equivalent)
Procurement Arrangements
Description
ICB     LCB /2   OTHERS /1   NA /3    Total
(a) Line Materials             18.6    0.2         0.2        4.2        23.2
(18.6)  (0.2)       (0.2)       -        (19.0)
(b) Substation Materials       17.5    0.2         0.2        4.0        21.9
(17.5)  (0.2)       (0.2)       -        (17.9)
(c) Civil Works                 4.5    2.0          -         1.4         7.9
(4.5)  (2.0)         -         -         (6.5)
(d) Land Acquisition
& Development              -       -          -         1.4         1.4
(e) Vehicles & Erection         2.5      -          -         0.5         3.0
Equipment                (2.5)    -           -          -         (2.5)
(f) Erection &                  1.0    2.4          -         0.6         4.0
Commissioning            (1.0)  (2.4)         -          -        (3.4)
(g) Equipment for Loss
Reduction (Meters and       2.4      -          -         0.5         2.9
Metering Equipment)        (2.4)                                     (2.4)
(h) Consulting Services
(i) System Loss Reduction
Study and Tariff
Study                   -      -          3.0         -         3.0
(ii) Other Consulting
Services for Design
and Supervision of                        3.8         -         3.8
Project                 -      -         (3.8)                 (3.8)
(i) Training                     -       -         0.5         -          0.5
(0.5)                 (0.5)
46.5   4.8         7.7       12.6       71.6
TOTAL                   (46.5) (4.8)       (4.7)         -      (56.0)
Note: The figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
/1 Under column "Others" US$0.2 and 0.2 million for the items a and b (with
totaL limited to US$375,000) relate to the cost of items procured under
LIB procedures. Consulting services for system loss reduction and tariff
studies will be financed by UNDP.
/2 The total procurement of equipment under LCB procedured would be limited
to US$375,000.
/3  Costs under column "NA" relate to local duties and taxes and BPDB
administrative charges, Local transport, handling and insurance charges.



-19-
65.     Procurement of materials and equipment (as well as the construction
of the 132-kV substacions and related supply of equipment on a turnkey basis)
would be on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accord-
ance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits."
It is expected that only foreign suppliers would submit bids for the equip-
ment and materials. Local manufacturers who may participate in the bidding
would be allowed a preference margin of 15% of CIF prices or the prevailing
import duties, whichever is lower. Contracts for civiL works (other than for
132-kV substations) would be awarded through local competitive bidding (LCB)
under procedures satisfactory to IDA. Small quantities of materials, tools,
spares, and equipment not exceeding US$75,000 for each contract, and in the
aggregate not exceeding US$375,000, could be procured through limited inter-
national bidding (LIB) on the basis of bids from a list of at least three
qualified suppLiers. In addition, small quantities of materials, tools,
spare parts and equipment estimated to cost less than US$75,000 each, up to
an aggregate of US$375,000 equivalent, could also be awarded on the basis of
LCB in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. All IDA financed
contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review.
Disbursement
66.     Disbursement under the proposed credit would be as follows:  (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures of line and substation materials, vehicles and
equipment; in the case of locally-manufactured goods, 100% of the ex-factory
price; in the case of other items procured locally, 70% of the local
expenditure; (b) 100l of foreign expenditure and 80% of local expenditure
for civil works, including erection and commissioning charges; (c) 100% of
total expenditure of consulting services; and (d) OOZ of expenditure for
overseas training. The proposed credit would be disbursed over a period of
six fiscal years.  Retroactive financing would be permitted up to
SDR 5.0 million equivalent on account of payments made for expenditures after
October 1, 1984, but before credit signing. In order to facilitate
disbursement, a Special Account would be established in the Bangladesh Bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The initial deposit into the
Special Account would be SDR 3.0 million equivalent.
Financial Performance
67.     In Februarv 1978, the Government prepared a Financial Recovery Plan
for BPDB, which included: (a) restructuring BPDB's debt; (b) financing the
local cost of BPDB's investment program (through loans and equity
contribution); (c) reducing system losses; (d) revising tariffs periodically;
and (e) establishing programs for rehabilitation and improved management.
Progress has been made in meeting the overall objectives of this recovery
plan. Although BPDB has not fully met financial targets as agreed under the
Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD), it is gradually improving
its financial performance. In FY83, BPDB broke even financially for the



-20-
first time, partially as a result of a decrease in average fuel costs per kWh
generated due to the commissioning of the east/west interconnector
(paragraph 41). Progress in reducing system losses, however, has continued
to be slow (paragraph 68).
System Losses
68.     In FY80 and FY81, BPDB's energy losses of power in its transmission
and distribution networks were about 40% of gross generation. Under the
Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD), BPDB agreed to take all
steps necessary to reduce losses, as a percentage of gross generation, to
about 28% in FY83, 25% in FY84, 23% in FY85, and 20% in FY90. Little
progress, however, has been made. System losses, on the basis of gross
generation, were estimated at about 39% in FY85 and are expected to be about
36% in FY86. Transmission and distribution losses account for 31Z of net
generation, consisting of about 14% technical losses and 17% non-technical
losses. The main reasons for technical losses are overloaded distribution
systems and inadequate power factor correction. Non-technical losses are
mainly due to inadequate metering and billing systems, and to theft and
corruption.  A joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Kanagement Assistance
Program which was finalized in February 1985, has recommended a program to
reduce technical and non-technical losses. The Government has agreed to
implement a system loss reduction program, under which BPDB would:
(a)     appoint a consulting firm, satisfactory to IDA, to provide
the services of a commercial manager, one meter engineer, and five
meter technicians, each for a period of two years, to help BPDB
streamline its billing and metering procedures;
(b)     appoint consultants, satisfactory to IDA, to assist BPDB's
distribution planning units to reinforce its distribution systems,
identify areas of high losses, and recommend by December 31, 1986,
and thereafter implement, dated action programs to remedy each of the
specific causes of system loss;
(c)     by June 30, 1986, prepare and furnish to IDA for its review
and comments a program to provide meters at those installations where
there are none and to recalibrate existing meters and to make all
installations secure; thereafter, BPDB would implement the program,
taking into account the comments of IDA; and
(d)     by June 30, 1986, prepare and furnish to IDA for its review
and comments a program for the introduction of a computerized billing
system consistent with normal commercial utility practices;
thereafter, BPDB would implement the program, taking into account the
comments of IDA.



-21-
The Government has secured financing from UNDP for the services of the con-
sultants required by the program for reducing system losses (paragraphs 68(a)
and (b)). UNDTCD has been appointed as the executing agency.
69.     Pending the introduction of loss reduction measures based on the
above studies, BPDB would continue to implement its ongoing loss reduction
program, which includes the following key measures: (i) procurement and
installation of appropriate mecers at all unmetered installations;
(ii) calibration of existing meters; (iii) 100% meter reading and billing,
and checking by supervisory personnel; (iv) prevention of theft and pilferage
through the installation of secure and tamperproof meter enclosures; and
(v) prompt disconnection and prosecution of consumers for the illegal use of
electricity. BPDB would prepare for IDA's review an analysis of the level of
system losses showing progress made up to December 31, 1985, and for each
sucLeeding six-month period thereafter, until a level acceptable to IDA is
achieved.
Tariffs and Financial Objectives
70.     Under the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD), the
Government and BPDB agreed to adjust tariffs so that BPDB would realize net
cash generation sufficient to finance at least 20% of its average annual
investment in FY83, 25% in FY84 through FY86, and 40% in FY87 and thereafter.
Tariffs were increased by about 28Z in July 1982, 3.2Z in July 1983, 9.5% in
March 1984, and 3.4% in December 1984, leading to an increase in the average
tariff rate from Tk 1.00/kWh in FY82 to Tk 1.41/kWh in June 1985. Although
it was able to move from a position of loss in the 1970s to the financial
breakeven point in FY83, BPDB was not able to meet the cash generation objec-
tives in FY83 through FY85. It is expected that BPDB will be able, in FY86,
to generate net cash equal to about 12Z of its average annual investment as a
result of the tariff increase of about 16% introduced from September 1, 1985.
71.     Assessment of BPDB's financial performance on the basis of cash
generation is hampered by uncertainties concerning BPDB's future investment
program which is expected to increase sharply in FY86-FY88, followed by a
smaller program thereafter. Due to these uncertainties, it was considered
appropriate to replace the cash generation objective with a rate of return
target, based on BPDB's average revalued net fixed assets in operation
(paragraph 72). Therefore, agreement has been reached that the Government
and BPDB would take all necessary measures to enable BPDB to achieve a rate
of return of 5% in FY86, 7.5% in FY87, 8.5% in FY88, 9% in FY89 and 10% in
FY90 and thereafter. The tariff increase introduced with effect from
September 1, 1985 shouLd enable BPDB to meet the covenanted rate of return
for FY86.
72.     Under the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD), it was
also agreed that BPDB would, commencing in FY83, revalue annually its fixed
assets in operation in a manner satisfactory to IDA. Consequently, each year
from FY82 onward, BPDB has revalued by 1OZ its gross fixed assets in



-22-
operation. Although this methodology does not follow the usual approach to
asset revaluation, it is considered acceptable in BPDB's case as an interim
measure until the long-run marginal cost study, which includes asset
revaluation, is completed (paragraph 74). Under the proposed project, BPDB
would revalue its assets annually in a manner satisfactory to IDA. Following
completion of the long-run marginal cost study, a methodology for the future
revaluation o assets would be agreed upon between the Government/BPDB and
IDA taking into account the results of the study.
73.     BPDB's financial situation for the period FY86-FY92 has been
projected assuming average annual tariff increases of about 11% starting July
1985. These increases would enable BPDB to realize the required rate of
return of 10% in FY90. In FY86, BPDB is expected to generate net cash equal
to 12% of its three-year average annual investment program. This ratio would
increase progressively and in FY89, BPDB is expected to generate net cash
equal to about 47X of the average annual investment program. In the period
FY86-FY90, the Government's contribution (US$323 million equivalent) is
expected to be about 20% of BPDB's investment program, of which 61% would be
provided as equity and 39% as long-term loans; foreign currency requirements
of US$960 million equivalent represent about 58Z of the investment program;
and BPDB is expected te) generate about 22% (US$361 equivalent) from internal
resources. The Government has already obtained commitments from external
donors for about 70% of the foreign currency requirement.
Tariff Study
74.     Under the Ashuganj ThermaL Power Project (Credit 1254-BD) and the
Rural Electrification Project (Credit 1262-BD), it was agreed that by the end
of 1984, the Government would conduct a study of tariffs for bulk and retail
consumers to be applied in the power sector, taking into account the long-run
marginal costs of supply, and would implement a new tariff structure and
other study recommendations as agreed by the Government and IDA by July 1,
1986. The study has not yet been carried out. In October 1984, The
Government requested UNDP to finance this study. During the appraisal of the
proposed project and the Second Rural Electrification Project, it was found
that an additional study should be undertaken to investigate the financial
burden placed on the Government by the rural electrification program, includ-
ing both current and capital costs of existing and planned investments, and
the extent of the subsidies provided to the rural electrification system.
This study has now been included in the terms of reference for the tariff
study on long-run marginal costs. Under the proposed project the Government
would: (a) within a time-frame, under arrangements and in accordance with
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA, carry out a study of the subsidies
provided to the rural electrification program, and the bulk and retail
tariffs to be applied in the power sector, taking into account the long-run
marginal cost of supply; (b) promptly furnish to IDA the findings and recom-
mendations of the study; and (c) by December 31, 1986 implement in phases
revised tariffs and such other measures as would be agreed between the
Government and IDA. This study wilL be financed by UNDP with IDA as the



-23-
executing agency; the study is expected to comnence in January 1986 and be
completed by June 1986.
Billing and Collection
75.     In FY84, only 87.7% of total consumers were billed and 78% of the
total amount billed was collected. During FY82-84, BPDB issued supplementary
bills for the free consumption by its own staff and for consumers believed to
have been underbilled. Supplementary billing was disputed by cuscomers and
was largely uncollectible. Consequently, issuing these bills distorted
actual sales data and inflated accounts receivable. BPDB, therefore, has
discontinued the practice of issuing supplementary billing unless
underbilling, theft, fraud, etc. has been clearly established and the billed
amounts are collectible. The cost of supplying free electricity to BPDB
staff will be budgeted as part of station use or as staff benefits and will
not artificially inflate either system loss calculations or accounts
receivable.
76.     Under the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD), BPDB is
required to keep its accounts receivable below 20Z of forecast sales, as
approved in its annual budget. However, BPDB's actual accounts receivable
were about 36% of forecast sales revenue at the end of FY84. Accounts
receivables, which represented 2.8 months of actual sales in FY82, increased
to 4.4 months in FY83 and 5.8 months in FY84. This sharp increase in arrears
during FY83 and FY84 was attributed in part to the introduction of supplemen-
tary billing. On June 30, 1984, BPDB's accounts receivable amounted to Tk
1,780 million. This high level of accounts receivable served as a constraint
on BPDB's financial performance and caused serious delays in the payment of
fuel bills and frequent resort to short-term borrowing at high interest rates
to solve liquidity problems. The Government and BPDB have prepared, and IDA
has fuund acceptable, a proposed program to settle existing accounts
receivable, together with a timetable for implementation. Under the proposed
project, BPDB would implement the action program and ensure that, by June 30,
1988 and thereafter, its accounts receivables would not exceed the equivalent
of the three preceding months' sales of electricity. The Government would
reduce its arrears due to BPDB to a level satisfactory to IDA as a condition
of credit effectiveness.
Debt/Equity
77.     The Government agreed under the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project
(Credit 1254-BD) to revise its arrangements for financing BPDB's investment
program by increasing its equity contribution to maintain a debt/equity ratio
of not more than 60:40. In July 1983, the Government agreed to convert all
local currency loans made before June 30, 1981, and all foreign grants 1/



-24-
without any relending agreements, into equity. At the end of FY84; BPDB's
debt/equity ratio was at the satisfactory level of 48:52. The Government has
rekffirmed its agreement that a debt/equity ratio of not more than 60:40
would be maintained.
Accounts and Audit
78.     Consultants assisted BPDB in the introduction of a new accounting
system for BPDB, which was basicalLy completed in FY81. Further improvements
are required, including property accounting and inventory accounts. During
the early period of project supervision, IDA and BPDB, therefore, wouLd
jointly carry out an overaLl review and evaluation of the new accounting
system, to identify major weaknesses and to recommend steps for improvement.
79.     BPDB's accounts are audited by independent chartered accountants.
However, BPDB has not been abLe to comply with the agreement under the
Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit 1254-BD) that audit reports would be
submitted to IDA within nine months after the end of each fiiancial year.
BPDB has reaffirmed its commitment regarding the audit of its accounts and
the timely submission of the annual financial statements and audit report not
later than nine months after the end of each financial year.
Insurance
80.     Currently, BPDB does not carry insurance for its fixed assets in
operation or other properties. Under the proposed project, BPDB would estab-
lish and maintain a fund from its own resources to cover insurance risks. A
draft scheme establishing this fund would be submitted to IDA for comment by
December 31, 1986 and would be implemented promptly thereafter.
Project Justification
81.     The proposed project is justified as part of the least-cost expansion
program for BPDB's transmission and distribution systems. A minimum measure
of the benefits associated with these programs is indicated by the incremen-
tal sales revenue. Based on an average revenue of Tk 1.64/kWh, and using the
standard conversion factor of G.80 to convert financial revenue into a
measure of economic benefit, the minimum economic rate of return for the
project is estimated to be 9.6Z. The project, however, would confer benefits
in excess of those measured by incremental revenue. A more appropriate
method for determining the economic rate of return is consumers' willingness
to pay for incremental electricity estimated in terms of the cost they would
bear to meet their energy requirements in the absence of the project. For
household and commercial consumers the cost of lighting using kerosene lamps
1/ Conversion of grants was made at the exchange rate prevailing on the
date of disbursement.



-25-
was used, while for industrial and irrigation consumers it was the cost of
operating dieseL motors. Using such a base, the economic rate of return is
estimated to be about 12.7%.
Risks
82.     The project is straightforward and risks are limited.  One likely
cause of sLippage would be delays in procurement. Appointment of consultants
to assist BPDB in preparing designs and bidding documents and in construccion
supervision would minimize this risk. BPDB's past financial performance and
its efforts to reduce system losses need to be improved. Without such
improvements, BPDB's ability to implement the planned expansion of rhe power
network and the institution building objectives of the project would be
placed at risk. In order to address these issues, the project would include
(i) a program to reduce system losses, both on an interim and longer term
basis, and (ii) the establishment of specific short-term financial goals for
BPDB and the development of longer term performance goals based on a long-run
marginal cost based tariff study.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
83.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association. I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
December 12, 1985



-26-
T ABh LK  U                                        PAEI
6SCIJOt!N              -_S0AC_L-DINOC4OR DATA -----
BANGLADESH                           RKFSRNCt GOtIFS CZITNAD AhmuAtKS) 1
HOSlT                     (acm3 khEWN  ISTIHATEILb lb
slonar              LOW KncoW            "IEDDL DEC3
I 9soL     197u! z         !STIN TL/b  ASIA & PACIFIC       AsiA & PAciIc
a !1ou0. SQ. -)
TOTAL                              146.0       144.0      144.0
ACRWCULTURAL                        94.6       97.0        97.4
CF P  Cain (USS)                        ..         ..        130.0              278.3                    1011.1
Xf   W11331f10 Pt CWltTA
tloWmS or OIL QUIVALENT)             ..         20.0       35.0              265.7                     sn.a
IImTano AN VITASL STsTISCS
POPWuATION.H1D-EAR (THOUSANDS)  53491.0    68117.0    95497.0
uN   PPLATION (I Ur TOTAL)           S.2         7.6       17.0               22.3                      35.9
PO nIanTIaw  RumcuOIvS
PPULATION IN YMAL ZOO OffLL)                           141.1
STATIONAR POPUUTION (HILL)                              310.0
OPUIATION IU ITE                                          1.9
POPUXATON Dozslr
PE  sq. U.                       371.5       473.0      063.2              173.8                     380.9
PR SQ. MI. ACtE. LAIID           565.3      702.5       955.3              353.3                    1591.2
POPULATIoN ACE SIECURI CZ)
0-14 RS                          ".Z         46.2       43.6               36.3                      38.2
15-64 MS                          52.5       51.1        53.6              5"A                        57.7
65SA3 ADM                          3.1         2.6        2.6                4.3                       3.5
POPUATION GROM UIA  E2)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.4        2.6                2.0                       2.3
ORB"                               3.7         6.2        6.2                4.1                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH 1 RATE (PR THOUS)       6.S.0                  41.5               27.5                      30.1
CRUDE OETU RATE (PER mHOUS)         22.5       20.9        15.7               10.2                       9.4
GROSS RntOnirN  RATE                 3.4         3.4        3.1                1.7                       1.9
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS. AOL (TOus)              ..        373.0     1607.0 it
USERS CZ OF KARRIS 1WOMEN)         ..         ..         25.0 7i-           49.4                      56.5
YONs sND io nStx
INDf OF FFOD PROD. PERt CPITA
(1969-71-100)                      106.0       101.0       94.0              116.b                     124.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAoLORES (Z OF REQUIREnETS)       .3.0        90.0       63.0             1U6.3                     115.7
PTEINS (CAHS PER DAY)            43.0        45.0        42.0               60.1                     00.3
OF HICH ANMA  ND PULSE            9.0         9.0        7.0 /a            14.6                      1461
C1TLD CAGtS 1-4) DEATH RATE         25.4       22.6        19.0                7.3                      7.2
SMALlEX
LIFE EXrECT. AT BlTR CtEARS)        43.5       ".9         49.6               60.5                      6u.6
IFANr moT. RATE (PER TOOUS)        159.0      150.0       132.0               69.2                     ".9
ACCESS TO SAM WATER (TPOP)
TOTAL                              '          45.0       38.0 Ic            44.2                      46.0
DlHUJ                              ,.         13.0       26.0 7             77.Z                      57.6
RUAL                               .         47.0        40.0 7ir           34.6                     37.1
ACCESS TO ElCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATIOI)
TOTAL                              ..         6.0         3.0 /c             7.8                      50.1
UKMA .N                                       ..         21.0 Ic            284                      52.9
RUAL.                              .          ..          1.0 7r             5,5                     44.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICLW              ..      8430.0      7810.0             331S.0                   7751.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                     76810.0    22570.0              4690.7                   246.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                              ..       7020.0 /t  4090.0             1039.2                    1112.1
UMA                                ..       810.0 7!   600.0 /a            299.1                    651.4
R1RAL                               .         ..      23470.0 r.          0028.2                   Z596.9
t1SSIO0S PER HOSPIAL BED            ..          ..          ..                52.3                     41.1
amn1
AVERAGE SIZE OF hOUSEMOLD
TOTAL                              ..          5.9 If     5.8 /c
RBAN                               ..         6.17F       6. 77
RURAL                              ..         5.9 Tf      5.S 7c.
AVERMtE NO. OF PERSONStROVI
TOrAL                              ..          ..
URBA                      ..          ...                            ..
RDUAL                              ..         ..          .                   ..
PERCENTAGE OF OWELLISCS JTI RLECT.
TOTAL                              ..         ..          3.5 Ic
UatN                               ..         ...
RURAL                              ..         ..



-27-
T AL . 3L                                         PAGE 2
RA)LAOISH              - SOCTl. iNIlCATORN ODITA SHRLT
iANGLAKwisK                         ItFERUNCE GROUIt (lE IGiTED AVELACS) Ns
DOST                    (.'ST "CENT ESTDIATh) /b
R9CE!IT           LOW INCOmE            IDDLE INCME
196Ulb-    19 ZI1L LTSATVib         ASIA 4 PACISIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
ADJUST ENROLUIMENT RATIOS
PlIUIRT:  tOTAL                   47.0       52.0        bU.U              92.6                     1W.7
HALE                   66.0        68.0       68.0              105.5                    104.4
FEMIALE                26.0        34.0       51.0               79.3                     97.2
SECOWDARY: TOTAL                  5.0        19.0        15.0              31.3                     47.8
HALE                   l4.0        29.0       24.0               40.8                     Su.6
FEKALZ                  1.0        8.0         6.0               21.9                    44.8
VOCATIONAL (Z OF iECNDARY)           1.0        0.8        14.3               3.2                     11.4
PUPIL-TEACIER RATIO
PRIMARf                            ..        45.0        55.0 /d           38.0                     30.4
SECONDARY                          ..        26.0        21.0 7;           17.4                     22.2
PASSENCER CARStIOUSAND POP           ..         0.4         0.4 /c            0.9                     10.1
RD10 RECEJEPRS/ITOUSAND POP          ..         ..          8.1             129.8                    172.9
TV RBCEIERSITHOUSAND POP             ..         ..          0.9              19.8                     58.5
NOIiSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             ..         ..          5.8              25.7                     65.3
CIYEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANC/CAPIT        ..         ..          ..                6.0                      3.4
LAWK FORME
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)        19252.0    23611.0    33542.0
FEMA  C(PERCENT)                  15.2       16.6        17.8              33.2                     33.6
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             87.0       86.0        74.0 /c           69.6                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 3.0        3.0        11.0i7T           15.8                     17.9
PARTIC=PATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             36.0       34.7        35.1              41.9                      38.9
MlLE                              58.7       55.9        56.3              53.6                     50.5
FEMALE                            11.4       11.9        1Z.8              29.1                     Z6.8
ECWOIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.3         1.4         1.3               1.0                      1.1
INCOS DISTX50T1
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED ff
HIGHEST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS          18.3
HIGOEST 20S OF l0USEHOLDS         45         *4.1 Ih      ..
LOWJEST 20 OF HOUSEHODS            6.9 7      8.7 7iW     ..                ..                       O.4
LOMEST 402 0F HOUSEHOLDS          17.9 7xj   19.6 7       ..                ..                      15.5
ESTIMAED MASOLUTE POVERTY INCOM
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
tRBAN                              ..          ..       139.0 /a           133.9
RURAL                              ..         ..        111.0 T-          111.6                    151.9
ESTMATED RELAIIvE POVER7Y IS01E
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..          ..                ..                      177.9
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..               61.7                    164.7
t,rcJALra.U cur. _,
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (t)
URAN                               ..         ..         86.0 /e           43.8                     23.5
RURAL                              ..         ..         86.0 T            51.7                     37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO TE S
la  The group aerases for each indicator arm populationweighted aritLlue atlc  as. (verage of contries
among the ind5cators depend. on availability of data and Is not unifor.6
lb   Unless otheralse noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" betwovn
1969 and 1971; and data for "'lit Recent Estiete'- betwen 1981 and 1983.
Ic 1980; /d 1984; 1. 1977; /f 1973; & 1963; Al 1967 /I 1972.
JUzlE. 1985



-28-
nulNmo1vs OF SOCwAL 11n1CATOS
NoMi Althou  the dat medrawn rim sourm gealyJudpd the nmol authorative and reliabk it should abo be noted that they may non be internationally
com_arbe  beau or the lack of ataadurd    deflilbon and concept mnd by difhent countries in collecting the data. The data afre nonethelu. useful to
demobe orden of magnitude indi ate tredm a  dmchrie crain major differne between countrieL
Th. ree g-oups are (1) the se comuy group or the subjact country nd (2) a country group with somewhat higher acrage income than ihe country
grupotheubiet coutry(except for 'Kigh IncameOil Expones' group where"Middle Incme North Afries and Middle East" is chon becau of stronger
smoiultu.l affiitiesJ In the rerence A roup dam the averages ar population weighSl arithnmetic mcen for ech indicator and shown only when majority
of thecouatie in a group ba data for that indicator. Snce the covageofcounuies mong the indicator depends on the availbility ofdatta and in not uniform.
ca tion m  be eeried in rekting avenof one indicator to another Thse veragsare only useful in comparng the value ol'one indicalor at a tine among
the country and refierence Soupt
AREA (thousand sq.knm.)                                         Cruk Ait Rate (per t_hoJand-Number of live births in the year
Total-Total surface are comprising land area and inland waters  per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crde Death Rate (per thairand)-Number of deaths in the year
AgrEmbwat-Estimate of agricultul area used temporariy or        per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
permanently  rcrops. pastures. market and kitchen grdens or to  Grow Reprdwaion  Rare-Average number ofdaughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data,                           win bear in her normal rproductive praiod ir she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
anrkt prices, calculted by smae conversion method as World      Asa*  Pfaag-Acptears. Ananal (thosenh)-Annual num-
Bank Atkas (19814b3 basis) 1983 data.                           her of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspiees of national
ENERGY CONSUMPIION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   fanily planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Fi PlarMnp-User (pere  of married sswnsen)-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nucear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
sonme countries contraccptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Toal Ppialatiem, Ms- Yew (thrmau1ri-As of July 1:1960.1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
nex ofiF    redatFim Per Capita (I969-71f=    J-Index of per
When PopaIeda  (perent of torel)-Ratio of urban to total        capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population different defnitons of urban areas may affect ccnpar-  exludes animal feed and seed for agrculture. Food commodities
ability of data anong countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
-          Rvsefiom                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popuarin al year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.    exduded): they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economny separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptons until the population became stationary.              Per Capa Sppy of Calres (percewt frequfren#)-Comput-
Stationry populraion-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replcment klvel  don. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth mte is  exclude animal feed. seeds ror use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losser in distribution. Requirenents were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normnal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popukrtion Mmmnexan-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Ca*a Sapy of Ptein (grams per dayj-Protein content or
continue beyond the time that replacment-level fertility has bees  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply orfood is defined
achieved that is, even arter the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. Tlhe momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
P fi     Densiry                                                average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kn.-Mid-year population per square kilomneter (100 hec-  Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capita Prein Sapy From Anmaland Nlse-Protein supply
Per sq.km. agricularal led-Computed as above for agricultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams perday: 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Population Age Sbnre (percext)-Children (0- 14 years). work-    CWh  (ages 1-4) Deah Rate (per rthosndj-Number of dea ths or
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
PopAaiom  Growh Rae (percemrn-total-Annual growth rates of      from life tabks: 1960. 1970 and a983 data.
total mrid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
Popukdo. Crowsh Ratre (perceetjri-ara-Annual growth rates       Lie Expectany at Birth (yars)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of monality for all people



-29-
at the time Of or its birth were to stay the same throughout its life; : upp-geacher Ratio - primary. and serondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
/Afmuw Martaty Rae (per tho*Jnd-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels,
before reaching one year of age per thousand ive births in a given
year. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Acems t Soit Water (P E  of wo  erban)d S   Pase r Car (per tJosed p.awAtion)-Passenger cars com-
nW-Number or people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable   prise motor cars seating kss than eight persons; exdudes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Radio Recewers (per thewsandp.pulaIio)-All types of receivers
boreholes springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respcC  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand orpopulation;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licenseu receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in edfec; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that houser In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable acess would imnply that the housewife or members of the
houselhold do not have to spend a dip,roportionate part or the day  TV Reedern (per thousandpeplilhi.n)--TV receivers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water needs.                          to general public per thousand population. exdudes unlicensed TV
Acce ssto Excreta Disposal (percentof pepidstion)--forar, wban,  receivers in countries and in years when registration or TV sets was
and rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  m
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  AIem pWeP  C rh'cam (Ptr Vhms.d popularion)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of "daily general interest newspaperE" defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
Povdation per Physicman- bpulation divided by number of prac-   Cinm  Aanna Atendame per Capite per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Population per Nsin Perso-Piopulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobilc units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LABOR FORCE
-bpnlatiol, per Hespital Bed-total, urban, and ro'al-Plpulation  ortal Labr Force (tleuands)-Economically active persons. in-
totaL urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and uremployed but excluding housewives.
(tosptal,edsavailableinpurblian,privatc generalandsp cialized students. etc.. covering papulation of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specialized  vroscutisaentoprbe  90  90ad11  aa
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  vanous countries are not comparable 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanendy staffed by at least one physician. Establshnients prov-  Feale (percent)-Fmnale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanentdy staffed  Airk*Uwe percer)--Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a nmdical assistant, nur   midwife etc.)  and tishing as percnntage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of nedical facilitics                                           ndubstry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adissins per Hospit Bed-Total number of admissions to or        facturingand electricity. waterand gasas percentage ortoal labor
dischaiges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Particat Rrte (perFeAt)-rofal,nalc, adfenmk-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Aerage Ste of Houeid (prso  per h0shlW)-toal, urba,           as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
AdwaL-A household consists of a grou ofrindividuals who share   respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates refecting age-sex structureof the population. and
may not be induded in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Aprrqe Number of Persons pfe Roo-tosal, urban, ad rural-       &Eowc Dependey Raio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons pcr room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTR!BUTION
P-cenare of Dweli   with Electicky-total. uba, and rural-      Perentag of Total Dispmblk  cme (bath in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of howeholds ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Agusted Fnroilnent Ratios                                      The following estimates are very approximate m&sures of poverty
Prinary school - total. male and femak-Gross total. male and   levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of aD ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimated Absolute Povet lceme Level (USS per cqpitaJ-n,hau
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-I11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration or school  non-food requirements .s not afflordabie.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estmated Reltirve Poverty Income  Levl (USS per capha)i-wrban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income levcl is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                            derived firom the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. male and female-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years or approved pri-  Estimated Popatio  Below Absolute Poverty Income Level (per-
mary instruction provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cent)-arban lAd rua- ftcrcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupil usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded. -
Vocational iEroilmeni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industrial. or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepndenldy or as departments of secondary institutions.                               June 19B5



_OSIC TSO?C&I?OU
PoulatiLon   160.06 millie  (1985)
GNP Per Capitas 118130 (1983)
Amount
(million   ,            vwrae Annual lcreearo C)                   Sbare of CG  at arket Prices (Z)
in current pricon)          (in  ont.t1                                     (Le) tiu currmet briceal
ikc_to_                     nn70    nT7e_ 11t3                           n            n0    n70 WI           nso     n6 FM .f   I=  S
MrE. dometic product A           11.75             4.0      -0.6       5.5      34         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0 100.0
AgrActlture Jg                  5.512             3.1     -1.3       3.3       2.8        59.9   56.9   62.5   53.A   46.7  46.9  46.9
Industry La                     1,093             7.9     -3.2       6.4      3.6          7.7    9.6   11.3   12.7   13.8  13.1  12.7
Servicem LA                     4.749            4.9        3.3      3.1      4.1         30.1   30.0   26.2   34.0   39.6  40.0  40.C
Comepton                         11.351            4.4      -0.7       6.0      2.2         92.A   92.    99.2   98.0  103.0  98.3  96.0
Gros dem_tic instment            1J#52             10.9    -30.9       2.0      0.7          0.9   11.3    8.1   16.7   13.9   16A   15.7
Maporta of goodm  a f.            1.116            0.8    -11.7        3.A      7.A         10.0    8.3    3.0    7.8    7.7   6.5   9.5
mports of goode A .1m             2.565            8.8    -12.0        6.1    11            9.3   12.5   10.3   22.5   25.2  23.2  21.6
Gros matioal sivisga                S4             26.5    -17.7      22.1    19.7           0.9    6.1    1.0    4.0   -1.0   6.0   7.2
Ia uat
(million UU$                   Composition of Merchandise Trade r2)
An cwr--t& prices)                        (ie currEnt prk.l)
Merchandise exports                 U22                       100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Prinery L                         2I1                        41.8    31.5   29.7    31.9    33.3    30.2
Ilnfactureo                      541                         58.2    ".5   70.3    68.1    o6.7    65.8
werchsndis. importo               2.353                       10.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   LO0.0
road                              494                        47.0    44.4   33.4    14.0    19.5    21.0
Petrolm                           355                         3.9    11.1   16.2    21.3    19.7    15.1
Xachz.i a equipmet                666                         12.8    11.5   23.0    23.9    21.5    28.3
Ocher                             338                        35.t    33.0   27.4    40.8    31.3    35.6
M4       WI       nI    WI    flf           WI    fiR         WM      fil      fil      fi
P1d  AND oUMS Or Mpg INEDICfS (1972.'73-100)
WP Deflator                                     140.0   200.7   183.1   177.2   203.6   216.8   252.7    267.3   295.9   331.4   371.2
zxehwaee race (ThIJDs)                            7.9061 I .0759  14.8521 .15.4467  15.1215  15.2225  15.4777  10.3447  20.0400 23.700  24.9500
1xiort price irdex                              106.5   119.0   103.    108.9   126.5   160.9   198.9    175.7   147.7   154.5  18.5
Import price iAdez                             14.9   187.8   180.2   178.2   168.7   200.9   230.9    203.9   253.9   237.4   225.2
Terms of trsde index                             72.1    63.4    574       61.1    75.0    77.0        4.7     06.6    56.8    65.1    60.0
As Z of GDP
(at current uri.ceg
n175    PV77                         FM0 m2  3  1M
ry^[C rIC2m
Current ree                                        5.4      9.5      10.5       11.6    10.7    10.1
Current expediture                                 4.5      7.8       7.7        8.       *.5      5.
Current surplus (4) or deficit *-)                *0.9    .1.7      * 2.8      * 3.2    *2.2    +1.7
Capital eupeoditure                                3.1      9.5      13.3       12.4   I.8    10.3
Foreign financig                                   2.4     o.0       8.2        8.0    11.4       8.5
rr60070     ffT70-7S     "75-80    Fmol
oar    rIDICAIoS
GOP growth rote CZ)                               0.2         -0.6           6.5        5.4
GNP pft capita growth rate (S)                     1.5        -3.0           4.0        2.8
nut available
eat applicable
la At mrket prices.
f   Em jute. tea. add ish ries.
May 31. 19M



-31-
aUI>s                  -
1 OF *A           3 nYhU     . CAII TL AL AMD  MT
(millieo IS$. in cet: prices)
NAXANCK OF Pn7e    n77                                                      Actual                                                 Cutia.
Net exports Of goDds                          -1,059    -903     470   -859    -966  -1.650  -1.322  -1.946  -1.623   -1.531   -I.766
lZports of gods                                344      72      405     490    610      722    711      626     666       U2       934
Imports of goeds                            -1.403  -1.275    -V5  -1.349 -1.556  -2.372 -2.533 -2.572 -2.309  -2.353  -2.700
Net exports of serices                            21     - 7    -29      -32      -21       4      15    -70    -112       -33       -88
Worirs' reittances                                35      29      60      113     143     210     379     624     628       552      442
Crrnt accout balance                          -10 0        2            -711    -L  t43  -1.4281   .59  -tI107  -1.012  tL
Direer private investmnt                          ..      ..      ..       ..
N. lean. (net)                                   493    497       235     393     420     530     513     50;     46        563      575
Grante   grant-like f[lve                        3Q      265     265      394     551     592    584    687       709       697      so
Other capital flowe (net)                        274      87      17    -39       -16     1"      307     255     164      -d2      -146
Chane in rserves C- - increase)                 -151      53    -a         25   -124      119      24     142   -242    -166         143
Tuternational reserves (end af period)           266     213     296     269      393     271     249     108    350        516      373
Rese"es as moths of import, of next yor          2.5     2.9     2.6     2.1      2.0     1.3     1.2     0.6     1.8      2.6       1.7
Actual
rr7   E76   m7Z   MA  nJs  nK  EsL  nsz  Ei
GROSS DISIUISINTS
Total grass disbursements                   519      563    268       435     477     630     562     548    549
Conce"sional                              458       533    244      401     456     600     541     468    483
Bilateral                               343      390     144      262     213     273    20       232     213
IDA                                     112      123       as     US    153       152     170    158    190
Other  ultilateral                        3       15      14       51      91    176       84      78      sO
Wen-coeesasiInal                           60       30      24       35      20      30      21      8       67
Nilaterial                               45       16       6        2       3      17       2       7      28
tURD
Other mltilateral                         -                                                 I -  -  -  -  1  31  12
Private                                  15       13      1S       32      17      13      19      42      26
N;T DI91URSCI(IS                                493      497     238      398     420    511      513     508     476
DMr oUrsTADINC
Total outstanding mn  disbursed           1.355    1.797   2.053    2.571  2.951   3.216   3.615   3.979  4.470
Official                                1.233    1.689  1.940    2.436  2,808   3,067   3.491   3.834  4.317
nru                                      55       55      55        55     55      55      55      55      55
IDA                                     255      33D     466       554    707     859  1,027   1,131  1.366
Other                                   923   1.254   1.419   1.II7  2.047   2.154   2.409  2.599   2.896
Private                                   122      lOU     113       135    142     149    124      145     153
Undisbursed debt                          1.019       948  1.016    1.335  1.659   1.719   2.104   2.619  2.773
JUT GUPTa
Total debt mervica                           31        a       59       69     95      94      91       7    123
Amortization                               21       66       30       Y7     57      50      50      40      74
Interest                                   10       22      23        .      38      43      42      47      49
lflfD debt srvice                             0        2       3         3      4       4       4       4       3
IDA debt ervice                               1        2       3         4      4       6       7        6       8
Average interest rate
Official                                  1.3      1.2     1.3       1.2    1.3     1.2     1.6     1.8    1.0
Private                                   2.3       L.9    7.2       6.2    6.1     6.9   10.8       A.6     8.6
Average maturity
official                                 35.1     42.9    3S.6      385   36.2    34.2   35.1    35.5    39.5
Private                                  15.3      11.3   11.0       9.5  14.8    19.2    7.7    11.7    12.9
RAIS GROUP EIPOSfI (a)
IrID DD/total DOO                             4         3       3        2      2       2       2       1       1
TBIS disbursementetotal diabursments          0        0        0        0      0       0       0       0       0
I3Rf debt sarriceltetal debt servite          0        2       6         5      4       4       4       4       3
IDI Dltotal DOD                              19        21      23       22     24      27      26      30      31
rDA disbureemnts/total diabursemrs           22       23       32       20     32      24      30      29      35
IDA debt serviceltotal debt service           3         3       5        5      5       6       7        9      6
TEY STRUCTURE                                       At June 193          TBID/D4 IZSIIC (At Jua 1931)    DD    aD
Maturity structure of debt                                             Ouatstading & Disbured              54.9 1.365.6
haturities due witbin 5 years                         15.1           Undisburerd                          -   1.005.0
Maturities due within 10 year                         29.4           Outstanding. intl. Vbdisborsed      54.9  2.370.8
Interest structure of debt
Interest due within 1 year                            1.4
not available
ASeAe
Septembr 2n. IMe



-32-                                ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BA8K GROUP OPERATIONS IS BAUGLADIESH /a
A. STATEMNT OF BANK LOANS AND DA CREDITS (as of Setetber 30. 1985)
Amounts
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              USS million /b
Number    Year  Borrover                Purpose              Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 38 credits fully disbursed                      54.90 1,315.66
527       1975 Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                -      62.00       0.40
542       1975 Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                 -      21.00       2.79
725       1977  Bangladesh Ihhuri Irrigation                  -      21.00       0.58
787       1978 Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II               -      21.00       0.78
864      1978 Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control            -      19.00       8.05
890      1979 Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries               -       6.00       2.07
912      1979 Bangladesh  Vocational Training                 -      25.00      11.87
921      1979 Bangladesh  Population & Family lealth II    -         32.00       8.91
934      1979 Bangladesh  Greater Ehulua Pover
Distribution                   -       28.00       4.42
955      1979 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                   -      25.00      11.40
964      1979 Bangladesh  Highways II                         -      10.00       4.07
1001       1980 Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II         -      20.00       7.73
1023       198D  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                 -      29.00        8.48
1032       1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation      -      20.00      10.45
1042       1980 Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation             -      11.00       4.89
1054       1 980 Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -       40.00      19.49
1065Lc     1980 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III           -      35.00      10.83
1091k      1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development         -      85.00       2.69
1096Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport              -      25.00      10.15
1117k      1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II         -      50.00        9.37
1124Lc     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV           -      16.00       2.76
11 40/e    1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                    -      18.00        9.86
1147/e    1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                -      40.00       7. 87
1184Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II       -      27.00      20.32
1204/c     1 982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer       -      15.00      13.56
1205/c    1982 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -         30.00      25.46
1215kc    1982 Bangladesh  Extension & Research II             -      27.00      17.84
1247/c    1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                    -      60.00      51.43
1254k      1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power            -      92.00       84.25
1262Lc     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification             -      40.00      19.62
1287/c     1 982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                -      68.00      54.40



-33-
AI-I
Page 2 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Banatladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                          (less cancellations)
Credit                                                              US$ Million /b
Number    Year  Borrover                Pu=oze               Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
130lLc     1983 Bangladesh  First Highvay Project
(Supplemental)                 -       6.00        2. 90
131 8Ic    1983 Bangladesh  Business Management
Education & Training           -        7.80       6.73
1321/c     1983 Bangladesh  Telecomunications III              -      35.00       26.21
1349Lc     1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnel
Management)                    -       12.00       9.29
1357/c     1983 BSaugladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation        -       28.50      25.14
1384Ic     1983 Bangladesh  Rural Development II               -     100.00       86.24
1396L      1983 Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II           -        8.10       7.21
:399Lc     1983 Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Itensification                -        20.00     18.28
1402/c /e  1983 Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -         23.00     18.69
144M0      1984 Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance         -       25.00     25.21
1455Lc     1984 Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research       -       24.50     24.79
1467k      1984 Bangladesh  Water Development Board            -       41.50      39.40
147lj     1984 Bangladesh  Import Program XII                 -      140.00     19.54
1477k      1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II         -       23.00     22.88
F022L      1984 Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehab. II         -       22.00      21. 93
14930L  /e  1984 Bangladesh  Technical Education               -       36.00      35.40
1504-0 Ic  1984 Bangladesh  SAP  725 BD                        -       10.00       9.28
1504-1  e  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1023 BD                        -        5.00       4.24
1504-2 Lc  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1247 BD                        -        7.00      6.05
1504-3 Lc  1984 Bangladesh  SAP 1262 BD                        -         8.00     7.34



-34-
Page 3 of 4
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bantladesb (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                           (less cancellations)
Credit                                                               US$ Million /b
Number    Year  Borrower                 Purnose              Bank      IDA    Uud isbursed
1574Lg. /d  1985  Bangladesh  Second Primary Education          -       78.00     78.00
1586/   d  1 985  Bangladesh  Second Gas Development            -      110.00    110.00
1587Lc     1985  Bangladesh  Flood Rehabilitation               -       30.00     28.68
1591. Id L  985  Bangladesh  Third Flood Control & Drainage             48.00     48 00
Total                                                     55.40  3,133.29  1,128.19
of vhich repaid                                          1.45      8.71     -
Total nov outstandinac                                    53.45  3.124.58
Amount sold                                              0.00      0.00
Total nov held by Bank and IDA                            53.45  3,124.58
Total undisbursed                                                          1.128.19
La  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Ezecutive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  The original principal of credits under replenishments 1 to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
/c  Credits funded out of IDA 6th and 7th Replenishments denominated in SDRs. The
principal amounts of fully disbursed Credits are U.S. dollar equivalent at
negotiation as shown in the President's Reports; the undisbursed amounts are
calculated at the rate of exchange in effect on September 30, 1985.
id  Not yet effective.



-35-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
/usrOfi/asadd/ceny/PRESRP/Iannex2/10-22-85
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVBSTMENTS (as of Sent. 30. 1985)
Fiscal                                                              Amounts i US$ Million
Year           Oblitor                Tvie of Business              Loan   Equity    Total
1969    Rarnaphuli Paper Mills Ltd.   Pulp & Paper Products          5.60    0.63     6.23
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                  1.20      0.36     1.56
198D    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.               Finance Company               -        1.05     1.05
1985     Bats Shoe Co.                 Sboe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.             and Tannery                  3.28     0.51      3.79
1985     Industrial Development
Leasing Co. of Bangladesh
(IDLC)                       Capital Market                1.95      0jj7   2.12
Total aross commitments                                            12.03      2.72    14.75
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales            6.26      0.63     6.89
Total now held by IFC                                                5.77     2.09     7.86
Total undisbursed                                                    5.77     0.08     5.85



-36-
ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
Nine months.
(b) Agency preparing the project:
BPDB
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA;
June 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 1984.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
November 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days following signature.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action:
None.



-37-
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Conditions of Effectiveness are:
(a) the execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and BPDB (paragraph 57);
(b) the appointment of consultants for project supervision
(paragraphs 59);
(c) reduction in the aggregate amount due to BPDB in
respect of electricity supplied to Government departments
to a level satisfactory to IDA (paragraph 76);
(d) appointment of the Project Director (paragraph 60); and
(e) the approval of the Project Proforma (paragraph 57).
Other Conditions are that:
(a) By July 31 of each year of the execution of the project,
BPDB would review, in consultation with IDA, its investment
program, together with proposed financing arrangements, and
make appropriate changes as would be agreed with IDA
(paragraph 49);
(b) BPDB would implement a training program in accordance with
an agreed timetable (paragraph 63);
(c) BPDB would implement a program for the reduction of
system losses (paragraph 68);
(d) Government and BPDB would take all necessary measures to
enable BPDB to achieve a rate of return on revalued net
fixed assets of at least 5X in FY86, 7.5% in FY87,
8.5% in FY88, 9% in FY89 and 10% in FY90 and thereafter
(paragraph 71);
(e) BPDB would revalue annually its fixed assets on the basis
of a methodology acceptable to IDA (paragraph 72);
(f) Government would carry out a study of subsidies provided to
the rural electrification program and bulk and retail
tariffs, taking into account long-run marginal costs,
promptly furnish to IDA the findtngs and recommendations of
the study and, by December 31, 1986 implement in phases
revised tariffs and other measures to be agreed with IDA
(paragraph 74);
(g) BPDB's would ensure that by June 30, 1988 (and thereafter)
accounts receivable would not exceed the revenue equivalent
of the preceeding three months' sales (paragraph 76);



-38-
ANNEX III
Pago 3
(h) BPDB would maintain a debt/equity ratio of 60i40
(paragraph 77);
(i) BPDB would provide to IDA the annual financial statements
and audit reports not later than nine months after the end
of each financial year (paragraph 79); and
(j) BPDB would insure or make arranfements for insurance of its
property and assets, consistent with appr4priate public
utility practices (paragraph 80).



BANGLADESH
POWERDEVELOPMENTBOAMD
TranmnsWm fi end DtnbAton ProJ*cl
urnaua maat  1na    ctaflaN
r.- [ '4 >-\  NW                               -          -  -
-                                           tUkY -X   i--
6?                   *g.t.~   wm%0        -    --
R~~~~~~ L.                     m.inrm......o
13                                     1
-,w
--~~~~~~~-
! NA '/I
ID






