Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12653
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1648-BD)
DECEMBER 30, 1993
Energy and Infrastructure Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   -    Taka (Tk)
Taka 1          -    Paisa 100
Taka I          -    US$0.033  /
Taka 1          -    US$0.0251?j
US$1            -    Tk 30.00 1/
US$1            =    Tk 39.80 21
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 gigawatt hour (GWh) -    1,000,000 kilowatt hours (kWh)
1 kilowatt hour (kWh) -    860.42 kcals
1 kilovolt (kVJ)      -    1,000 volts (V)
1 megawatt (MW)       -    1,000 kilowatts (kW)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -   Asian Development Bank
BPDB      -   Bangladesh Power Development Board
DESA      -   Dhaka Electric Supply Authority
GOB       -   Government of Bangladesh
IDA       -   International Development Association
LRMC      -   Long-Run Marginal Cost
ROR       -   Rate of Return
REB       -   Rural Electrification Board
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
UNDTCD    -   United Nations Department for Technical Cooperation for
Development
WtP       -  Willingness to Pay
SFYP      -   Second Five Year Plan
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ Conversion rate at appraisal.
2/ Current conversion rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Power Transmission and Distribution Prolect (Credit 1648-BD)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Power
Transmission and Distribution Project (Credit 1648-BD)" prepared by the South
Asia Regional Office, with Part II provided by the Borrower.
The project's major objective, the strengthening of Bangladesh's
power transmission and distribution systems, was effectively achieved and its
attendant economic benefits realized as planned, although some components
experienced a two-year  delay.   The  strengthening of planning,  management
capabilities and financial operations (particularly collections) and related
improvements in the financial performance of the Bangladesh Power Development
Board (BPDB) were not achieved and the rate of return on its investment based on
current tariffs is negative. The Region is addressing these issues in its policy
dialogue with the Government and is conditioning future lending in this sector
on implementation of a power sector reform program that would address the above
areas of unsatisfactory performance.
The performance of the project is rated as satisfactory, on the basis
of the successful physical construction of critically needed infrastructure. On
the other hand, its institutional development impact is rated as negligible and
the sustainability of benefits as unlikely based on BPDB's disappointing record
to date. The Project Completion Report covers critical project and institutional
issues thoroughly and comprehensively.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(Credit 1648-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETTON REPORT
Table of Contents
Paxe No.
Preface      .    .   .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .  i
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.      Project Identity   ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
2.      Background   ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
3.      Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . .    3
- Project Objectives .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
- Project Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
- Co-financing and Donor Co-ordination .  . . . . . . .    3
4.      Project Design and Organization .  . . . . . . . . . . .    4
- Project Design .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
- Project Organization .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
5.      Project Implementation   ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  5
- Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up  ...  .          .    .    5
- Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
- Transmission Component   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
- Distribution Component.                                          5
- Technical Assistance Component   . . . . . . . . . . .    5
- Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
- Project Costs.                                                   6
- Disbursement.                                                    6
- Credit Allocation.                                               7
6.      Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
- Project Objectives.                                              7
- Physical Results.                                                7
- Financial Performance.                                           7
- Project Economics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
- Impact of Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
- Environmental Impact .10
7.  Project Sustainability .10
8.  Bank's Performance .10
9.  Borrower's Performance .11
10.     Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
11.     Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
12.     Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
PART II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . .   13
PART III STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.     Related Bank Credits  .......  ...  ..  ..  ..   .   15
2.     Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
3.     Credit Disbursements  .......  ...  ..  ..  ..   .   17
4.     Project Implementation  .......  .  ..  ..  ..  .  .   18
5.     Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
6.     Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
7.     Status of Compliance with Covenants . . . . . . . . . .  24
8.     Use of Bank Resources .........  ....  ...   .   26
ANNEXES
1.     Financial Statements of BPDB showing comparison between appraisal
estimates and actuals ................. .  27



i
BANGLADESH
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1648-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Power
Transmission and Distribution Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1648-BD
in the amount of SDR 52.3 million (US$ 56.0 million equivalent) was approved
on January 14, 1986. The credit closed on December 31, 1992. The last
disbursement was made on November 2, 1992; all subsequent expenditures under
the credit for which applications were received were applied towards recovery
of the initial deposit of the special account. The undisbursed balance of SDR
11.8 million (equivalent to US$ 16.7 million) was canceled.
The PCR was prepared by the Energy and Infrastructure Division,
Country Department 1, Asia Region.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the IDA's supervision
mission of the ongoing power projects in November 1992 and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit and Project
Agreements, supervision reports, and correspondence between IDA and the
Borrower. The conclusions of this report have been communicated to the
cofinancers of the project, UNDP. The Borrower prepared Part II of the PCR.
The Borrower's comments on Parts I and III of the PCR have been incorporated
in the report.






ii
BANGLADESH
POWER AND TRANSMISSION DISTRIBUTIONPROJECT
(CREDIT 1648-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
(i)       The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), established in 1972,
has been responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of
electricity in Bangladesh. However, since the creation of the Rural
Electrification Board (REB) in 1977, consumers in some rural areas have been
served by REB, and subsequently, with the formation of The Dhaka Electric
Supply Authority (DESA) in 1991, distribution of electricity to all consumers
in the greater Dhaka area is being carried out by DESA.
(ii)      In January 1983, BPDB initiated a comprehensive Power System Master
Plan (PSMP) study to assess its generation, transmission and distribution
investment requirements. The study concluded that along with required
investments in generation, the transmission and distribution system needed to
be developed in an optimal manner; accordingly, besides augmenting generation
capacity, urgent reinforcements of the transmission network and grid sub-
stations would be required to improve the system reliability that was
typically characterized by unstable voltages, long outages, and high system
losses. Thus, in view of the growing system demand, IDA and GOB's agreed
strategy for the power sub-sector accorded high priority to : (a) address
system losses, (b) develop the transmission network, and (c) improve the low
voltage distribution system. In this context the Power Transmission and
Distribution Project was designed to expand BPDB's transmission and
distribution network while enhancing its system reliability. The project was
IDA's fifth lending operation in the power sub-sector and was cofinanced by
UNDP.
Ob1ectives
(iii)     The project's objectives were to: (a) expand and reinforce BPDB's
transmission and distribution systems to meet the forecast load at least cost,
(b) stabilize system voltage, (c) increase system reliability, and (d) reduce
transmission losses. Additionally, technical assistance was provided to: (i)
strengthen BPDB's financial management functions aimed at improving its
financial services and accounting procedures, (ii) improve its financial
viability through a tariff study, and (iii) extend its training facilities.
Implementation Experience
(iv)      The project's physical implementation was reasonably satisfactory,
and all principal components of the project were satisfactorily completed.
However, the project had to be extended twice mainly because of delays in the
distribution component's implementation mainly due procurement problems and
coordinating the material supply with the construction program. The
implementation of the TA components to provide training and other institution
building efforts was not satisfactory.



iii
Prolect Results
(v)      The project was successful in meeting its principal objectives of
reinforcing BPDB's transmission and distribution facilities. All principal
physical components of the project were satisfactorily completed. However, on
account of the long time taken by COB/BPDB to ammend the electricity
regulations and procedures that would permit BPDB to work on live lines, BPDB
could neither procure the necessary equipment nor get the needed training.
(vi)     BPDB's institutional and financial performance has been
disappointing, and most of the relevant credit covenants have not been
complied with.
Proiect Sustainability
(vii)     The project is a part of BPDB's least cost expansion plan.
Throughout its economic life the project is expected to maintain its net
benefits that include: (a) helping to expand and reinforce the power
generation transmission and distribution systems and expand the rural
electrification systems; and (b) promoting the use of natural gas as a
substitute for imported oil for power generation.
Findings and Lessons Learned
(viii)    The main lessons to be learned from the project are:
(a) in order to ensure timely implementation, closer, more rigid
monitoring of procurement-related activities is necessary.
GOB's sudden decision to ban import of meters adversely affected
project implementation; necessary recourse to the legal remedies
should be taken in future (paras. 5.08, 5.09);
(b) greater focus needs to be given to the institution building and
technical assistance aspects. Closer coordination among donors
is necessary to bring about the desirable institutional changes
(paras. 7.02, 8.02);
(c) BPDB's tariffs were not increased in conformity with the agreed
revenue covenant. A more realistic assessment of BPDB's
financial position during appraisal would have been desirable
(para 6.05);
(d) the targets set for accounts receivable and system losses were
overly optimistic and not adequately supported by action plans,
which could be closely monitored and revised as necessary during
project implementation (para 6.05);
(e) in retrospect, IDA failed to appreciate the significance of
labor resistance to efforts to reduce systems losses and took
too narrow an approach to institutional reforms.



BANGLADESH
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1648-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identitv
Name                 Power Transmission and Distribution Project
Credit Number         1648-BD
RVP Unit              South Asia
Country              Bangladesh
Sector          :    Energy
2. Background
2.01        The Bangladesh Power Development Board (BPDB), established in 1972
as a statutory Government corporation, has been responsible for the
generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity in Bangladesh. BPDB
was the sole authority responsible for these functions until 1977, when the
Rural Electrification Board (REB) was created and assumed responsibility for
the distribution of electricity in rural areas through a system of rural
electric cooperatives. Subsequently, in 1991, the Dhaka Electric Supply
Authority (DESA) was formed and assumed BPDB's distribution function to all
consumers in the greater Dhaka area. All three agencies (BPDB, DESA and REB)
are under the direct supervision of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources (MEMR).
2.02        During the late 70s, petroleum imports absorbed a significant
portion of Bangladesh's export earnings; improving the critical balance of
payment situation largely depended on development of the energy sector.
Bangladesh's principal commercially exploitable energy resources consist of
substantial reserves of relatively low-cost natural gas (currently estimated
at 15 tcf) and limited hydropower potential (estimated at 1500 GWh/year).
Early development of the country's energy resources, particularly natural gas,
was therefore accorded high priority. Accordingly, energy development in
general, and oil and gas exploration in particular, were designated a "core
priority" in the Government's Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) during 1981-1985
which earmarked 19% of budgetary outlays for the energy sector, of which 70%
was allocated to the power subsector and 302 to the hydrocarbons subsector.
Furthermore, as the country is divided into two separate zones (East and West)
by the Bramhaputra/Ganges river systems, and both natural gas and hydropower
are located in the country's eastern region, power generation in the east is
based on natural gas and hydro-electric potential, whereas in the western zone
power generation relied entirely on imported oil. Thus, the main thrust of
GOB's energy policy included: (a) exploration and development of oil and gas
to substitute imported fuels and thereby save foreign exchange, (b) improving
reliability of electricity supply and efficiency of the power system
operation, (c) achieving a reasonable balance in energy supply between the
eastern and western zones of Bangladesh, (d) extending electricity supply to
rural areas to support agriculture and promote rural development, and (e)
improving efficiency of use and increasing availability of traditional energy.



- 2 -
2.03        At the time of appraisal IDA's principal assistance objectives in
the energy sector were to support GOB to: (a) expand the production and use of
natural gas to substitute for imported oil, (b) strengthen planning and
management capacity of key sector institutions and improve their operating
efficiency, (c) pursue economically efficient pricing policy to promote more
efficient energy use and to generate resources for energy development
investments, and (d) promote further oil/gas exploration and gas based
exports. Prior to the project's appraisal, IDA had supported GOB's energy
development strategy with six lending operations: three in the power sector
and three in the hydrocarbon area. The total amount of IDA credit committed
to these operations was equivalent to about US$ 296 million, which represented
about 15% of allocations given to the energy sector under GOB's SYFP.
2.04        IDA's lending strategy for the power subsector has been to: (a)
expand generation, transmission and distribution capacity to meet forecast
demand at least cost; (b) substitute gas-based generation for generation based
on imported petroleum products; (c) improve the reliability of electricity
supply and the efficiency of power system operations; (d) extend access to
electricity supply in rural areas; and (e) strengthen the management and
finance situation of BPDB and REB. In accord with this strategy, IDA and GOB
agreed that priority should be given to: (a) the development of gas-fired and
hydro-electric power plants, (b) the reduction of system losses, (c) the
development of efficient transmission and distribution systems including the
rural electrification systems, and (d) the financial objectives and practices
of BPDB. In January 1983, BPDB initiated a comprehensive Power System Master
Plan (PSMP) study to assess its generation, transmission and distribution
investment requirements. Financed by ADB/UNDP, ACRES International of Canada
was appointed advisor to assist BPDB in developing the Plan. The study
concluded that along with required investments in generation, the transmission
and distribution system needed to be developed in an optimal manner;
accordingly, besides augmenting generation capacity, urgent reinforcements of
the transmission network and grid sub-stations would be required to improve
the system reliability that was typically characterized by unstable voltages,
long outages, and high system losses. Accordingly, it was also agreed that
additional efforts would be required to: (a) address system losses, (b)
continue improvement in BPDB's maintenance and operational procedures and
management, (c) develop the transmission system to allow the substitution of
energy generated from gas-fired plants for that generated from thermal
stations using petroleum products, (d) improve transmission and low-voltage
distribution systems to supply new consumers and generally improve the quality
of supply, and (e) electrify new rural areas and expand the supply system in
already electrified areas.
2.05        IDA's involvement in the power subsector started with a credit of
US$ 28 million for the greater Khulna Distribution Project (Credit No. 934-BD)
to help finance rehabilitation, reinforcement and expansion of the
distribution networks in the greater Khulna area. Thereafter, following the
Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Credit No. 1254-BD), the Rural Electrification
Project (Credit No. 1262-BD), and the Second Rural Electrification Project
(Credit No. 1633-BD), the Power Transmission and Distribution Project (Credit
No. 1648-BD) which was cofinanced by UNDP, was IDA's fifth lending operation
in the power subsector. Subsequent lending operations are listed in Part III,
Section 1. A Power Rehabilitation Project and a Second East-West
Interconnector Project are under preparation, but their timing will depend on
the Government's ability to address the sectoral issues discussed in para
6.05.



-3-
3. Proiect Objectives and Description
3.01        Proiect Obiectives:  The project's objectives were to: (a) expand
and reinforce BPDB's transmission and distribution systems to meet the
forecast load at least cost, (b) stabilize system voltage, (c) increase system
reliability, and (d) reduce transmission losses. Additionally, technical
assistance was provided to: (i) strengthen BPDB's financial management
functions to improve its financial functions and accounting procedures, (ii)
improve its financial viability through a tariff study, and (iii) extend its
training facilities.
3.02        Project Description:  The project's main components as defined in
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were as follows:
(a) erection of about 582 km of 132 kV lines;
(b) extension of sixteen 132-kV substations to accommodate new lines
and installation of two 132/33-kV transformers, each of 20 MVA, in
two of these substations;
(c) extension and reinforcement of the low voltage distribution
network in 14 towns, involving the erection of about 24 km of 33-
kV, 140 km of 11-kV, 210 km of 6.35-kV, and 230 km of 400 volt
lines, 12 substations of 33-kV, 5 MVA each, and 131 distribution
substations of 11-kV of various sizes;
(d) installation of three phase and single phase meters and metering
equipment for a loss reduction program; and
(e) technical assistance for: (i) design and construction supervision,
(ii) improving BPDB's commercial and financial functions, (iii)
assisting BPDB in reinforcing its planning units and recommending
a rehabilitation program to reduce system losses, (iv) undertaking
a study for setting tariffs based on long run marginal costs,
investigating the implications of various subsidies, and
developing a methodology for revaluation of BPDB's fixed assets,
and (v) training BPDB staff in the maintenance and erection of
distribution lines. Following the major flood in mid-September
1988, the project scope was expanded to include
repair/replacement of damaged BPDB facilities. These were to be
funded from the anticipated unutilized portion of the credit.
Subsequently, in January 1990, the project scope was further
expanded to include consultancy services to assist BPDB in the
assessment of the rehabilitation and expansion needs of its
existing grid system and the preparation of associated bid
documentation.
3.03        Cofinancing and Donor Co-ordination:  The project was cofinanced
by UNDP which provided USS 3.0 million for consultancy services to undertake
studies and implement a program to reduce both technical and non-technical
losses (para 3.02(e)(ii) and 3.02(e)(iii)) for which the United Nations
Department for Technical Cooperation for Development (UNDTCD) was the
executing agency, and for a tariff study (para 3.03(e)(iv)) for which IDA was
the executing agency.



- 4-
4. Proiect Design and Organization
4.01        Project Design:  The project was designed to improve the power
transmission and distribution systems' performance to cater to the existing
and expected load growth in an economic manner. The transmission system
design was supported by appropriate load flow and other technical studies.
The distribution system development was planned by extensive collection of
field data using local consultants and undertaking the required network
analysis. Both transmission and distribution components were targeted to
remove power flow bottlenecks (which were gradually increasing in number and
complexity due to load growth) and to stabilize system voltages, reduce
technical losses and improve the reliability of supply. Meters and other
related equipment were to be procured as part of a program to reduce non-
technical losses.
4.02        The design of project components was not of a complex nature. At
the time the project was formulated, the three transmission lines--Ishurdi to
Thakurgaon, Bheramara to Barisal and Shahjibazar to Chattak--were already
operating under capacity constraints. The voltage at Thakurgaon had recorded
values as low as 114 kV (from a nominal value of 132 kV), costly thermal
generation had to be resorted to at Barisal due to the limitations of the
transmission link, and major loads consisting of fertilizer, cement and paper
factories amounting to about 35 MW at Fenchuganj and Chattak had to be
supplied by captive generation plant in place of less expensive grid power.
Provision for a second circuit had been made during the original construction
of the three transmission lines, and thus the logical step of providing added
capacity was undertaken with the stringing of the second circuit under the
project. The additional transmission capacity was expected to lower operating
expenses, particularly by reducing costly fuel-oil operated generation,
reducing system losses and increasing reliability of service.
4.03        The improvements in the distribution system consisted of
strengthening and expanding the 33, 11 and 0.4 kV networks in 14 selected
towns. Detailed drawings of the existing distribution system were prepared
and the spacial incidence of expected new load estimated. The new
developments required were thereafter designed to enable the networks to meet
forecast load growth economically over the next 10 to 15 years.
4.04        In 1988, while the project was under implementation, a major flood
affecting some 84% of the land area of the country caused extensive damage to
transmission and distribution facilities. To address this emergency, the
project scope was amended and US$ 3 million allocated to undertake major
elements of the repair work. This component was largely used for the
procurement of poles, conductors and energy meters which required urgent
replacement.
4.05        Proiect Organization:  BPDB was responsible for implementation of
the project. Both foreign and local consultants assisted BPDB in the design
and supervision of the project works. The transmission component was carried
out with consultancy support provided by Electricity de France International
(EdF), the consultant selected after inviting and evaluating proposals from
short-listed firms. Seven local consultants were engaged for the distribution
network development in the 14 towns under EdF's supervision.
4.06        Supply and erect contracts were issued for the 132 kV grid
substation extensions and the construction of the 33/11 kV distribution
substations. For the rest of the work BPDB undertook the procurement of



- 5 -
materials and had the work executed by local contractors. All project
components were carried out under the supervision of the foreign and/or local
consultants.
4.07        In addition to the planning and implementation of the physical
components of the project, technical assistance programs were arranged for the
development of BPDB's commercial and financial functions, in particular
reduction of the high level of system losses. These programs were arranged
under cofinancing arrangements with UNDP (para 3.03).
4.08        EdF was also retained to study BPDB's future transmission
development requirements, including those of the western region of the
country. The necessary system studies were conducted, projects identified and
bid documents prepared for transmission and grid substation developments. In
addition, a distribution system improvement study was also carried out by EdF
for the greater Khulna region and tender documents prepared for the
recommended works.
5. Proiect Implementation
5.01        Credit Effectiveness and Prolect Start-up:  Although IDA's Board
approved the credit on January 14, 1986, it did not become effective until
October 14, 1986. The delay was primarily due to GOB/BPDBs' failure to comply
with the credit effectiveness conditions. These included delays in: (a)
execution of the subsidiary loan agreement (SLA), (b) appointment of
supervisory consultants, (c) approval of project proformas by GOB, and (d)
BPDB's failure to reduce its accounts receivables from GOB to 4.5 months of
sales.
5.02        Implementation Schedule:  Overall, the project's physical
implementation was reasonably satisfactory. The project was originally
expected to be completed on December 31, 1990 but needed to be extended first
to December 31, 1991 and then to March 30, 1992. The credit was closed on
this date expect for a limited number of contracts, for which the credit
closing date was extended up to December 31, 1992. All principal physical
components of the project were satisfactorily completed.
5.03        Transmission Component:  The supply of material and construction
work on the transmission line and grid substation component proceeded on
schedule without major problems or delays. In fact, due to the urgency of the
work a section of the transmission network envisaged under the project,
viz.,the Bogra-Saidpur section (143 km), was undertaken by BPDB, using its own
resources, prior to credit effectiveness. Consequently, this section was
taken out of the project scope, and IDA financing of transmission lines
decreased from 582 km to 439 km. The balance items of the transmission
component were completed by early 1991.
5.04        Distribution Component:  This component did not proceed as
smoothly as the transmission component, mainly due to delays in the
procurement of materials (para 5.08) and problems in coordinating the material
supply with the construction program. In future, for projects of this nature,
greater emphasis should be placed on the coordination of procurement and
construction plans to resolve impending bottlenecks in a timely manner.
5.05        Technical Assistance Component:  While the design and
construction supervision (para 3.02(e)(i)) TA components financed by IDA were
implemented satisfactorily, those for improving BPDB's commercial functions



and loss reduction (paras 3.02(e)(ii) and 3.02(e)(iii)) financed by UNDP had
less than expected results. UNDTCD, the executing agency for these
subcomponents, appointed Korea Power Engineering Company (KOPEC) as
consultants. The contract with KOPEC was terminated in January 1988 because
of inter alia its failure to: (a) mobilize adequate manpower resources, (b)
provide an expatriate commercial manager as a counterpart to BPDB's General
Manager (Commercial), and (c) provide adequate management and guidance to BPDB
personnel in the installation of HT meters; KOPEC had expressed its inability
to comply with its contractual obligations in accord with the Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) signed with BPDB. Subsequently, the work was completed by
the Electricity Services Board of Ireland (ESBI). Although a number of
reports and recommendations were prepared by both consultants, the desired
results were not forthcoming due to BPDB's inability to translate plans to
action. A special unit headed by a General Manager was created in May 1988 to
strengthen the loss reduction program. This resulted only in partial success,
the activities of the unit being restricted to limited monitoring and the
procurement and dissemination of equipment rather than the follow-up of the
field activities.
5.06        UNDP had also financed a study of BPDB's tariff structure (para
3.02(e)(iv)); IDA as the executing agency for this study, appointed Coopers
and Lybrand, UK (C&L) as consultants. The study identified deficiencies of
the existing tariff structure, in particular the presence of an excessive
number of tariff categories, tariff rates below economic costs for quite a few
of the categories, significant cross-subsidization and absence of any load
management effort that led to costly peak generation. Based on the C&L's
recommendations, BPDB carried out a tariff restructuring; however the increase
in the individual tariff levels were less than proposed.
5.07         Implementation of the training component (para. 3.02(e)(v)) to
train BPDB staff on the maintenance of distribution lines by supplying
equipment and training personnel on 'live line' repair work could not be
carried out. This component had to be dropped because procurement could not
proceed due to GOB's inordinate delays in making amendments to the electricity
regulations necessary to allow such work to be undertaken.
5.08        Procurement:  The transmission facilities were procured as
scheduled, enabling timely completion of the work. The procurement under the
distribution component was much less satisfactory and erratic. The average
time taken for effecting procurement awards under this component was 12 months
from bid opening, with some tenders delayed as much as 20 months. In
addition, there were delays in initiating procurement action on the material
requirements. In works of this nature requiring a large variety of small
value materials, efficient procurement scheduling is a critical aspect of
avoiding implementation delays and should have been followed.
5.09        Procurement of single phase meters was delayed for a considerable
period due to a court injunction based on a government regulation that had
banned import of meters in order to promote domestic meters manufacturers.
GOB has since ensured that such restrictions will not apply in the case of
projects funded by IDA and other donors.
5.10        Project Costs:  The total project cost as estimated during
appraisal was US$ 82.9 million. The final project cost is about USs 81.4
million as shown in Table 5A in Part III.
5.11        Disbursement:  The estimated and actual disbursement of the Credit
are given in Part III, Section 3. An outstanding credit balance of SDR 11.8



million (equivalent to US $ 16.7 million as of April 30, 1993) was canceled.
5.12        Credit Allocation:  The original and actual disbursements for the
Credit are shown in Part III, Section 5B. Since the changes in project scope
(para 3.02) were effected late in the implementation stage of the project and
since the amounts required for the additional components were small and could
be accommodated within the financing available. The credit allocation was not
formally revised, although the allocation for consultants in Category 3 was
exceeded due to additional work carried out at a later stage of project
implementation.
6. Proiect Results
6.01        Prolect Objectives:  The project was successful in meeting its
principal objectives of reinforcing transmission and distribution facilities.
The project's principal physical components were all satisfactorily completed.
However, on account of the long time taken by GOB/BPDB to amend the
electricity regulations and procedures that would permit BPDB to work on live
lines, BPDB could neither procure necessary equipment nor get the needed
training. On the institutional side BPDB continues to remain weak despite
continuous support from the donors. The technical assistance component
designed for the project provided some limited support towards institution
building of BPDB. Further actions supported by IDA and other donors in
subsequent lending operations include an ADB-financed consumer billing and
computerization program for BPDB/DESA and an ODA-financed institutional reform
study, but these too have not yielded satisfactory results. As a follow-up to
the institutional reform study, with the assistance of ODA-financed
consultants (C&L), an Action Plan for Performance Improvement (APPI) is being
implemented which aimed at inter alia decentralizing the distribution
functions primarily to reduce systems losses and accounts receivable and
improve collections; a key element of this plan was the creation of the Dhaka
Electricity Supply Authority (DESA) to take over the responsibility of
electricity distribution in the Greater Dhaka area from BPDB. In November
1990, in view of BPDB's rapidly deteriorating financial performance, IDA and
ADB jointly proposed a financial management strengthening package which is
currently under review by the Government.
6.02        Physical Results:  The project's physical targets were mostly
achieved as planned, and as such its major objectives were accomplished.
However, project completion was delayed by more than two years, mainly because
of delays in procurement of distribution materials and lack of adequate
coordination of material supply with the construction program.
6.03        Financial Performance:  A cash generation covenant agreed under
the Ashuganj Thermal Power Project (Cr. 1254-BD) was never complied with,
mainly because of: (i) totally inadequate tariff increases, (ii) BPDB's
limited success in reducing systems losses, (iii) the unexpected 40% increase
in oil prices from 1982 that BPDB was not allowed to pass on to consumers, and
(iv) a higher than expected annual investment program. However, during the
early 1980s there were some actions that helped BPDB financially. These
included: (i) implementation of the East/West interconnector that decreased
the average fuel cost from Tk 0.76/kWh in FY82 to Tk 0.48/kWh in FY83, and
(ii) GOB's agreement to restructure BPDB's capital to maintain a 60/40 debt
equity ratio thereby reducing its debt service obligations from FY82.
6.04        During this project's processing, the continued use of a cash
generation covenant was considered inappropriate due to (i) the difficulty in



- 8 -
reaching agreement on BPDB's investment program and (ii) the sharp increase
assumed in BPDB's forecast investment program. In order to provide a more
dependable measure for formulating long-term financial policy, a rate of
return covenant was agreed for BPDB during negotiations. The other major
agreements with GOB on BPDB's financial performance were on systems losses and
accounts receivables. The table below compares the agreed targets with
achieved levels.
FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90  FY91  FY92 y
(i)    Rate of Return
Agreed level               5.0   7.5   8.5   9.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
Revised Agreed level                          2.0   4.0   6.0   7.0
Achieved  2/               0.0   1.7   2.1   2.5   2.6   2.4  -0.1
(ii)   Accounts receivable
Agreed level               3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
Achieved                   6.3   7.4   7.4   6.9   4.0   6.1   6.2
(iii)  Systems losses
Agreed level              36.0  34.0  32.0  30.0  28.0  26.0  24.0
Achieved                  31.0  38.0  42.4  42.0  39.0  41.0  32.2
6.05        The appraisal estimates (Annex 1) on which the covenants were
based were overly optimistic. During implementation, BPDB's operations were
characterized by: (a) low earning capacity, resulting in inadequate internal
cash generation implying total dependence on external donors and GOB to
finance investment, and (b) poor liquidity leading to inability to service its
debt to GOB. Two critical variances account for the wide shortfalls between
the appraisal estimates and actual results. These are: (a) system losses: in
contrast to the projected reduction of two percentage points per year from 36%
for FY86 to 24Z for FY92, BPDB's system losses often exceeded 40%; and (b)
electricity generation and sales: against appraisal estimates wherein these
were assumed to grow at an average annual rate of 13% and 16%, respectively,
during FY86-92, whereas actual growth rates averaged 12% and 10%,
respectively. These two variances were mainly responsible for BPDB's low
levels of operating revenues; in FY92, BPDB's operating revenues amounted to
Tk 12 billion, compared with the appraisal estimate of Tk 22 billion. On the
other hand, the actual operating expenses were comparable with appraisal
estimates. As a result, BPDB continued to make losses throughout the entire
implementation period and was therefore unable to comply with the rate of
return covenant agreed under the credit.   Subsequently, even when the target
RORs were revised in accordance with the ESAC and significantly reduced,
except for FY89, BPDB could not comply with the agreed targets. Furthermore,
the anticipated improvements in accounts receivable and collection performance
failed to materialize; instead, BPDB/DESA's management of consumer accounts
was deplorable with cash collection in recent years often less than 80% of
current billings and accounts receivable at the end of FY92 at eight months of
yearly sales.
6.06        In view of BPDB's continuing poor performance, in October 1990 IDA
and ADB advised GOB that neither institution would consider new lending for
the power sector pending its improved performance. Further, on account of the
failure of GOB/BPDB to take all actions necessary to enable DESA to commence
jj  After separation of DESA (with effect from October 1, 1991).
?/ Starting FY89 the RORs incLusive of F.E. losses and interst on short-term loans were at 2.9%, -0.7%, 0.8%
and -5.2% respectiveLy for FYs 89, 90, 91 and 92.



commercial operation by the agreed date (originally scheduled for July 1, 1990
and later deferred to September 1, 1991), disbursements under Credit 2016-BD
were suspended as of September 6, 1991. Subsequently, in view of BPDB's
compliance with the conditions of lifting of suspension, the suspension was
lifted in February 1993. Given the magnitude of inherent sector
inefficiencies and the sector's large capital requirements, IDA together with
other donors has been persuing an intensive dialogue with GOB over the last
few years, focussing on the need for GOB to undertake basic reforms to address
fundamental deficiencies underlying the sector's continued unsatisfactory
performance. IDA's support for new power projects will depend on GOB's
formulating and initiating implementation of a broad power sector reform
program. Such a reform program would need to address the issue of sector
regulation, autonomy/commercialization/corporatization of public utilities,
private participation, and energy efficiency and conservation.
6.07        Proiect Economics.  The project's location, sizes and types of
transmission and distribution lines and substations were part of BPDB's least
cost expansion program. Since the project made up an integral part of BPDB's
FY87-92 investment program, its benefits to consumers could not be separated
from those expected to be created by the rest of BPDB's capital expenditure
during the same period, especially because the project consisted of lines and
sub-stations that could not produce benefits without associated generation.
In such circumstances, it was appropriate to carry out a 'time-slice' analysis
of the entire investment program.
6.08        During appraisal, the project's economic internal rate of return
(EIRR) was estimated at: (a) 9.6% using tariff revenues as a proxy for the
project's benefits, and (b) 12.7% using consumers' willingness to pay (WtP)
for incremental electricity sales. Currently, the average tariff is only
about 40% of the LRMC calculated at a discount rate of 12%. The EIRR, with a
'time-slice' methodology using actual cost figures and better estimates of
benefits and on a tariff revenue basis, is currently estimated at (-)10x.
This confirms that the current average tariff is way below the LRMC. The
corresponding appraisal estimate of 9.6% was overly optimistic in assuming a
much higher growth rate and too low a loss ratio (of 24% in FY92, while actual
losses averaged 362 during the period and BPDB/DESA's combined losses exceeded
40% in FY92). However, this revenue-based measure of the EIRR is, by its
nature, more a measure of the adequacy (or inadequacy in this case) of tariffs
than of the true economic merit of the investment program. Using consumers'
WtP, a more appropriate measure of project benefits, the EIRR is currently
estimated at 20.8%, which compares well with the corresponding appraisal
estimate of 12.7%. The major deficiancies in the estimation of EIRR (using
the consumers' WtP methodology) during appraisal were: (a) extreemely
optimistic assumptions, (b) underestimation of consumers' WtP (refer Part III,
Section 6) which resulted in more than offsetting the impact of (a), and (c)
availability of sophisticated computers today in comparison with calculators
that were used during appraisal; the simulations necessary for an appropriate
'time-slice' analyses can be done much better today than was possible in the
mid-1980s using calculators.
6.09        Impact of Project:  The project made a significant impact on the
expansion and reinforcement needs of Bangladesh's transmission and
distribution systems, which was crucial to meet the increasing demand
projections reflecting growing economic activity. Additionally, the project
helped to stabilize system voltage, increase system reliability and reduce
transmission losses. However, there was no impact on reduction of overall
system losses, and operational/financial performance continued to deteriorate
unabated.



- 10 -
6.10        Environmental Impact:  The project's transmission component had no
adverse environmental effect since it consisted of stringing a second circuit
on existing lines and the extension of existing substations. The distribution
component involved the extension/rehabilitation of distribution networks in 14
towns, and no adverse impact on environment and resettlement occurred. Loss
of agricultural land was also minimal.
7. Proiect Sustainability
7.01        The project is part of BPDB's least cost expansion plan.
Throughout its economic life the project is expected to maintain its net
benefits that include: (a) expanding and reinforcing the power generation,
transmission and distribution systems and expanding the rural electrification
systems; and (b) promoting the use of natural gas as a substitute for imported
oil for power generation.
7.02        To improve the benefits further, emphasis needs to be given to the
fundamental deficiencies undermining the sector's overall performance. Within
a broader framework of power sector reform, GOB/BPDB need to focus on
continued institutional development, management accountability and control,
and tariff policy (structure and levels). IDA's further support to this
sector is contingent upon GOB's initiating implementation of a broad power
sector reform program.
8. Bank's Performance
8.01        Through this project, the Bank made a positive contribution to the
physical development of Bangladesh's power system. Bank's performance
throughout the implementation phase was satisfactory. On the technical
aspects, the consultancy services provided by EdF, C&L had significant impacts
in developing BPDB's technical competence and the associated institution
building efforts. However, in the areas of overall institutional/financial
performance, BPDB remains weak while IDA and other donors continue their
efforts to identify and assist with appropriate remedial measures.
8.02        Prior to the project's identification, a Greater Dhaka
Distribution Project Phase II project to be jointly financed with ADB/ODA was
under consideration and was included in IDA's FY85 lending program. Because
of inadequate coordination with the ADB, IDA had to drop out of the
distribution project and give prioirity to the preparation and processing of
this transmission and distribution project (Credit 1648-BD). These events
generated frictions with the ADB and confusion in IDA's relations with
GOB/BPDB.
8.03        The following lessons can be learned from the experience gained
during processing and implementation of the project:
(a) in order that a situation similar to that explained in para 8.02
does not recur in future, greater emphasis should be accorded to
donor coordination;
(b) closer monitoring of procurement-related activities is necessary.
Also, GOB's sudden decision to ban import of meters put some
implementation aspects in jeopardy. The agreed legal
conditionalities should be enforced more vigorously so that in
future, governments are restrained from taking similar decisions
that could affect project implementation;



- 11 -
(c) The targets set for accounts receivable and system losses were
never attained although these were relaxed during subsequent
lending operations. Apparently, the initial targets set were
overly optimistic and not adequately supported by actions plans,
which could be closely monitored and revised as necessary during
project implementation; appraisal assessments need to be more
realistic;
(d) BPDB's tariffs were not increased in conformity with the agreed
revenue covenant. During the subsequent lending operation (ESAC)
these targets had to be significantly reduced. A better
assessment of BPDB's financial position during appraisal would
have been desirable;
(e) greater focus needs to be given to the institution building and
technical assistance aspects. Closer coordination among donors is
necessary to bring about the desirable institutional changes; and
(f) in retrospect, IDA failed to appreciate the significance of labor
resistance to efforts to reduce systems losses and took too narrow
an approach to institutional reforms.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.01        BPDB was the executing agency for the project.  In terms of
applying its technical competence, BPDB's performance was satisfactory.
However, protracted delays in completing procurement processes delayed the
project by more than two years. Because of BPDB's inability to carry out
payment of arrear dues to custom authorities, imported materials procured
under project financing could not be cleared promptly, thus causing delays in
project implementation. Additionally, GOB's sudden decision to ban import of
meters stalled project implementation. Also, BPDB failed to make use of the
technical assistance provided to reduce losses and improve its commercial and
financial functions.
9.02        BPDB's institutional and financial performance continued to
deteriorate steadily. Although most of the covenants agreed under the project
were relaxed under subsequent lending operations in the same subsector, BPDB
was seldom in compliance. Furthermore, because of BPDBs' inability to manage
the sector effectively, serious deficiencies in BPDB's overall financial
management, control and accounting practices have been identified. In view of
this as well as BPDB's sharply deteriorating performance during 1990, IDA and
ADB have jointly proposed a financial management strengthening package to
GOB/BPDB and emphasized that future lending operations to BPDB would be
contingent upon BPDB improving its performance and implementing the proposed
program.
10. Proiect Relationship
10.01       IDA's relationship with the Government and BPDB on the project has
generally been good.
11. Consulting Services
11.01       A considerable amount of consultancy services was included vithin
the project scope included under the technical assistance (TA) component. IDA
financed two, and UNDP three, of the five TA sub-components (para 3.02(e)(i) -



- 12 -
(e)(v)). Salient features of the consultancy work were: (a) sub-component
(e)(i) that was financed by IDA, and BPDB appointed EdF as supervisory
consultants and Motor Columbus as consultants for the design of the 132-kV
sub-stations (financed through savings from the Greater Khulna Power
Distribution Project (Credit 934-BD)). The consultants' performances were
satisfactory, (b) sub-components (e)(ii) and (e)(iii) were financed by UNDP.
UNDTCD as executing agency, initially retained KOPEC, and subsequently, in
view of KOPEC's inability to carry out their contractual obligations (para
5.05), replaced KOPEC by ESBI. Because of BPDB's failure to translate the
recommended plans to actions, the consultancy work was partially successful,
(c) sub-component (e)(iv) was also financed by UNDP and, IDA as the executing
agency had appointed C&L as the consultants. While BPDB did restructure its
tariff in line with the recommendations, its failure to increase individual
tariffs to the recommended levels again resulted in only partial success of
the consultancy effort, and (d) sub-component (e)(v) was financed by IDA and
BPDB appointed EdF as consultants. However, because of GOB/BPDBs' failure to
change the electricity regulations appropriately so that necessary training on
'live line' distribution systems could be carried out, the consultancy work
could not be carried out. Finally, with the expansion of the project scope to
include consultancy services to assist BPDB in the assessment of its
rehabilitation needs (para 3.02(e)), EdF was retained as consultants and the
work completed satisfactorily.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01       The legal documents for the credit were adequate and appropriate
for achieving project objectives in the key organizational, technical and
financial areas. The SAR provided a useful framework to both the Bank and
BPDB for review of project implementation.



- 13 -
PART-II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS PERSPECTIVE
A. BANK' S PERFORMANCE
Bank's performance during whole implementation period was found
satisfactory and encouraging. Bank's mission regularly visited Bangladesh and
held meeting with GOB as well as BPDB's officials where discussions were held
freely in respect of all the issues faced while implementing the project. No
major problem was faced. IDA's allocation was US$ 56.0 million dollar against
base line cost of the project's appraisal estimate of US$ 63.2 million; but
actual expenditure was US$ 54.2 million including US$ 2.8 million for the
Flood Damage Repair Project which was extended by IDA in response to the
natural disaster in 1989. An undisbursed amount of US$ 1.80 million of the
IDA finance is due to non-procurement of "Live line equipment" with training
facility and 3 Nos. Car, 5 Nos. Jeep 5.nos Test van.
CO-FINANCIERS:
In 1986 US$ 2.22 million was financed by UNDP to GOB/BPDB for system
loss reduction programme to study the cause of BPDB system loss. Based on the
recommended measure, necessary action has been taken under the above mentioned
distribution project.
B. LESSONS LEARNED
IDA Loan was allocated for meeting expenditure of Transmission and
Distribution Project and Consultancy Service, including the consulting service
for preparatory work of proposed Power Rehabilitation Project and West zone
system studies.
C. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
BPDB was entrusted with the execution of the project to expand and
reinforce BPDB's transmission and distribution system in Bangladesh, to meet
the load forecast at least cost, to stabilize system voltage, and to reduce
transmission and distribution losses.
A Project Coordinator in the rank of Superintending Engineer was
appointed for over all management of financial resources, procurement of
stores and accounting of the project. In addition four Executive Engineers
in-charge of four Construction Divisions were posted for execution of the
Distribution Project.
Three Project Directors in the rank of Superintending Engineer and five
Executive Engineers with sufficient number of related officers and staff
assisted the above mentioned Project Directors for execution of the
Transmission Projects.
All procedures were carried out for obtaining timely approvals,
preparation of required documents, etc. The other departments of BPDB
assisted the Project Coordinator/Project Directors in all the related matters.
Regular coordination meetings were held between the borrower assisted by the
consultant and the contractors of different field under the Transmission and



- 14 -
Distribution work. Bottleneck were discussed and overcome. All effort and
full cooperation from all sides helped in implementing the project in due time
except the procurement of "Live Line Equipment" due to delay for approval of
electricity regulation by the concerned authority within the loan validity
period.
D. LESSONS LEARNED
a) Mainly it was a transmission and distribution project with consultancy
service financed by IDA and UNDP. Entire works for Transmission line
and sub-stations were completed on turnkey basis and all other
procurement had been made through ICB with the consent of IDA and
BPDB.
b) Frequent transfer of Project Coordinator and Directors as well as
officers affected to some extent with regard to furnishing information
in times of need. Officers selected and entrusted with such Projects
should not be normally transferred until completion so that sufficient
knowledge and information could be furnished right on time. During
the execution of the Project under this loan against the distribution
part, training facility of the Project officials were not implemented.
So it is proposed to train project officials in future.
c) Project Authority should have its own store and accounts department
separately so that sufficient related information could be available
All expenditure relating to particular project like CDST, other local
and as well as foreign currency expenditure may be routed through this
accounts department which will enable them to prepare project cost
independently. Executive Engineers, who are responsible for execution
should be under the control of Project Coordinator/Directors for
smooth implementation of the Project.
E. RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BANK & BORROWER
Relation between the Bank and BPDB had been satisfactory.



- 15 -
BANGLADESH
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
(CREDIT 1648-BD)
PART IlIl: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Credits
Credit                            Year of
No.      Project                 Approval      Status
934-BD   Greater Khulna Power        1979    Project completed
Distribution
1254-BD  Ashuganj Thermal Power      1982    Project completed
1262-BD  Rural Electrification       1982    Project completed
1633-BD  Second Rural                1985    Under execution
Electrification
1999-BD  Energy Sector               1989    Project Completed
Adjustment Credit
2016-BD  Power Distribution          1989    Under execution
(16 towns)
2129-BD  Third Rural                 1990    Under execution
Electrification                    I



- 16 -
2.  Proiect Timetable
Item                   Date Planned        Date Revised         Date Actual
Identification                                                                   May28, 1984
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                                                   September 25, 1984
Negotiations                            April 15, 1985                       November 6, 1985
Board Approval                          May 15, 1985                          January 14, 1986
Credit Signature                                                             February 14, 1986
Credit Effectiveness                                                          October 14, 1986
Project Completion                September 30, 1988                        December 31, 1992
Credit Closing                     December 31, 1990  December 31, 1991
March 31, 1992     March 31, 1992 *
* The credit was closed on March 31, 1992 except for financing source essential spares
and consulting services for which the credit was kept open till December 31, 1992 and
disbursement allowed till April 30, 1993.



- 17 -
3.  Credit Disbursements
Dfs!: .bu0s nts Un US Mifl,on
Estimated                          Actual as a
Cummulative                            % of
Bank Fiscal    Semester          as at            Actual            Revised
Year         Ending         Appraisal        Cummulative         Estimate
1985/86        12/31                   0.0               0.0               0.0
06/30                   1.1               0.0               0.0
1986/87        12/31                   2.2               3.8             172.7
06/30                  8.5                3.9              45.9
1987/88        12/31                  14.8               3.9              26.4
06/30                 22.9                6.0              26.2
1988/89        12/31                  31.0               6.5              21.0
06/30                  39.8              19.7              49.5
1989/90        12/31                  48.8              21.7              44.5
06/30                 51.7               32.1              62.1
1990/91        12/31                  56.0              43.3              77.3
06/30                 56.0               51.5
1991/92        12131                  56.0              52.5
06/30                 56.0               57.2
1992/93        12/31                  56.0              59.5
06/30                 56.0



4. Proiect lmDlementation
Date of
Package       ~~~Appaisal Contract  Schedul d   ActLual   F~inancing
=_________________ _   Estimate   Award   Completion Comple ionpi
2        3          4           5          6
Conductors-A                        2.50  01/11/88   09/30/89   09/30/89      I.D.A
Insulators-B                        0.60   05/19/87   07/30/89   07130/89    I.D.A
Tools & Equipment                   0.80   07/30/87   12124/88   12/24/88     I.D.A
ERECTION WORK:
a) Saidpur-Thakurgaon               0.20  05/10/89   11/15/90   11/15/90      I.D.A
b) Shahjibazar-Chattak              0.35  04/13/89   12131/90   12131/90    I.D.A
c) Bheramara-Barisal                0.35   03/30/89   06/03/91    06/03/91    I.D.A
Extension of 16 Gird S/S            8.50  02/18/86   06/08/90   06/08/90      I.D.A
Addl. Work in Grid S/S              3.50   06/25/89   11/23/90   11/23/90     I.D.A
LOSS REDUCTION COMPONENT
a) Sealing Materials                0.25   12111/88   02115/89   02115/89    I.D.A
b) Metering Unit                    3.10   01/23/90   10/06/90   10/06/90     I.D.A
c) D.O.F. Controls                  0.20   12/05/89   04/30/90   04130/90    I.D.A
d) Padlick Seals                    0.20   12111/88   09/18/89   09/18/89    I.D.A
e) Vehicles                         0.30  08/29/88   03/27/89   03/27/89      I.D.A
08/27/88   06/25189   06/25/89     I.D.A
FLOOD DAMAGE COMPONENT:
a) 33 KV Poles & Fittings           0.20  01/23/90   11/28/90   11/28/90      I.D.A
b) 11 KV Poles                      0.80   05/01/90   07/30/91   07/30/91     I.D.A
c) 11 KV Poles & Fittings           0.30   06/20/90   01/21191   01/21/91     I.D.A
d) 11 KV Poles                      0.80   06/25/90   10/15/90   10/15/90    I.D.A
e) M.C.C.B.                         0.10   08/09/89   06/10/90   06/10/90    I.D.A
f) 3 Phase Transformer              0.10  05/16/90   06/16/90   06/16/90      I.D.A
g) Transformer Oil                  0.10  06/05/90   04/30/91   04/30/91      I.D.A
h) 33 KV Circuite Breaker           0.10   06/07/90   02117/91   02/17/91     I.D.A
i) Insulators & Fittings            0.10   08/22190   02/21/91   02121/91     I.D.A
j) Guy Assembly Set                 0.10   06/02/90   02/17/91   02117/91     I.D.A
k) Vehicles                         0.10   07/17/90   02117/91   02/17/91     I.D.A



Pafage                               theteo
=~~~~~~~~~~~C m
DISTRIBUTION COMPONENT:
1) 33/11 KV S/S Contract (Lotsl &2)  4.70  04101/89   01/31/91   03/31/92    I.D.A
2) Vehicles (Lot-3)               0.20  10/15/90   11/15/90   11/15/90    I.D.A
12/18/89   10/30/90   10/30/90    I.D.A
3) VHF Epuipment (Lot-4)          0.74  03/15/89   10/30/90   10/30/90    I.D.A
4) 3 Phase Transformer(Lot-5/1 A)  1.10  12/19/89   08/27/90   08/27/90    I.D.A
02/26/92   06/01/92   06/01/92    I.D.A
5) 33KV Cables (Lot-5/2)          2.00  04/14/89   07/30/90   07/30/90    I.D.A
6) 11 KV & LV U/G Cables (Lot-5/3)  0.60  02/27/89   03/31/90   03/31/90    I.D.A
7) Dist. Equipment (Lot-5/4)      1.00  05/18/89   10/30/90   10/30/90    I.D.A
8) Insulators & Accessories (Lot-5/5)    0.30  07/26/89   10/30/90   10/30/90    I.D.A
9) Conductors, Cables &           5.20  04/30/89   03/05/90   03/05/90    I.D.A
Service Drop Cables (Lot-5/6)
10) LV bundled Conductors &       0.20  04/19/89   07/31/90   07/31/90    I.D.A
Accessories (Lot-5/7)
11) Overhead Distribution         1.30  07/15/89   10/20/90   10/20/90    I.D.A
Line Accessories (Lot-5/8)            11/06/91   06/01/92   06/01/92    I.D.A
12) LV Dist. Equipment, Enclosures  0.30  04/29/89   06/31/90   06/31/90    I.D.A
& Accessories (Lot-5/9)
13) Phase Meter & Service         1.35  05/20/90   11/30/90   11/30/90    I.D.A
Connection Boxes (Lot-5/1 0)
14) 3 Phase Meter (Lot-5/11A)     2.00  07/30/89   06/30/90   06/30/90    I.D.A
15) Test Equipment (Lot-5/11 B)   0.70  05/11/89   07/31/90   07/31/90    I.D.A
16) Construction Tools &          0.30  05/17/89   07/31/90   07/31/90    I.D.A
Equipment (Lot-5/12)
17) 33KV Galvanised Steel         0.20  02/09/89   09/24/90   09/24/90    I.D.A
Poles & Fittings (Lot-5/13)
18) 11 KV Poles & Fittings        6.40  07/05/89   02/12/91   02/12/91    I.D.A
(Lots-6/1, 6/2, 6/3)
19) Distribution Line             2.10  08/08/90   03/31/92   03/31/92    I.D.A
Erection Work (Lot-7)
CONSULTING SERVICES:
- Design of 132-kV S/S (e(i))                                            I.D.A
- Motor Columbus
- Constr.Supervision (e(i))       3.80  06/28/86   12/31/90   12/31/90    I.D.A
- EdF
-Improving BPDB's commercial      3.00  06/15/86   06/15/88   01/20/86    UNDP
and financial functions (e(ii))
- KOPEC/ESBI
-Reinforcing BPDB's planning unit       08/08/88   02/08/89   06/30/90    UNDP
and recommending a rehabilitation
program to reduce losses (e(iii))
- KOPEC/ESBI
- Tariff study (e(iv))                  08/09/85   03/09/86   08/15/86    UNDP
- C&L
-Training in maintenance and      0.50  06/28/86   09/30/89  - not done    I.D.A
errection of distr.lines (e(v))
- EdF
Note: The design of 1 32-kV S/S by Motor Columbus was financed out of savings
of the Greater Khulna project (Credit No. 934-BD)



-  20   -
5.    Project Costh
A.     PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(in US$ Millions)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT           REVISED COST ESTIMATE                       ACTUAL
Foreign     Local      Total     Foreign     Local      Total     Foreign      Local      Total
132 kV Lines.
Materiai                                   4.5        1.0        5.5        2.7         0.3        3.0        2.7        0.0        2.7
Vehicles & Erection Equipment              1.1        0.2        1.3        0.8         0.0        0.8        0.8        0.0        0.8
Civil Works                                0.0        0.7        0.7        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Land Acquisition & Dev.                    0.0        0.9        0.9        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Erection & Commissioning                   0.0        0.5        0.e        0.0        0.9         0.9        0.9        0.0        0.9
Sub Total                                5.6        3.4        9.0        3.5         1.2        4.7        4.4        0.0        4.4
132 kV Sub-stations:
Material                                   7.1        1.6        8.7        6.6         0.0        6.6        7.0        0.0        7o
Civil Works                                0.0        4.0        4.0        0.3         0.9        1.2        0.0        0.0        0.0
Land Acquisition & Dev.                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1         0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Erection & Commissioning                   0.8        0.0        0.8        0.7         0.0        0.7        0.0        0.7        0.7
Additional works                           0.0        0.0        0.0        3.1         0.4        3.5        2.5        0.4        2.9
Sub Total                                7.9        5.6       13.5       10.7         1.4       12.1        9.5        1.1       10.8
Low Voltaae Distribution Works.
Line Material                              8.1        2.5       10.6        7.4        13.7       21.1       19.2        0.4       19.6
Sub-station Material                       5.8        1.2        7.0        4.7         0.0        4.7        5.1        0.0        5.1
Renovation of Old Equip.                   1.5        0.3        1.8        0.4        0.3         0.7        0.0        0.0        0.0
Vehicles and Equipment                     0.8        0.1        0.9        0.3         0.0        0.3        0.4        0.0        0.4
Civil Works                                0.0        0.5        0.5        00          1.1        1.1        0.0        1.1        1.1
Land Acquisition & Dev.                    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.1         0.1        0.0        0.2        0.2
Erection & Commissioning                   0.0        1.5        1.5        0.0         2.6        2.6        0.0        2.8        2.8
Sub Total                               18.2        6.1       22.3       12.8        17.8       30.6       24.7        45        29.2
Loss Reduction Program:
Meters and other equipments                1.7        0.3        2.0        3.8         0.0        3.8        2.8        0.0        2.6
Vehicles for Commercial Operation          0.0        0.0        0.0        0.3         0.0        0.3        0.3        0.0        0.3
Sub Total                                1.7        0.3        2.0        4.1        0.0         4.1        2.9       0o0         2.9
Flood Damage Repair                        0.0        0.0        0,0        0.6        2.2         2.8        2.4        0.0        2.4
Sub Total                                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.6        2.2         2.8        2.4        0.0        2.4
Technical Assistance
Consulting Services (1)                    4.4        0.8        5.2        7.2         1.5        8.7        2.2        0.0        2.2
Training Equipment                         0.4        0.0        0.4        0.2        0.0         0.2        4.0        0.7        4.7
Sub Total                                4.8        0 8        5.6        7.4        1.5         8.9        6.2        0.7        6.9
Total Baseline Costs:                     3e 2       16.2       52.4       39.1       24.1        63.2       s 50.       6.3       5e.4
IDC                                        00        11.3       11.3                                          00        15.3       15.3
Establishment/Tax                                                                                             0.0        9.7        9.7
Physical Contigencies                      3.6        1.6        5.2        2.0        1.5         3.5        0.0        0.0        0.0
Price Contigencies                         8.0        6.0       14.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
TOTAL PROJECTCOST                         47.8       35.1       829        41 1       25.6       68.7        50.        313        81.4



- 21-
5.   Proiect Costs and FinancinQ
B.        Project Financing
(US$ million)
Planned Credit
Sources                          Agreement                  Final
IDA
Expenditure Categories
Civil Works (including Errection and Commission)              8.00                    5.26
Equipment, Vehicles and Materials                            36.00                   44.24
Consultants' services (including inspection service           2.40                    4.70
Overseas training                                             0.50
Unallocated                                                   5.40
Total IDA (in SDR million)                                 52.30
Total IDA (in US$ million equlv.) financing                56.00                    54.20
Cofinancing
UNDP                                                          3.00                    2.20
GOB                                                          11.40                    9.70
BPDB                                                         12.50                    15.30
Total Coflinancing                                         26.90                    27.20
Total                                                      82.90                    81.40



- 22 -
CREDIT 1648-8D
6.    Proiect Results
Economic Internal                  Appraisal
Rate of Return {EIRR)                 Estimate                        Actual
Tariff Revenue                               9.6%                          <-10%
Willingness to Pay (WtP)                    12.7%                          20.8%
Assumptions
1. Standard Conversion                       0.80                          0.89
Factor (SCF)
2. Average tariff (Tk/kWh)                   1.64                          1.972
3. Average WtP (Tk/kWh)                      1.94                          9.854
4. Generation/Transmission/            As per proposed        All actual costs of the
Distribution Investments          investment program       period 86-93.
5. Miscellaneous Investments           not considered         All actual costs of the
period 86-91.
6. Operation and Maintenance
Costs for:                                                 cumulative investment costs
Generation                  2.08% of capital costs                 5%  "  n
Transmission                          2.00%                        2%      t o
Distribution                          4.00%                        3%  n  '.
Miscellaneous                     no indication                    1%  n  n
7. Life Period                          FY1985-FY2014                FY1986 - FY2022
8.    Assumption:
(a)   Investment costs considered for generation and transmission are the actual costs of the
facilities installed during the relevant periodsy.   These costs are taken net of
taxes & duties, the local costs being converted into economic costs by using of a
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.89.
(b)   Investment costs in Distribution and Miscellaneousy are also the actual cost of the
facilities, as in para (a) above.
(c)   The current economic cost of natural gas, estimated at Tk. 36.77/Mcf is used for the
present evaluation, with the latest bank projections for oil prices3/.
I/  Generation: the cost of all faciLities cofpLeted during the period from FY 87 to FY 92.
Transmission: the cost of all faciLities completed during the period from FY 86 to FY 91.
i. Distribution: the cost of aLL facilities completed during the period from FY 87 to FY 92, pLus the
committed investment of the FY 93. This must incLudes the investments for the rural eLectrification.
Miscellaneous investments cover things Like meters, building, headquarters, etc..  The period
considered is FY 86 - FY 91.
W. orLd Bank paper from the international economics department, internationaL trade division, dated February
10, 1993; and Office Memorandum (OM) on Prices of crude petroteu and petroleum products, December 1992,
dated January 29, 1993;  and the OM of May 21, 1993, on the Updated exchange rate and infLation
projections parameters for project analysis.



- 23 -
(d)   Operating and Maintenance costs  (O&M) have been assumed based on the cumulated
investment costs, by using the following ratios:
Generation         5%                 Transmission       2%
Distribution       3%                 Miscellaneous      1%
Benefits
(e)   The current tariff has been used for the evaluation of the tariff adequacy, the revenue
being not converted by the SCF, and no fuel savings being considered. The weighted
average tariff revenue reached Tk 1.972/kWh.
(f)   The Economic Rate of Return has been evaluated based on the latest WtP evaluation
applied on incremental sales and converted into economic benefits by using of the SCF.
For whatever fuel savings that resulted from the comparison between the generation
costs with and without the projects considered in the time-slice, the fuel prices
considered were derived from the latest Bank projections.
(g)   The total weighted economic value of electricity is averaging at Tk 9.854/kWh in
domestic terms, resulting from the following values:
WILLINGNESS TO PAY ESTIMATES
MEAN
TARIFF CATEGORY          %       WtP   VALUE    kWh/y
Tk/kWh
RESIDENTIAL: Al              70.0%  18.307  12.815        750
25.0%  18.634   4.659       850
5.0%  18.864   0.943       950
100.0%          18.417
MISCELLANEOUS: A2+J                    13.525              1500
IRRIGATION: B                       5.368              19000
LV INDUSTRY: C                        2.596             25000
MV < 5 MVA: F                        4.366             50000
MV JUTE: G                       4.940             300000
MV > 5 MVA: H                        4.955           1000000
COMMERCIAL: D                       21.141              1000
INSTITUTION: E                      21.873               2000
SALES TO REB: I
RESIDENTIAL   38.25%  18.307  7.0025
COMMERCIAL    17.00%  21.141  3.5940
LV INDUSTRY   25.50%   2.596  0.6621
IRRIGATION     4.25%   5.368  0.0767
MEAN VALUE    85.00%          11.3352
LOSSES         15.00%
100. 00%



CREDIT 1648-8D
7. Status of Covenants
BANGLADESH
Bangladesh Power Development Board
Power Transmission & Distribution Project (Credit 1648-BD)
Status of Compliance with Covenants
December 1992
Agreement                                                Section                  Conformity         Remarks
1.      BPDB should establish and maintain a fund from its   (PA 3.03)                    No                  BPDB is implementing a self insurance scheme based on 0.1% of the
resources to cover insurance risk. A draft scheme                                                    book value of generating plants, grid and distribution substations.
will be submitted to IDA by December 31. 1986                                                         However, the fund is small at Tk.5 N only.
2.      BPDB is to furnish to IDA not later than nine            (PA 4.01)
months after the end of fiscal year :
(a)   BPDB's audit report and audited financial                                   No                 BPDB continues to defautt in the timely submission of audited
statements; and                                                                                accounts and the FY91 audit report was submitted to IDA only in June
1992.
(b)   auditors- report on Special Account.                                        No                 FY90 audit report submitted only in November 1992.  FY91 audit report
was overdue on March 31, 1992.
3.      BPDB shall earn an annual rate of return of 2% in    (PA 4.02(a))                 No                  According to the audited accounts for FY91, BPDB earned an ROR of
FY89, 4% in FY90, 6% in FY91, 7% in FY92, 8% in                                                      0.6% during FY91. ADS/IDA have suspended further support to the power
FY93 and thereafter.                                                                                 sector pending BPDB-s improved performance.                                 N
4.      BPDB to review adequacy of its tariffs by April 1,   (PA 4.02(b))                 No                  Despite increases of tariffs, ROR targets not complied with. Same as
each year to achieve rate of return targets.                                                         para 3.
5.      BPDB will employ consultants for two years to help   (schedule 2 of PA)           Yes                 The consultants (ESB) have completed work in July 1990 and produced
BPDB streamline its billing and metering                                                              recommendations to reduce technical and non-technical losses. A Long
procedures and recomennd by December 11, 1986 a                                                      Term Action plan has also been agreed under the proposed Power
dated action program to reduce system losses and                                                      Rehabilitation Project, but losses have not yet been contained.
would prepare plans to reinforce and rehabilitate
its distribution system by identifying areas of
high losses.
6.      BPDB will fully implement throughout its entire          (Schedule 2 of PA)       No                  ADB/UNDP/IDA have offered to support BPDB with a TA program aimed at
operation an accounting system satisf~actory to                                                       imrproving BPDB-s accounting procedures and financial management.
IDA.
7.      BPDB witl  ensure that by June 30, 1989 and all          (Schedule 2 of PA)       No                  As of September 1992 (latest information available) the BPDB/DESA
times thereafter its accounts receivabLes will not                                                   comrbined accounts receivable was at 7.1 months level. Same as para 3.
exceed the equivalent of three and half preceding
months sales.



Power Transmission & Distribution Project (Credit 1648-BD)
Status of Compliance with Covenants
December 1992
Agreement                                                Section                  Conformity         Remarks
8.      BPOB will annually revatue its assets in a manner    (Schedule 2 of PA)           No                  BPDB has been revaluing its fixed asset at the rate of 10% p.a.  This
satisfactory to IDA.                                                                                 rate has no justifiable basis and has caused undervaluing of BPDB's
assets. Under APPI, C&LD have carried out a valuation of BPDB's
assets as of June 30, 1990. Based on the findings of above study.
BPDB has prepared a draft revised fixed asset valuation report, which
on finalization, will be reviewed by IDA.
9.      BPDB will maintain - debt/equity ratio of no more    (Schedule 2 of PA)           No                  BPDB does not service its debts and cash shortfalls are met through
than 1.5:1.                                                                                          equity infusion by the govt.
10.     BPDB will carry out a training program in erection   (Schedule 2 of PA)           No                  The training on live line has not been inmlemented and can only be
and maintenance of distribution lines in a                                                           implemented under a future project.
timetable agreed with IDA.
11.     BPDB shall by June 30, 1986 prepare proposals to         (Schedule 2 of PA)       Yes                Delayed compliance - BPOB has decided not to connect new consumers
provide meters at those places where there are no                                                    without meters. Under Credit 2016-BD there is a provision for the
meters and thereafter implement the program.                                                         procurement of 300,000 single phase meters.  But procurement is being
deLayed because of a court injunction.
12.     BPDB shall by June 30, 1986 prepare a program for    (Schedule 2 of PA)           No                 This is part of ADB-s Sixth Power Project. EDF (France) have been the
the introduction of a computerized billing system                                                    consultant engaged by BPDB to make recommendation. Two mainframe
and thereafter implement the program.                                                                computers have been installed (Dhaka & Chittagong). Partial
computerization of billing is being carried out in Chittagong and in un
DESA areas.
13.     BPDB shall not issue supplementary bills unless          (Schedule 2 of PA        Yes
underbilling, theft or fraud has been established    and Minutes of
Negotiations)
14.     BPOB shall carry out a study of subsidies to rural   (DCA 3.04)                   Yes                The consultants completed the study in June 1986 and based on the
electrification program and of bulk and retail                                                       study appropriate changes in tariffs were made.
tariffs to be applied taking into account long run
marginal costs. BPDB shall by December 31, 1986 or
such other later date agreed by IDA implement the
tariff structure and other.



S.    Ure of Bank Resources
Stage of              Monolh        No. of         SW        Specoi,atuuon                       Performanc               Types of
Project Cycle             Year        Persons       in field     Reprcscnted                       Rating Status            Problems
T-woucb Apprijul
Ideatificatiuo,'              06/84          3             2       Sr. Lona Officer
Prepaation            11                                           Power Enginecr
Financial Analyst
Appraisl              2/      10/14          4             4       Power Engincer
2 Finaoiaial Analysts
Coosutant t-conomiat)
Supervij 2ii
Supervisian 1         3/      06/86          2             4       Power Engineer
Sr Financial Analyst
Supervisiou 2         4/      12/'6          2             2       Power Eagineer                             I         Prrcuremeut
Sr. Pirancial Analyst                                Commercial.
Financial
Super,ismo  3         5/      06/87          2             1       Sr. P-wer Engineer                        i          Procurncast
Sr. Fioancial Analyst                                Commercal
Financial
Supcrvision 4         6/      02188          2             3       Puwer Enginaecr                           2          institutionaI
Consultant (Powcr Engineer)                          Procurtmeast
Supervision 5         7/      10/18          5             2       2 Sr. Power Engineers                     3          Institutional
Sr. Economiat                                        Financia.l
F2 inancial Analysts                                 Procurement
Supervision 6         E/      05,1'9         3             2       Sr. Power Engincer                        2          I[stitutional
Sr. Economist                                        Financial
Financial Analyst                                    Procuremeat
Supervision 7         9/      1219          4             2       2 Sr. Power Engineers                     2          Training
Sr. Eco.onmiat                                       Institutional
Financial Analyst                                    Financial
Supervision S         [0/    05,90           2             2       Sr. Power Engineer                        2          Training
Financial AnAlyst                                    Commerciis
Procurement
Supcrvision 9         11/    11190           3             1       Sr, Power Engineer                        3          Training
Financial Analyst                                    Commercial
Program Officer                                      Financial
Supervision 10        12/    04/91           3             1       Sr. Power Engineer                        3          Commcrcial
Financial Analyst                                    Financial
Program Officcr
Supervision 11        13/    12191           3             2       Sr. Program Officcr                       3          Institutioal
Sr. Power Engineer                                   Commercial
Financial Analya                                     Financial
Supervision 12        14/    12192            S            4       Sr. Program Officer                       3          Institutional
Sr. Power Engineer                                   Financial
Power Engincer
Financial Analyst
Procurement Assistant
I,,   Tis wass a combined mission witt preparation extension of Asbuganj Powcr Project and proposcd Second Rural Electrification ProjecL
V1    This was a combined mission w ihc xten ion of Asbuganj Power Project a. J proposed Second Rural Electification Projecct
3/   Thi was a combined mission with Cr.934-ED, Cr.1254-BD. Cr 1262-BD and Cr.1633-BD.
4/   This aas a combined misaion witb Cr.934-BD, Cr.1254-BD. Cr. 162-BD a.J .'r.1633-BD.
5,'   This was a combined mission with Cr.1254-BD, Cr.1262-BD aoJ Cr.1633-BD.
6/    This was a combined misuion with Cr. 1254-BD, Cr.1262-BD and Cr. 1633-BD.
71    This was a combined mission with Cr. 1254-BD, Cr.1262-BD, Cr.1633-BD and Asscesment of Flood Damage to Power Facilities.
SJ    This was  combinbd misaion with Cr. 1254-BD. Cr. 1262-BD, Cr. 1633-BD  nd preparation mission of Tbe Third Riral Electnficaition Project
9/   This was a combined mission with Cr. 1254-BD, Cr.2016-BD. Cr. 1262-BD and Cr.1633-BD.
101  This wss a combined misaiou with Cr. 1254-BD, Cr 016- BD, Cr 126,/ BD ci. Cr 1633-BD.
Il/  Tbis was a combmsed missiou with Cr.2016-BD, Cr. 1633-BD and Cr 2129-BD.
121   This was a combined inisrLo.! wiLb Cr.2016-BD and Cr 1633-BD
13/ T-ais was a combined mission with Cr.2016-BD and Cr. 1633-BD.
14/  This was a combined missLon with Cr 2016-BD and Cr.1633-BD.



- 27 -
BANGLADESH                                                                Annex I
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD                                                              Page I of 3
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Income Statements
Tk. Million
Fiscal Year ending                   1985           1986          1987           1988          1989           1990             1991             1992
June 30                           Apr.    Act.    Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.    Apr    Act.    Apr.    Act.    Apr. | Prov.
Sales of Electricity (GWh)        2860  2841   3372  3307   3927   3484  4570   3773   5341   4048    8229   4705    7223    4871    8371    6021
System Loss(O)                      39     37     38     31      34     38     32     42     30      42      28     39       26      41      24       32
Av. Revenue(Tk/kWh)               1.41   1.40   1.82   1.88   1.79   1.73   1.85   1.92   204   2.01    2.38   2.18    2.40    2.32    2.59    2.00
Revenues
Saleof Electricity                4032  3970   5463  5488  7041   8019   8448  7234  10903   8133  14877  10087   17338   11280   21880   12089
Other Operating Income             141    153    191    192    248    283    29e   287    382    290        514    310      807     303     759      253
Total Operating Revenues          4173  4123  5854   5878   7287   8282   8742   7500  11285  8423   15191  10377   17943   11583   22439   12322
Expenses
Fuel Cost                         2208  2253   2345  3212   2583   2578   2188  2901   2230   3075    3092   3134    3719    3524    5574    4745
Personnel                          458    480    524    844    803    759    694    900    798    953       917   1159    1055    1108    1213    1147
Operation, Maint. & Admin.         694   438   703    988    834   1248    989    930   1176   1176    1397   1841    1682    1929    1978    1982
Depreciation                       538   574    751    836   1072   1143   1454   1992   2022   1913    2597   2573    2985    3023    3513    4948
Provision for Bad Debt               0      0      0      0       0 I   0       0      0       0     53              0              288             -387
Asset Insurance                      0      0      2       2      0      0      0      0       0      2       2      2        0       3                0
Total Operating Expenses          3792   3724  4323   5677  5072   5727   5323   8722  6228   7173    8003   8708    9421    9840   12278   12433
NetOperatingRevenue                381    398   1331       1  2215    558   3419    778   5059   1250    7188   1870    8522    1742   10181   -111
Interest Expenses
Total Interest                     823   311    972    515   1821    687   2528   2428  3304               3787            4080            4372
Less: Interest Capitalised         397    111    538    229   1213    303   1835   1580   1913             1738            1482             1276
Interest charged to Operations     228    200    438    288    808    S34    891    887  1391   1087    2031   1857    2598    1958    3098    2883
F.E. Loss (Gain)                     0      0      0      0       2      2      0      2      2  -278             2088             1122             4708
Total Income                       155    199    895  -285   1807    172   2728   -89   388         481    5157 -2275    5924   -1337    70e5  -7482
Dividend Paymentto GOB               0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0       0      0       0      0        0       0        0       0
Prior Year's Adjustment           -395    -48      0  -224        0   -335      0       0      0 -1543        0 -1275         0     879        0     882
Not Income                        -240    153    895  -509   1807  -183   2728    -89   3888 -1182    5157 -3550    5924    -058    7085   -8800
Av. Current Net Value of Assets    16028  15984 20423 23588  29539 31921  40222 37852 5e213 50702  71878 64378   81212   73935   94481   92848
Rate of Return I%)                 2.4    2 5    8.5    0.0    7 5    1.7    8.5    2.1    9.0    2 5    10 0    2.e    10.5         2.4    10.8   -0.1
Operating Ratio (A)                 91     90     76    100      70     91     e1      90     55     85      53     84       53      85       55     101
Note: Starling FY89 the RORe inclussive of F.E.Losses and Interest on short term loans were 2.9%, -0.7%, 0.84 and -5.2% respectively for FYs 89, 90, 91 and 92.



- 28 -
BANGLADESH                                                               Annex I
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD                                                            Page 2 of 3
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
Tk. Million
1985          1986          1987           1988          1989           1990           1991             1992
Apr.  Act.   Apr.  AAct.   Apr.tt Ap. A Act. Apr.At.    Apr.   Act.                                    Apr. I Prov.
Source!
Internal Sources
Net Incomne before Interest       382   398   1330        1  2215    55-   3419   778  5059    704    7188   1670    8522    1745   10161    4830
Depreciation                      536   574   751    838   1072   1143   1454   1992  2022  3041    2597  3873   2985    4490    3613  41353
Total Internal Sources            918   972  2021    836   3287   1689   4873  2769  7081   3745    9785  5343   11507    8236   13674  46982
Adj. fron prev. yr.              -385   -46        0  -224       0  -33.5      0      0      0 -1843         0 -1275        0     679       0   -882
External Sources
G.OB.Equity(Grants & Subsidy)     892   622  2927   542  3026   1014           0   825       0  2674        0  2482         0    1017       0   -213
ConsumerCorntribution               9     16a      9     38     10    21      15    33      12     77       13    33       13      35      14    -96
Aset Revaluation Reserve         1444  1444   1904  2234   2790   3110   3910   3311   5179  4743    7456  7299    8774    814.4   9881   26537
Employees Funds(Gr. & P.F.)         0    62       0     83       0     87      0     92      0     73       O     81        0      66       0     -25
Consumers Deposite(Net)             0    49        0     63      0     90      0    84       0    110        0     87       0      78       0   -184
Unpaid Fuel Bills                   0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Borrowings
Foreign Loan                     3627  2476  6806  5242   7107  8131   5804  8800  4765   3402    4522  2741    3194    2935    4418    3169
Government Loan                   891    410   1576   1028   1629    919    285    733    273    6o0         0   280        0     645       0    604
Issue of Debenture(lncl. FDR Encas  0   845       0    150       0   200       0      0      0      0       O     49        0      70       0   -152
Total Borrowings                 4518  3531   8382  6420   8736   9250  5s89  7533  503S   4002    4522   3070    3194    3649   4418    3821
Total External Sources           6863  5724 13222  9379  14502  13572  9794  11879 10229 11878   11991  13052   11981   12990   14313  29640
Forgn. Loan Rev.                    0   e89       0  1787        0   1121      0  2088       0 -1250         0  3265        0     a89       0   6110
Total Sources                    7386  7339 15303 11779  17849  183057 14667  16717 17310  12531   21776 20385   23488  20773  27987  80849
Applications
Capital Investments              5410  4882 11309  7808  11762  11353  9976  9178  8571   7557   7717  6153   5675    5544    8136   10075
Other lnv.(lncl. Asset Ins.Fund)    4    24       11      6     21     17    27      20     35     41      46    31        59      57      77      31
Capitalised Interest                0    111      0   229        0    303      0  1550       0  2938        0   991         0    1296       0     983
Inc.in Inv due to Ex. Rate var    308   329   298    696    383    541    427    511   851  -528    3U5  4385             248    2893     689   8110
Total lnvestment Program         5722  5348 11618  8739 12168  12214 10430 11267   9457 10005    8148 11540    5982    9589    8902   17199
Asset Revaluation                1444  1444   1904  2234  2790   3110   3910   3311  5179  4743    7456   7299   8774    8144    9881   55236
Dec.in Apr.Surp.due to Ex.Rate Var  502   380    447   1092    153    580   -92   1557  -134        0   -144        0    -14               14
Debt Service
Ammortization                     545   363    552   651    616    752    790   1243   1113   1823    1481  2323    1788    2945   2068    3626
Interest Payment                  226   200   436    286    608    384    e91    8e7  1391   1067    2031   1857   2598    1958   3096    2683
Total Debt Service                771    583    988    936   1224   1135   1481  2109   2504   2890    3512  4180    43a8    4903    5184    6288
Dividend Payment to G.O.B.          0      0      0      0       0      0      0      0      0      0       0       0       0       0       0       0
Net Change in Working Capital    -1054  -373    348 -1221   1515  -982 -1061  -1528    304 -5107    2803 -2634    4380  -1882    4027    2126
Total Applications               7385  7339  15303  11779  17848  16057 14668  16717 17310  12531   21775 20385  23488   20773   27988   80849



BANGLADESH                                                             Annex I
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD                                                           Page 3 of 3
POWER TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Balance Sheets
Tk. Tk. Million
1985         ls86          1987           1988          1989          1990            1991            1992
Apr.   Act   Apr.   Act   Apr.   Act   Apr.   Act.   Apr.   Act.    Apr.  Act.    Apr.    Act    Apr.   Prov
Acsets
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets              19042 22337 27900 31097 39097 40982 51792 47371 74555 72991   87738 81435  98809  100270 120773 184700
Less: Acc. Depreciation          2873  2711   3424  3547  449e  4090  5950  7959  7972 11000  10569 14673  13554   19183   17067  80516
Not Fixed Asets                 16389 19826 24476 27550 34601  30292 45842 30412 68583 61991  77189  60762  85265   81107 103706 104134
Work in Progress                1604S  12685 20403 14872 23758 20293 24949 28482 15936 17550   17926 24725  21303  20977  17356  24244
Otherlnvestment                   5s    78    69    84    90   100   117   121    152   161              198   143    257       127    334      105
Capital Stores                    355           653          1038          1483         2314            2699          2947             363e
Inv Plan Advances                 502          949           1102          1010          878            732            718              732
Current Asets
Cash &BankBalance                 281   301   865   281  2087   676   389  1284    185  1649    1889  1719   5734    1971    8994   2483
Inventories                       502  1257   602   1181    723  1145   867  1188  1041   1212    1249  1338    1499    1539    1799   1377
Accounts Receivable              1880  1711   1821  2880   1966  3715  2112  4471   2726  4657   3869  3358   4334   5783    5420   6264
Other Assets                      326   37    357   304   400  -138   387  -132    420    275    5.41   325    644              292     876    348
Total Current Assets             2789  3845  3445  4845  5178  5397  3755  e610  4372  T793   7348  6740   12211    9505   17089  10452
TotalAssets                     36121 36014 49996 47151 e57e3 62083 77136 74806 90234 87495 106073 98370 122692  111776  142854 138985
Equity & Liabilities
Equity
Govt. Equity& Grants            13469 13199 16398 15380 19422 16394 19422 19044 19422 21718   19422 24200   19422  25217   19422  25005
Consumer Contributlon             133   139   142    177    152   199   187   232    179   309           191   342      205     377     219    282
Retained Earnings                -116   276   779  -233  2386  -396  5114 -1762  8782 -5123   13939 -8673   19862  -9331   26927 -14189
Asset Revaluation Surplus        3980  3601   5864  4743  8e54  7272 12564  9026 17743 15121   25199 21320  33972  27997  43853  55748
Total Equity                    17448 17215 23181  20067 30614 23469 37267 26640 48126 32026  58751 37190  73401   44260  90420   88ee8
Total Long Term Debt            15525 15343 23355 208e9 31475 30129 36554 38365 40479 36803  43520 40684  44926   41163  47276  40312
Empl.Fund&Cons.Sec. Deposits        0   611       0   757       0   933       0  1110      0  1464        0  1636         0    1791       0   1537
Asset Insurance Fund                0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      0      2       0      2       0       5       0       5
Arrearr(Med TermXlnt, DSL. RPA)                                                               10099          12284            16831           17594
Current Liabilities              3150  2844  3461   5459  3075  7551   3318 10791   3030  7101    3803  6574    4306   7726   5158   6671
Total Equity& Uabilities        38121 36014 49996 47151 85763 62083 77136 74806 90234 87495 106073 98370 122692 111776  142853 138985
Debt as * s  of Debt + Equity      47    47    50    51    51    5s    50    58    47    53              43    52       38       4S      34      41
Acts. Receiv. (no. of months)       5      5      4      6      3      7      3      7      3     7       3      4        3       6       3       a
Notes: The following adjustments were made onto BPDB's FY92 accounts:
1. Net income before interest includes loss transferred to DESA amounting to Taka 4740. 18 million.
2. GOB equity (grants & subsidy) has been adjusted by Taka 1768.87 million because the same has been transferred to DESA
3. Consumers contribution has been adjusted by Taka 168.74 million for the amount transferred to DESA.
4. Employees general provident fund and pension fund has been adjusted by Taka 30.21 million and Taka 66.01 million respectively, being amounts transferred to DESA
5. Foreign loans received for the year have been reduced by taka 4237.47 million, as the same were transferred to DESA.
6. Government loan received for the year has also been reduced by Taka 411.02 million as the amount was transferred to DESA.
7. Issue of debenture has been adjusted by Taka 261.42 million as the same was transferred to DESA.
S. Consumers' security deposit has been reduced by Taka 261.42 million as the same was transferred to DESA.
9. Increas In Investment due to exchange rate variation includes extra ordinary item on account of revaluation of opening balance of depreciation.



