CREDIT NUMBER 1648 BD
Project Agreement
(Power Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
Dated   V                         ,1986


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1648 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                       1     , 1986, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATI    (the  Association) and
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD (BPDB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Bangladesh (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-two million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 52,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that BPDB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BPDB, the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to BPDB on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS BPDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BPDB declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿-2-
with  appropriate   administrative, financial,   engineering   and
public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and  other   resources  required   for  the   Project,  including
additional staff positions in accordance with a schedule agreed
with the Association.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, BPDB shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Association and BPDB.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. BPDB shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. BPDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, BPDB shall not take or concur in any
action which vould have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) BPDB shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BPDB shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by BPDB of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BPDB
Section 3.01. BPDB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. BPDB shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. BPDB shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistnnt with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. BPDB shall, by July 31 of each year of Project
execution, review in consultation with the Association its
investment program and the financing arrangements therefor, and
shall make such changes in said programs as the Borrower, the
Association and BPDB shall agree.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BPDB shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b) BPDB shall:
(i)  have  its   accounts   and  financial   statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) and the Special Account
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate   auditing   principles   consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after


﻿-4-
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts and financial statements
as well as the audit thereof and said records, as
the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements
of expenditure, BPDB shall:
(i) maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
Section, separate records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii) retain,   until   at  least  one   year  after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
credit account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts) and other
documents evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such separate accounts are included in
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report thereof contains,
in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by the said auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn in respect of
such expenditures have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BPDB shall earn an annual rate of return on the average
current net value of BPDB's fixed assets in operation of at least
5% in fiscal year 1986, 7.5% in fiscal year 1987, 8.5% in fiscal
year 1988, 9% in fiscal year 1989, 10% in fiscal year 1990 and
thereafter.


﻿-5-
(b) Before April 1 in each of its fiscal years, BPDB
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by BPDB and satis-
factory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the
Association the results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that BPDB would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for BPDB's fiscal years
covered by such review, BPDB shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual rate of return shall be calculated by
dividing BPDB's net operating income for the
fiscal year in question by one-half of the sum of
the current net value of BPDB's fixed assets in
operation at the beginning and at the end of that
fiscal year;
(ii) the term "net operating income" means the total
operating revenues less total operating expenses;
(iii) the term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations;
(iv) the term    "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including admini-
stration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation
on   a  straight-line   basis   at  annual   rates
acceptable to the Association and calculated on
the average current gross value of BPDB's fixed
assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to
the Association, but excluding interest and other
charges on debt;
(v) the average current gross value of BPDB's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one-
half of the sum of the gross value of BPDB's fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the
end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to


﻿-6-
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association; and
(vi) the term "current net value of BPDB's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of BPDB's
fixed assets in operation less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to
time in accordance with sound and consistently
maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to
the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BPDB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 20 years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BPDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-7-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For BPDB:
Bangladesh Power Development Board
WAPDA Building
Motijheel Commercial Area
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                   Telex:
POWER BOARD                        65617 BPB BJ
Dhaka
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BPDB, may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as he shall designate in
writing, and BPDB shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
BANGLADESH POWER DEVELOPMENT BOARD
v   Z
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Construction of the substations under Part B of the Project
and the supply of equipment therefor shall be procured under
turnkey arrangements on the basis of one or more contracts.
Part B,   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured
in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works (other than those for Part B of the Project),
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive   bidding   advertised   locally   under   procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Equipment estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
$75,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of $375,000 equivalent,
may   be  procured  under   contracts  awarded   through  limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids invited from a list of at least three
qualified  suppliers   eligible  under  the   Guidelines  and  in
accordance with the procedures set forth in Sections I and II of
the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).


﻿- 10 -
3.   Contracts for equipment estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $75,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of $375,000
equivalent, may be awarded following competitive bidding adver-
tised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Part D.   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelin-- shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3
(the Special Account Schedule) to the Development Credit Agree-
ment.
(c) The provisions -of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 11-
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist BPDB in carrying out the Project, BPDB
shall employ consultants as specified in Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions   of   employment  shall   be   satisfactory   to  the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
System Losses
1.   BPDB will employ or cause to be employed for a period of 2
years, a consulting firm to provide the services of a commercial
manager, a meter engineer and five meter technicians, to help
BPDB streamline its billing and metering procedures.
2.   BPDB will appoint or cause to be appointed consultants to
assist   its  distribution  planning   units  to  reinforce  and
rehabilitate the local distribution system, to identify areas of
high losses and to recommend, by December 31, 1986, dated action
programs to remedy each of the specific causes of system losses.
3.   BPDB will timely implement the action programs referred to
in paragraph 2 above, taking into account the Association's
comments thereon.
4.   BPDB will: (a) by June 30, 1986, prepare and furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a program to provide meters at
those installations where there are no meters and to recalibrate
existing meters and make all installations secure; and (b)
thereafter, timely implement said program taking into account the
Association's comments thereon.
5.   BPDB will: (a) by June 30, 1986, prepare and furnish to the
Association for its comments, a program for the introduction
of a computerized billing system consistent with normal commer-
cial  utility   practices;  (b)   thereafter,  timely  implement
said program taking into account the Association's comments
thereon; and (c) at all times keep the Association informed of
the progress of such program.
Project Engineering
6.   BPDB will: (a) promptly appoint consultants to review the
engineering designs, specifications and bidding documents for low
voltage distribution works, to supervise the progress of the
Project during construction (excluding low voltage distribution
works) and to assist in the carrying out of the training program
referred to in paragraph 8 below; and (b) employ consultants to
undertake field surveys and prepare design specifications and


﻿- 13 -
bidding documents, and supervise during construction low voltage
distribution works and to review the engineering design,
specifications and bidding documents for 132 kV substations.
Training
7.   BPDB will carry out a training program in erection and
maintenance of distribution lines in accordance with a timetable
agreed with the Association.
System of Accounts
8.   BPDB will fully implement throughout its entire operations
an accounting system satisfactory to the Association. To that
effect the Association and BPDB will jointly review BPDB's
existing accounting system.
Accounts Receivable
9.   BPDB will promptly carry out an action program satisfactory
to the Association to settle all existing accounts receivable
from the sale of electricity and to ensure that by June 30, 1988
and at all times thereafter its accounts receivable will not
exceed the equivalent of the three preceding months' sales of
electricity.
Revaluation of Assets
10. BPDB will annually revalue, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, BPDB's fixed assets in operation.
Debt/Equity Ratio
11. BPDB will maintain a debt/equity ratio of not more than
1.5:1. For the purposes of this paragraph:
(i) "debt" means any debt maturing by its terms more than
one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of
execution and delivery of a contract, loan agreement or
guarantee agreement providing for such debt; and


﻿- 14 -
(iii) the term "equity" means BPDB's capital, retained earn-
ings, surplus and reserves (including any revaluation
reserve but excluding any reserve allocated   to cover
specific liabilities).


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereu n to  th e        d ay  of  -j'
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


