RESTRICTED
Report No. P-589
FILL CP
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORI
FOR A LAND SETTLEMENT PROJECT
MALAYSIA
March 28, 1968



IN?ERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DLVELOP2ThIT
REORT` AL'@ ?!D rECO1:17DMrLIW OF TIE PRESIDENT TO TILE
=XECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
MALAYSIA FOR THE JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
I.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$140O million
to Malaysia to finance part of the cost of a land settlement project in
an area in the State of Pahang, known for its locat-ion and shape as the
Jengka Triangle.
PART I - HISTORICAL
24       Malaysia has made a considerable effort over the last 10 years
to develop virgirn land for her landless population and to introduce
crops  other than rubber, on. which the countryxs economy and exports
have hitherto been heavily dependent. The Jengka Triangle Scheme would
be M4alaysia's first attempt at concentrated and planned development of
virgin land on a large scale.
3.       The Bank has beer. associated with the scheme at every important
stage. In 1963 a Bank miss-on visited Malaysia to discuss with the
Government and the Federal Land Development Authority (FIDA), the
executing agency, the steps necessary for its preparation. One of the
recommendations of the mission was that, in view of the magnitude of
the scheme and of the size of the eventual investment, a study to be
carried out by expert consultants was essential.  The study was financed
in part by a Bank technical assistance grant made in 1965. In January
1967, the consultants for the study, Tippets-Abbott-iMloCarthy-Stratton
and Hunting Technical Services Ltd,,presented a Master Plan for the
development of the Triangle referred to as the Jengka Triangle Program.
The program, of which the proposed project would be the first stage,
consists in the development of some 93,000 acres of crops, the establish-
ment of about 9,000 settler families over 12 years and the systematic
exploitation of the forest resources of the area.
4.       The project was appraised in May/June 1967, Negotiations for
the proposed loan took place between January 22 and January 30 with Tan
Sri Taib bin Haji Andak, Chairman, FL.D.A.; Mlessrs. Rastam bin Abdul
Hadi, Deputy Under Secretary (Finance), the Treasury; B.T.H. Lee,
Treasury Solicitor; Sulaiman bin Abdullah, Principal Assistant Secretary,
Economic Planning Unit; and Ishak bin Tadin, Principal Assistant
Secretary, Ministry of National and Rural Development.
5.       The proposed loan would be the seventh for Malaysia.  The
following is a summary statement of Bank loans to Nalaysia as at
February 29, 1968.



-2-
Almount (US$ million)
Loan No. Year  Borver                     Purpose    Bank    Undisbursed
210-MA    1958  Central Electricity       Electric    28.6
Board                    Power
348-IMA    1963  Xalaysian Industrial    Industrial   8.0          2.0
Devrelopment Finance     Finance
IiimifOed
350-MA    1963  Central Electricity       31ectric    51.9         6J3
Board                    Power
43h-4hA   1965  Government of Malaysia  Irrigation  45.0          37.3
458-NA    1966  National Electricity    Electric    37.0          29.h
Board                    Power
500-NIA   1967  Government of Malaysia  Irrigation  10.0          10.0
Total (less cancellations)                 180.5
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                         4.8
Total now outstanding                      175.7
Amount sold:                  8.0
of which has been
repaid                      2.1            5,9
Total now held by
Bank                                     16M.8
Total undisbursed                                      85.o
The Barnc made a loan of $6.8 million in February 1965 to the Public
Utilities Board of Singapore under the guarantee of M4alaysia, of which
Singapore was tllen a part. M4alaysia remains the guar&ntor of this loan.
6.      TEe rate of disbursement of these loans has been satisfactory
with the exception of Loan 348-1NA to the Ilalaysian Industrial Development
Finance Iimited (NIDFL) because the demand for loans from MIDFL has been
lower than expected originally. However, it is expected that the balance
of this loan will be committed by June 30, 1968. Newq loans to Malaysia
for a water supply project, a telecommunications project and an education
project are expected to be presented to the Executive Directors fairly
shortly.
7.       IFC has made two equity investments and two loans.  The
investments are in MIDFL ($818,000) in conjunction with Loan 348-MA and



-3-
in Malayatrata Steel Limited ($1,016,000).  The loans are for Malayawata
Steel ($2,l51,0ooo) and for Tasek Cament Limited ($,156o,c00.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.        Borrower:        Ylalaysia
Beneficiary:     Federal Land Development Authority (FIDA)
Amount:          Various currencies equivalent to US$14i0
milli on
PUpose:          The clearing of about 33,000 acres of tropical
forest, the planting of nearly 28,000 acres of
oil palms, and the establishment of about 2,800
settler families3
Amortization:    25 semi-annual installments commencing June 1,
1976 and ending June 1, 1988.
Interest rate:   6-1/41 per annum
Commitment
Chare:         3/4 of 1% per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.       A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
appraisal report entitled "Jengka Triangle Project, M4alaysiall, (T0.617a)
dated March 28, 1968.
10.      M}alaysia's economy and exports are heavily dependent upon
agriculture, which directly contributes about one-third of GDP and
generates approximately half the foreign exchange earnings. However,
agriculture is very specialized with rubber accounting for about 60%
of total agricultural output by value. The Government is conscious of
the need to diversify agriculture in view of the decline in prices of
natural rubber in recent years, but opportunities for large scale
diversification are limited virtually to one crop, oil palms.
11.      The project for which the loan would be made consists of the
clearing of about 33,000 acres of tropical forest, the planting of
nearly 28,000 acres of oil palms and the settlement of about 2,800
rural families over a four-year period. Each settler family will be
provided with 10 acres of planted oil palms and a house and lot. The
main benefits expected from the project are the settlement of a sizeable
number of largely landless families which should obtain an income
several times the average prevailing in the rural sector, and the
further diversification of IMa.aysia's agriculture and exports.  Growing



-4-
conditions for oil paL2nm are particularly favorable in Malaysia, and the
prospects for exports and prices are good   The project would yield a
return to the economy of about 16'i and is expected to add some $10 million
annually to Malaysia's exports
12.      The Federal Land Development Authority (FIDA) whzich will be
responsible for carrying out the project has developed over the last ten
years 205,000 acres throughout 1Malaysia on which about 12,000 settler
families have already been established. Because this would be FIDA's
first attempt otl a large scale, a Jengka Division has bean established
within FIDA with responsibility for the project. Appointments to the
posts of Division Director, Head of Planting and Engineering Departmerts
have been made.  FIDA will carry out forest clearing, oil palm planting,
maintenance of the oil palms for an initial period after planting and
construction of buildings and housing, Other parts of the project, in
particular construction of roads, provision of water supplies and of
various social services will be carried out by the appropriate departments
of the Federal and State Governments.
13,      The total cost of the project is US$29.1 million.  The foreign
exchange component, inc'Luding interest on the Bank loan during the period
of disbursement of about eight years, is presently estimated at US$8.7
million, equivalent to about 600 of the proposed Bank loan of $14 million.
For administrative reasons, however, the Bank loan would be disbursed
only for parts of the project which are being executed directly by FLDA
and would cover an estimated US$3-5 million of foreign expenditures,
US$7.1 million of local expenditures and US$3-4 million of capitalized
interest.
l1.      Some financing of local currency expenditures is considered
appropriate in the case of this project in order to enable the Bank to
make a reasonably large contribution to the project's overall cost. As
explained in paragraph 19 below, i1alaysia's public investment program
in general has a relatively low foreign exchange component, and thus
Malaysia does need substantial external assistance in financing this
program.  Malaysia's fiscal efforts in recent years have been good, and
justify external support for local expenditures on priority projects.
15.      International competitive bidding would be used for land
clearing and oil palm planting, and for buildings and housing construc-
tion. However, since sufficient experienced contractors specializing
in this work are available in Malaysia it is expected that local
contractors vill bid successfully for this work. Palm oil machinery and
palm oil mill construction services, other equipment, materials and
supplies will also be procured through international competitive bidding.
Some of these goods, however, are manufactured in Malaysia and the
Government has asked the Bank to allow a margin of protection for local
manufacturers of 155% or the rate of customs duty, whichever is less.



-5-
l6c      Tie 3cvernment would re-lend the proceeds of the proposed Bank
loan to FEDA on the same financial terms,  FIDA in turn will sign credit
agreements with the settlers covering the full cost of his house, of
clearing his house-lot and developing ten acres of oil palms. Interest
on his loan from FLDA would be charged at 6-1/1% and would be capitalized
during the period of development. The settler would pay his loan by
equal annual install-ments of principal and interest over ten years,
*           commencing in the fifth year after palm planting.  Settlers would be
required to sell their produce to the palm oil mills owned and operated
by FIDA which would retain a part of the sale proceeds to meet loan
charges due.
PART IV - IEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17,      The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank, the
draft Project Agreement betxween the Bank and the Federal Land Development
Authority, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft Loan and Project Agreements
follow generally the usual pattern for this type of project.
PART V - TH9E DCONIOi'
18.      The most recent economic report on Malaysia (r'S_l27a) was cir-
culated to the Executive Directors as follows: Volume I (MIain Report)
on May 29, 1967 (R67-72), Volume II (Agriculture in West Malaysia) on
July 19, 1967 (R67-l1O).  A merioorandum updeating the information in the
economic report is attached; it points out that although the economy has
been hit by the slump in the price of rubber, the prospects for further
growth at about 5% per annum remain good as long as public and private
investm.ent activity can be sustained.
19.      Public investment, after a sharp spurt in the early 1960's is
now held back by internal and external finance constraints. The Govern-
ment is making substantial efforts to curtail the growith of current
expenditures, but even if it is successf'ul, it will not yet be possible
to raise the level of public savings significantly because the growth in
revenues is affected adversely by the downward trends in export prices.
The need for additional external finance will thus remain,  The Government's
strategy is to diversify away prom the traditional rubber and tin sectors
into new fields, which require substantial additional investments mainly
in the rural areas. The investment program as a whole thus has a relatively
low foreign exchange content, and this characteristic has held back the
flow of external finance, resulting in a slowdown in the development pro-
gram. Malaysia used reserves to the extent of US$70 million last year in
order to avoid a more serious cut-back in public investment.



-6-
20.      Since Malaysia has only recently had to borrow from abroad on a
large scale, the external debt outstanding is loTw, with a debt service
ratio of about 2.12. The country can well afford to incur substantial
additional debt on a mixture of IBRD-type and commercial terms.
PLRT VI - COAiPIPTANCE W4ITH A RYIC23S OF AGREEUMNT
21.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RIECOIYiENDATION
22.      I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOIOTION 700
.iproval of L-oan to Halaysia in an
amount equivalent to US$1000000
RESOLVED:
TIAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Malaysia in an amount in
various currencies equivalent to fourteen million United States dollars
(U.S.$l4,oco,ooo), to mature on and prior to June 1, 1988, to bear
interest at the rate of six and one quarter per cent (6-l1/1%) per annum,
and to be upon such other terms and cond-tions as e3hall be substantially
in accordance -vfith the terms and conditions set forth in the form of
Loan Agreement (Jengka Triangle Project) between Malaysia and the Bank
and in the form of Project Agreement (Jengka Triangle Project) between
the Bank and the Federal Land Development Authority which have been
presented to this meeting.
George D. Wiloods
President
Washington, D.C.
March 28, 1968



