TO-617
This report was preoared for use within the Bonk and its affilicted organizations.
They do not accept resconsibility for its accurcy or completeness. The report may    I
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.             !
LNTEZNIATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN,
LNTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
JENG-KA TRIANGLE PROJECT
4MALAYSIA
March 2S, 1968
Proiects Department FIlE COPY



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
I Malaysian dollar    =   U. S. $ 0. 327
1 U.S. $             =   M$ 3.06
M$ I million         =   U.S.$ 327, 000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
British/U. S. System
1 mile               -    1.6093 kilometers
1 acre               =   0. 4047 hectares
1 square mile        =   2. 59 square kilometers
1 pound (lb)         =   0. 454 kilograms



MALAYSIA
JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY
I.   INTRODUCTION   ................ ......................1
II. BACKGROUND                 1....    1
A. Land Settlement.                                         2
B.   The Federal Land Development Authority (FLDA) .        2
C. The Jengka Triangle Program.                             3
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                            4
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                  5
A. Project Definition.                                      5
B. Pattern of Settlement.                                   6
C. Development Schedule.                                    7
D. The Southeast Town.                                      9
E. Processing Facilities.                                   9
F. Research and Training .10
G. Cost Estimates .11
H. Proposed Financing .12
V.   ORGANIZATION, MANAGE1,ENT AND SETTrIEMNT PROCEDURES .       14
A.   General1 14
B. Settler Selection .15
C.   Settlers' Credit Arrangements .16
D.  Settlers' Land Tenure Arrangements         .lO
E.   Settlement Operating Procedures .17
F. Jengka Division .17
G.  Processing Settlement Produce .........                19
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND SETTLERS' BENEFITS                  20
A. Yields and Production .20
B. Marketing and Prices .20
C.   Settler's Operating Results .20
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Malaysia
in May/June 1967 composed of Messrs. Rowe, Carnemark, Walden (of the Bank)
and Miller (of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program).



VII.       AO EIT   JST'ICATTON  *.........................
VI-I. CGMCLNCUU-SICNS AND RECCYO.,M.TDATTCttS  .....................
1.   The Jenska Triangle Master Plaa
2.   The Federal Land Develonment Aku:horirty
3.  7Village Size
4.   Sc&edule olf Land Clearing and Pa2  Plantilng
5.   ScheduJ.e of Vilage and I -:'-?ctrc e :evelorment
6.   Froject Costs and Disbursementt Esti=ates
7.   FLflA Estimted Sotrce and disnositio  of  knds re Jenrag
3.   Setttler Sel ectin
9.   cettl'eMent Oterati.Icn and Ad=mnistraticn.
1v.  Professional and Technical Staff ?eauire=ents
"2..  Gil Pa1l  Yield Estimtes, ?, C,1 and Kerels
12.  Pri ce and Market Prcsvect.s f_r Pa-- -?rca"Uce
'13.  Faz= Budget of a TylpicoJ Settler
4.  Est-mated Yields, Benefits and Costs
MAPS
:    Jengks T3r;ang'e Prcgram:  Lcation and Cro-lig.
_    Jeng4a Triangle Pro,ect:  Phas ing of Deve lo=ent.



II4LAYSIA
JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
SUVMARY
i.        The Federal Goverrment of Malaysia has asked the Bank for a loan
to help finance the land settlement program of the Federal Land Development
Authority (FLDA) in the Jengka Triangle.  A Bank mission visited Malaysia in
1963 to review the government's plans for land settlement and in 1965 the
Bank made a technical assistance grant to the Government for a detailed
survey of the area known for its location and shape as the Jengka Triangle,
and the preparation of a development plan for its systematic settlement.
Consultants have prepared a "Master Plan" for the regional development of
the whole area including some 93,000 acres of crops, the settlement of
9,000 families over about 12 years, 1966-1977, and the systematic exploi-
tation of its forest resources. The project which is the subject of this
report would be the first stage of Jenigka Triangle development and covers
about one-third of the total area.
ii.       FLDA, a statutory corporation of the Government, has already
developed 205,000 acres of land in various States of Malaysia and has
settled 12,000 families on these.  The project for which Bank assistance
is sought would result in the planting of nearly 28,000 acres of oil
palms and the settlement of about 2,800 farm families over a four year
period. Settlers, who would be drawn largely from the segment of the rural
population who have either little or no land, and who are at best under-
employed, would be alloted ten acres of planted oil paJlms, a house and
a small houselot each.
iii.      The project would be developed as seven schemes, each incorporating
at least one village, and nroviding holdings for an average of 400 settlers.
Each scheme would have sunporting Government services, including schools,
health centers and treated water supplies. Central crop processing facil-
ities would also be made availabl} under the project. The settlers would
be able to repay costs of oil palm establishment and settlement with in-
terest over a reasonable period of time. During the repayment period
settler incomes are expected to average M$3,000 per annum net after repay-
ments and subsesuently M$4,300; both incomes are significantly greater
than those prevailing in rural communities in Malaysia.
iv.       The estimated expenditure necessary to implement the project is
US$29.1 million equivalent. The project is technically and economically
sound and is suitable for a Bank loan of US$14 million for a term of
20 years including a grace period of eight years. The borrower would be
the Government of Malaysia.



MALAYSIA
JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has requested a Bank loan to assist
in financing a land settlement project (the project). This comprises
34,500 acres and would be the first phase of a large regional development
program in the Jengka Triangle (the Program).  The Jengka Triangle is in
the State of Pahang in West Malaysia, scme 120 miles northeast of Kuala
Lumpur.  The main crop would be oil nalms, and a total of about 28,000
acres of this crop would be cultivated by some 2,800 settlers.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of a mission in May/June,
1967, consisting of Messrs. Rove, Carnemark, Walden (of the Bank) and
Miller (of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program). The regional development
program of which this project is the first stage is based on a study of
the Jengka Triangle region made by Tippetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton and
Hunting Technical Services Ltd., which was financed in part by a Bank
technical assistance grant.  In conjunction therewith, two Bank missions
visited Malaysia, in July 1963 (Messrs. Creyke, Wapenhans and Muller) and
in February 1966 (Messrs. Creyke and Dumoulin).
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      Malaysia's economy is heavily dependent upon agriculture which
directly contributes about one-third of GDP and is the largest source of
employment and foreign exchange earnings. At the same time, agriculture
is very specialized, with rubber accounting for abou- 60 percent of total
agricultural output by value, employing 30 percent of the national labor
force, and generating approximately 50 percent of the Federation's foreign
exchange earnings.
2.02      In recent years natural rubber prices have gradually declined in
face of increasing competition from synthetics. While the Government is
conscious of the need, opportunities for large scale and equally remuner-
ative diversification are limited virtually to one crop, oil palms. As
a result of an efficient program of research in the private sector and
good growing conditions for the crop, oil palm yields are high in Malaysia,
and on average considerably greater than those obtained elsewhere. Yields
at this level assure a high profitability of the crop even on the basis of
declining long-term prices for palm oil and kernels.
2.03      The area under oil palms in Malaysia has doubled over the past
ten years to a present 200,000 acres, and is rapidly increasing. Much of
the new acreage consists of old rubber areas which have been replanted with
oil palms. While there is some private smallholder development of oil
palms, 80 percent of the acreage is owned by commercial estates and the
bulk of the remainder comprises Government sponsored land settlement schemes.



-2-
A.  Land Settlement
2.o4       A series of events - the depression prior to World War 1,
World War II itself with the Japanese occupation, followed by the
Cc=unist emergency - spanning the early 1930's to the late 1950's,
resulted in the cultivated acreage renaining static for more than 20
years.  By 195c, despite the availability of substaatial areas of good
land, there were scme 115,000 land applications outstanding and a consider-
able 'ar" of the ropulation was landless and une=vloyed or undere=mloyed.
Land in Malaysia is owned by the States, and individuals and planting
comnaanies obtain iong-tern leases, usually of 99 years, for which they
pay rent. The procedures of alienation 1/ of land led to a scattered
and inefficient pattern of development and tended to favor large ccm=anies
and relatively wealth.y individuals.  Until 1961, qualified individuals
or ccmpanies wshizng to obtain land, arnlied for speciffic parcels to the
iccal District Officer, and following consideration by the State author-
ities leases wouLd be issued.
2.05      In 1956 the Federal and State G-overments agreed thst future
a ienation would need to be properly planned, and particular emphasis
placed on provinding land for the grvowing landless pcvulaticn.  However,
effective programs were not introduced until 1961.  Since that time alien-
ation has been conducted largely under settlement schemes operated by the
Federal and State Gover=nents.  Some 220,000 acres had been opened up through
controlled alienation by the end of 1965.  Catering largely for the landless,
apcroxinately 50 rercer.t of such controlled alienation has been under the
control of the Federal Land Develorment Authorit-y (7LDA) while the remainder
sas under a variety of State schemes.  The performance of State schemes has
been variable, many being handicazped by the inability of the States to
pro-ide adequate management and supporting services.  The 1966-1970 Malaysia
Plan calls ffor oceving up an additional 400,000 to 4so,000 acres, and of
this 300,000 acres are allocated for settlement programs and the remainder
for development by the private sector.
B.  The Federal Land Develotment Authority (F'!A)
2.06       FLDA was established in 1956 as an independent statutory corp-
oration with the duty and 'owers to "...promote and. assist the invwestvigation,
for_ulaticn and carrying out of projects of the development of new areas
fcr land settlement ir. the Federation".  F?LA has a Board of Directors
which exercises a relatively high degree o' freedom in the i=le=entation
of its land settlement schemes and which is responsible to th'e Minister
of National ard Fural Develocment.  A fuller description of 7-FA is
contained in Annex 2.
1/   The te-r  "alienation", as used in Malaysia, refers to the  ra-nt by th.e
States off leases to indivcduals or coaoorations of undevelozed land for
pu.poses of develcment and subsequentr retention by the deve'ocer during
the neriod of the lease.



-3-
2.07      Between 1957 and the end of 1966, FILDA had spent M$149 million 1/
on develoning 158,000 acres of rubber and oil palm. By the end of 1967,
the area planted with rubber and oil palm had increased to 185,000 acres
out of a total of 205,000 acres developed, and 12,000 families had been
settled 2/. The Federal Government 'plans that by the end of 1970 a total
of 145,0o0 acres of rubber and 129,000 acres of oil palms will have been
planted and some 30,700 families settled by FLDA. Overall expenditures,
1957 through 1970, are estimated to total about M$450 million (US$150 mil-
lion), of which about M$300 million are to be spent in the 1966-1970 Plan
period.
C. The Jengka Triangle Program
2.08      The Jengka Triangle is named for its location and shape (Map 1)
and is situated in an undeveloped area in the State of Pahang.  It covers
about 300,000 acres (470 square miles), of which about 136,000 acres are
already occupied or reserved in some way, while 164,000 acres of suitable
land remain available for development. The area is at present mainly under
natural rain forest.
2.09      In 1963 a Bank mission reviewed the development plans for, and
potential of, the Triangle. In 1965 a technical assistance grant vas
made by the Bank to the Federal Government to help finance a comprehensive
study of the area and the preparation of an integrated regional develop-
ment plan. For this purpose consultants 3/ were employed, who in January
1967 presented a Master Plan for the development of the Triangle. In
all but certain administrative details (para. 4.03) this plan has been
accepted by the Government, and is referred to as the Jengka Triangle Pro-
gram in this report.  (Fuller details of the Jengka Triangle Program are
contained in Annex 1.) Wdhile earlier settlement activities involved small
schemes scattered throughout Malaysia and conveniently located in relation
to existing infrastructure facilities, this i' the first attempt at the
large scale and concentrated development of virgin lands.
2.10      In brie4, the Program calls for the comprehensive development
of the Triangle in a succession of projects over the period 1966-1977.
The Program envisages the settlement of the Triangle by some 9,000 farm
families cultivating 93,000 acres of oil palms and rubber, the orderly
1/   This figure does not represent total development costs since it
excludes expenditures incurred by the Federal and State Governments
and should, therefore, not be compared with the project costs
appearing in this report.
2/   More settlers will be placed on the 205,000 acres developed.  Settle-
ment generally lags one to two years behind crop planting.
3/   Tinpetts-Abbett-McCarthy-Stratton and Hunting Technical Services Ltd.
were the principal consultants. They were supported by forestry
consultants and the Economist Intelligence Unit of London, England.



_4-
exploitation of forest resources in the process of land clearing, and the
establishment of a permanent forest products processing industry based on
the sustained yield of the 47,OCO acres off permanent forest which would not
be cleared. Areas to be occupied by roads, villages, towns, and factories
plus unusable land total 24,000 acres.  The Program is phased in such a way
that all co- rcial ti=ner removed in the clearing of land for agricultu^ral
use would be marketed, initially as logs, but subsequently as processed
timber.  The size and intensity of the Program requires the provision of a
comprehensive infrastructure, a wide range of government services and the
eventual establishment of three new townships, the largest of which would
become a new regional administrative headauarters servicirng the Triangle and
i.ts adjacent areas.  Full develonment of the Triangle Program would involve
capital e=cenditure estimated at about m.347 million (US$116 million).
2.11      T.>he pro"ect ncw submitted to the Bara for financi.ng is the first
stage of the Triargle Progam and ccprises about one-thi.rd of the total
program. ti enccmtasses the eastern secticn of the Triangle and totals
34,500 acres of undeveloned la-d, mcstly rain forest (Man 2).  This area has
been selected for first stage development because it is relatively easily
accessible, borders onrto existi.ng F7DA schemes at three pcints, contains
negligible timber of cc-mercial value and renresents a seifcontained -riable
project even iff the Triangle ?rogram should not be i=lemented in ful.  it
is a convenient staz.ng point for- the Triangle develo-ment si nce .t can be
i-mnlemented i4nediately within the framework off FLLA's presenrt activites.
II1. TITHE PROJECT A-RFA
3.01      The Jemzka ridge, rising to 1,100 feet in parts, and two miles
broad at its widest point, sena-ates the zroject area frcm the rest of the
Triangle.  Due to steep slones, the ares of the ridge is unsuitable for
cultivation and would remain under forest.  Elsewhere, the project area
^:c=rises land of moderate relief dissected by an intricate system oL-
branching streams and the amcunt of land too steep fo. tree cror cu'tiva-
tion is nregligible.
3.02      Freely drained soils derived frcm sedimentaxr rocks cover the
greater part of the area.  The soils a-re czm=lex and their di.stribution
pattern is intricate.  On an assessment of slope and scil characteristics,
53 percent of the area is classed as land pcssessing a high potential for
agricu ltral develorment and the remainder as land with moderate potential
and best suited to crops having a wi-e range of soil tolerance.  Climate
is marticularly well suited to the cultivation of oil palms and rubber.
3.03      The mrodect area has no permanent population but some tem=orary
employment has been, and still is, affcrded 'byr loggiing operations.  The whole
Triadnle, including the prouect ares, is owned by  the State of P?ahang and
has been declared by the latter as a Federal Develoo=ent Area.  Under the



provisions of the Land (Group Settlement Areas) Act of 1960, this means
that the land is nov vested in FLDA. Some 20 Dercent of the area is a
Malay National Reserve and, as such, may, under law, be settled by Malays
only. In practice, however, this would not present problems since it is
expected that at least 50 percent of the settlers would be Malays.
3.04      Adequate supplies of good quality surface water are available
in the project area, and no problems are foreseen in obtaining adequate
water supplies for either settlement villages or crop zrocessing facilities.
3.05      The project area borders on three existing FLDA schemes, Ulu
Jempol, an oil palm scheme, and two rubber schemes, Sungai Tekam and Bukit
T4ajau. While the FLDA owned palm oil mill at Ulu Jempol would form part
of the project and would be expanded in capacity to cater for roughly half
of project fresh fruit bunch (ffb) 1/ production, the three existing
settlement schemes would not be incorporated in the proJect.  However,
these would provide convenient bases for the commencement and supervision
of project development.
3.06      The proJect area has good access to the national road system,
and its planned internal roads would liMnk with the existing network.
National Route II which forms the area's southern boundary would connect
the area to Pcrt Swettenham (145 miles) and Mentakab (20 miles), Map 1.
At Mentakab, the railway provides connections with Kuaia Lumpur, Singapore
and Port Swettenham; the last would be the port used for project import
and export traffic.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Definition
4.01      The project consists cf the clearing for cultivation and village
sites of about 33,000 acres of tropical rain forest from which all market-
able timber would have been removed, and its settlement by some 2,770
settler families.  It is expected that the area planted with oil palms
would total approximately 28,000 acres 2/ and that some 5,000 acres would
be occupied by the settlers' villages, other associated facilities and
some land which, although cleared, would be unsuitable for oil palms and
would be used for other agricultural purposes by the settlers. Each
1/   ffb - the product of the oill nalm, is a cluster of individual fruits.
Each fruit consists of a nut, which contains the palm kernel, surrounded
by oily flesh from which palm oil is extracted.
2/   Soil survey results indicate that oil palms would be best suited on
all but 2,000 acres of the 28,000 acres. Depending on the behavior of
rubber prices, this area may be planted with rubber or alternatively
left under forest. In the latter case both costs and output would be
reduced roughly proportionate to those expected for the project area
as a whole.



settler would be nrorided with ten acres of planted oil palams, a house,
and a houselot of one-cuarter acre. Settlers -would remay the full costs
of develonment under approtriate credit arran2esents, as set forth in
paras. 4.20 and 5.07.  Necessary infrastructure, treated water sumnlies,
FTLDA owned and onerated malm produce processing facilities and an FLDA
research and training center would be included in the mroject, and suffi-
cient land would be reserred in the area to allow the subsecuent develon-
ment of a tcwn (the Southeast town, nara. 4.10) to serve the nro.ject.
4.02      The zro1ect would have an estimated population of about 2L,000,
of wnich about 19,000 would be settlers and their fam-ilies. At full
production, the project -wou'd nroduce an averaze of some 5L,oC0  tons of
palm oil and 13,000 tons of palm kernels annually, a-l of which would be
exzorted.
B. Pattern of Settlement
4.03      The project would be develoned as seven schemes, each with i.s
own village which would be sited centrally in- its nlantinzs of oil np-<
(Mar 2).  This would recuire each village to acco=odate about  OC0 settler
famiIies. a small number of FLDA ,ersonnel Pand other Government e=loyees,
and to orovide space for normal commercial development 1/.  A vil"age of
this tyne is no-w the standard FLDA unit, and the Govern=ent firml-r believres
that it is the nos- amnrorriate unit to em-ploy for the nroject.  It would
'e a satis:factorjy administrative unit.  The concentration of nurchasinz
zower would nrovide sufficient incentives for com=ercial develon.=ent, it
would sumrort the nro,rision of Government services, And would cconly with
the  aovern-ent's present colicr with rezard to security ccnsiderations.
Snecific site selecticn and detailed village mlanninz w-ould nrecede the
actual location of villages, and because of topogranhic proble=s, a some-
-what different 7nattern of villaze  evelonnent may e=erze fcr the rroject
than the seven lar-e villares now tronosed.  Assurances have been obtained
rom thte Government that detailed surveys wculd nrecede ,-llaae sitinz, and
that village sizes would be adonted which 4woulld p.er.t a-olication of satis-
factory standards of village planning,  including the need to ser,ice as-
sociated oil palm -lantings efficiently.  The need to use smaller units could
increase some nroject costs, but probably only those of mroviding water
sunplies.  In t-rn these would be offset by savings in t.he costs of roads
and drai'naae which would occur- by using a smaller runit.  The maJor elements
of social inr-astructure costs, such as schools and health clinics, vary
directly with ronulation size, and as such would have an i-siznifica:
effect on oroject costs.
1/   The consultants nronosed village units of about  OC families each.
These would haave the advantages of shorter travellinw distances for
settlers to their plantaticrs , and vwould be easier to site in the
broken tonogra;nnry of the  r:.arle.  Th-.e relative merits of :C00 fam'ily
and 4dO f-amily units are considered in An_Lnex 3.  No siznIficart eco-
ncric adva-:a;es can be snown for either unit.



-7-
4.04      Since 25 percent of the populat-on would be of primary school
age, each village would have a primary school.  A secondary school would
be established for every two villages to cater for the 70 percent of
primary school students expected to continue their education. In addition,
the villages would each have a postal agency, police sub-station, and
telephone communications. The project area as a whole would be serviced by
four health centers and three maternity clinics which would be built in
the villages.
C. Develonment Schedule
Land Clearing and Croc Establishment
4.05      Marketable timber has been extracted from 27,000 acres of the
project area and concessions have been allocated for logging the remaining
6,000 acres. The following table, which is elaborated in Annex 4, shows
the proposed schedule of forest clearing and oil palm planting:
LAND CLEARING ANrD PAN:L PLANTING
(Acres)
Year Commencing October:    1966         1967      1968      1969   1970    Total
Forest Clearing             4,840  1/  8,130 2/  10,540   9,600        -    33,110
Oil Palm Planting             -         4,070 2/   7,030   8,815   7,785  27,700
1/   Completed.
2/   In progress.
The development of each of the seven schemes would be phased and completed
in an average of three years.
4.o6      Forest clearing, oil palm planting and the maintenance of the
palms for a period of up to twelve months after planting would be under-
taken by contractors who would be employed by FLDA. This is FLDA's normal
practice which has resulted in very high agricultural standards on existing
FLDA schemes. Sufficient mrivate contracting capacity exists for project



purposes. FLDA would conduct some work itself using casual labor prior to
the arrival of settlers on the scheme, but generally this -c'uld be restricted
to such tasks as fertilizer a-vp7ication where there is a -ossibl'ty that
contractors' labor would misuse or isannrcoriate materials 1.
Develorment of Villages and Infrastructure
4.07      Settlers would arrive on the scheme anprroxJmaely one year after
palm planting.  This would set the timetable for village site selection,
nouse construction and initial village development.  Tne timetable ls shown
in full in Annex 5 and is sumarized below:
VILLAGES AND IRF?AST?UCTURE
1967     1908      1969       1970       1971       Total
Primary roads (mi)    3          6        10.5        -          -         19.5
Secondarr  roads (=i)  2         8         7          6          -         23
Village roads (ml)    -          7.5       6.5       16.3      14.i        4L.L
Settlers houses         -      483       405       1057       825       2"73
Staff cuarters         -        21        2.         65        42         149
Offices and stores    -          '          .         3         2           7
Water supply
systems (comleted) -          1         1          3        2           7
'.O_)    FLDA would employ contractors for clearing the village area and
constructing buildirngs (para. 4.19).  The provision of water supplies and
construction of roads would be the responsibility of the Public 'Works Derart-
ment of the State of Pahang.  Adequate private contracting capacity is avail-
able for the building programs.  With sunrort from the Federal "epartment
of Public  Works, p-ticularly in the supply of ecuipment and spare parts,
the Stat-e o  Pahang would be able to execute its part of the prosram.
4.oc      Following the initial phase of vi'lage develcopment, other dert-
=ents of both Federal and State Goverrment3 would bq resronsible fcr nrc-
viding adeauate educational, health, postal, police and other co 'snity
facilities and services in accordance with the following schedule:
1/   The alternative of using settler or directly-employed labor on work
other than this has proved to be more ex=ensive and less efficient.
Apart fr= -resenting a difficult  a.an genent crc'lem to 7TFDA, the
crux of wich would be the recruitment: of adecuate nu-mbers of
experienced su-ervis ory staff, settlers lack skills in. forest
clearing and pal- planting and this out!weizhs the a=arer.t cost
adrar.tao;e of their subsistence ws&es.



-9-
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973
Primary Schools             1        1       3        2       -        -
Secondary Schools           -        -       1       1        1        1
Health Centers and
Maternity Clinics         1        1       3       2        -        _
Police posts               12        1       3        2       -        -
Telephone installations    1         1       3        2       -        -
High priorilty is given by Federal and State Governments to the provision
of these services arnd facilities on FLDA schemes.  Rural development under
FLDA is efficiently organized and much experience has been gained of the
successful integration of the activities of different Government Depart-
nents.
D. The Southeast Town
42.10     The Southeast town, one of three proposed in the Master Plan for
the Triangle, would be sited in, or adjacent to, the project area. Studies
of rural-urban relationships in West Malaysia indicate that the ultimate
population of the project area, approximately 24,000, would suiport an
urban population of 4,000. Existing townships outside the project area
are either unsuitable for expansion or badly sited to serve the needs of
the proJect population.  The speed with which the southeast town would
develop would be affected by thAe size of the project villages; if the
majority were small units the town would develop more rapidly than if they
were larger. About 500 acres would be reserved for urban development.
The area has yet to be selected, but during negotiations assurances were
obtained from. the Government that a suitable site would be identified and
reserved.  Construction of the town would not form part of the project and
would be the responsibility of the Government.
E.  Processing Facilities
4.11      Seventy-three tons/hour of ffb processing capacity would be
required ultimately for processing the production of the project acreage
and that of the adjacent Ulu Jempol scheme. The project would include
increasing the capacity of the existing FLDA Ulu Jempol Mill from 3 tons/
hour to 43 tons/hour and the siting and construction of a new FLDA 30 tons/
hour mill to be located in the southern part of the project area. These
facilities would be constructed in stages according to the following
schedule:



- ~- 10 _
VE'V  O      OT 0. V?OCZSSTING OA?CITY: B0J  .C rL..
(Tons fb /hour)
1967    1969    1971   1973    9974    1975           Total
Ulu Jempol        3        8       13      23       33      43           43
New Mill          -        -        -       -        0      -0           30
Total           3        8       13      23      43       73          73
=~~~ -t   
The finaJ planned capaclity of each iill, although larger than currently in
use irn Malaysia, is technically feasible and is based on an economic rate
of throu=hout as well as consideraticns of transocrt.
4.12      At present, FIDA is acqui.ring its p     oil mi-lls by turn key
contracts with a Euronean manufacturer.  Lower costs can be obtained by
cu-zhasirg, in. Maaysia, a nub::oer o' items of equitm ent that are manufac-
tu=ed locally.  FIZA intends to use increasingly locally-manufactured
ecui=ment in its  r-ocessn  facites. This  ould require employment
of a mill consultant for the vroiecc to advise on mill' designs and specific-
at:.ons and to superrise construction cf the prolezt   lls.  Assurances were
obta 4en frod   the Gcaver::=ent t..at a sui tab1rl  cualified coanstInt acceptable
to the Bran -would be enraged.
w.1- 3     .e mi11s would be connected to th-e rational zr4mary road netwcrk
by roads of a c=ar:ab-le standard, th.us enabling 12.5 ton pay-load palm oil
taukers to be used for the shi=ent of oil.  Each mill would be equipped
w-th tank storage for tw;o morths' oil zroduction.  Ffb would be transported
to the mills by five ton dump trucks, for which the standards of the aari-
cultural roads established under the land clearance and palm planting
contracts would be suitable.  The layout of the agricultural roads would
be such that t'he manual carry of ff'b to roadside pick-up points wou_d not.
exceed 130 yards.
F.  Researchn an-d Traniriz
4.114      Azoroximately 950 acres o' land at the Ulu Jenrol scheme have
been set aside for research and training purposes. FL3A schemes in general
would benefit from th;ese facilities, an.d in nartLcular, the Triangle Progran
due to th.e similarity of soils and climate. .Ab7out 400 acres wculd be
employed for progeny trials and seed prodiuction, and the latter would be
revenue earnrnl.  Another 150 acres wouli be used for oil palm fertilizer
trials and 350 acres for adaotive research on other crons and livestock.
mThis latter work is mcst important since onzortunities for remunerative
diversification are few at present.  The training center wculd provide
facilities for 60 stadents and would be operated by FD1A.  The research
and training faC,il4iies would need to be established as early as zcssible



to support the preparation of future stages of Triangle Development. It
is proposed that part of the capital cost of the research and training units
would be financed by the proposed loan. The Government would finance the
recurrent costs of these facilities by annual grants to FFLDA.
G. Cost Estimates
4.15      Project costs are estimated at M$79 million (US$26 million) ex-
cluding interest during construction. Estimates of unit costs, which have
been agreed with FLDA, are based on the experience of both FLDA and private
estates. For its estimates, FLDA uses maximum costs for representative
conditions which, comnared against actual unit costs, indicate between 5 per-
cent and 10 percent contingencies.  The greater part of zroiect costs, with
the exception of oil mills and staff salaries, represents payment to small
local contractors who would employ temnorary labor, and to settlers working
under FLDA direction. The source of this labor is the large number of un-
employed in West MSlaysia (estimated currently at 5.9 percent of the labor
force) V/. Labor costs are not expected to rise as long as the cost of
living remains stable 2/. Therefore, no general contingency has been added
to project costs other than those of the palm oil mills and staff salaries.
4.1.6     The following table shows the breakdown of project costs and
their foreign exchange element, fuller details appear in Annex 6:
1/   IBRD Report No. AS-127.
2/   The cost of living in Malaysia has risen only 3.4 percent over the last
four years, and there are no indications that any rise in the cost of
living will be significantly more rapid over the next four years.



- 12 -
SUTiARY ?pR ,JCT C^ST 3TIMATES
(mfiJ.i.ons)
Foreign
Exchange as
Loeal    Foreign    Percent of
Tot al    Crrena   Dxchange         Total
(M$s)  ( 7;:S e)  (us$     (u US$)      s)
-LDA Ther.ditures
Agricultural Develoo-ment       30.0   9.8      8.7        1.1           11.0
Xousiry3                         5.4   1.8      1.7                        5
Processing Facilities            9.9   3.2      1.1        2.1            60.6
Research and Training             .9    .3       .3       ( .2           12.3
FLDA Seririces                 10.8   3.5       3.3       (__              3.9
Siub-Tot l                  57.0  18.6    15.1          3.5           18.8
r.terest d_,ring
'stablishment                10 .4   3.1       _         3. iC0.0
ToT a. FLDA                 67.)4  22.0    15.1         6.            31.4
O;vernent Exendtures
P.oads and Water Supp-ies       14.3   4 .7     3.2        1.5           31.9
Social Infras4ructure            7J.!   2.4     2.1         .3          '12. .
Ttal Government             21.7   7.1       5 .3       1.8          :25.4
Total Prcject Ccsts               89.1  29.1    20.4         8.7            20.2
Tztal projiec-t costs including FILDA interest during eswablishment would thus
be US.$29. .Ill1on equivalent with ar. estimated foreign ccmnonent of ab>out
30 nercent or US$8.7 r-i lion evn.ivalent.
H. Pronosed F.inasncin_
4.17      A Bank 'loan of US$14 millicn (.442.8 mill'cn) would 'ce made tc
the Government for a term of 20 years, including a grace ceriod of eight
years. The loan would include interest financed at the rate of 6¼ percen.
during the disbursement period, wnich would amount to apoproximately US`3.14
'illion ()ASio.4 raili4on). The Bank loan would finance 48 zercent ct o toetL
Jro,jec: costs which would total US$29.1 million (M$89.1 miIlion) i=cludii.
in.:eres: on t.e Bank loan.  Th.e balance of project costs would be met by the
Governent. The Governmentt would on-lend the Bank loan to FL,DA on t"le sane
terms, covering about 65 ciercent of the latterr's exoenditure on the  _rz ect.
The fllong table shows the contributions to uro Ject financirig to be made
bv th-e Govern-ent and the  arnk ioan:



- 13 -
SUMMA.RY OF PROJECT FINANCING
(M$ MiLlion)
FLDA and Government       Interest during         Total
Expenditure            Construction       Project Costs
Government                     46.3                     -               46.3
Bank Loan                      32.4                   10.4              42.8
Total                     T8.7                  10.4               89.1
Disbursement
4.16      The Bank lcan would be disbursed against FLDA expenditures only.
Disbursements of 100 percent would be made against payments to contractors
for land clearing and palm planting, buildings and housing construction,
and expenditure on calm oil mill expansion and constraction which would
total about US$9.6 million.  Disbursements would be made also against
shirping docm=ents for equipment, materials and supplies, or, if procured
locally, against 70 percent of the on-site cost of these, approximately
US$1.1 million. An.ex 6 shows details of estimated expenditures and related
disbursem.ents. Disbursements against other Government expenditures for roads
and water surplies with an estimated foreign exchange content of US$1.5 mil-
lion have been considered but are not recommended.
Procurement
4.19      International competitive bidding would be used to obtain land
clearing and oil palm planting, and buildings and housing construction
services.  However, since sufficient experienced contractor capacity
specializing in this work is available in Malaysia it is expected that
this will be carried out by local contractors.  Palm oil mill machinery
and palm oil mill construction services, other equipment, materials and
suoplies would also be procured through international competitive bidding.
A range of goods required for the project is manufactured or assembled in
Malaysia.  Importantly, this includes fertilizers, vehicles and palm oil
mill comporents. In view of the importance of industrial production to
Malaysia the Bank agrees that local manufacturers should be allowed a margin
of protection of 15 percent or the customs duty, whichever is less.
Loan Repayment
4.20      Settlers would be required to sell all their ffb to the FLDA
owned and onerated nroject palm oil mills, and FLDA would recover their
loans through retention of a portion of sales receipts on settlers' accounts.
These arrangements would enable FLDA to repay the Bank loan to the Government
in approximately 18 years. The duration of the Bank's loan to the Government
would be 20 years, thus alloving a margin for unforeseen circnmstances, and



- ~~- 124 -
renayment would coence in the eighth year, fol 'lowimg a grnce period in
which irnterest would be caoitalized.  After the seventh year, repayments by
;roj4ect settlers to FLDA would generate sufficient f=ds to cover the
latter's naygmenvs af principal and interest on the Bank loan to the
-aernen.ert.
V.  OP.GANIZATION, HMANAGEMENT A?ID SETLE1B.ET P?oCEDURFIS
A. General
.Ol      The technical standards of FLDIA are high and ha-re resulted in well-
established crops and infrastructure, and good maintenance on its existir.;
settle-'ents. ;;cwever, some asrects o f its cverations Are not yet suffi-
ciently for=alized; in ;articular, settlers' credit and land tenure arranze-
ments.
5.02      Although it is now prenared to do so, the Federal Govern=ent has
not yet decided on the ters and conditions of settlers' credits, and the
rovisions and cualifications of settlers' titles.  Past indecision re-
sulted largelY f-rm the Governrment's desire to zrovride for ecuitable set-
t'Ier incomes.  The latter, however, is difficult to achieve since existin2
FLDA schemes vaxy 'oy main crcn, e`.ther rubber or oil raims, and by size of
=1 1.ai:Zs.  Income equality car onLy be achieved if settlers on larger --nd
.ore trofitable holdings (rarticularly oil oa'm holdings) are naid less
than  ar:ket value for their nroduce or, Alternatively, a substantial tozricn.
of' :.e develcz-cent costs of the smaller and less Drof'itable holdings is
s-sorbed as a Gcvernnent subsidy.  The Federal Government has nct yet taken
a _ec_sion cn this matter and., consequently, FLDA has been unable to enter
i.o f.nal arranzements for loan renavments with its present settlers.
5.23      Until mid-1967, where settlements were in production, deductions
were -ade by FLDA from the sale of settlers' pr-oduce to meet loarn re-ayvments
,h4ic  hr.ad vet to be nranerly quantified.  Subsequently, systems of zuaran-
teeinz each settler a minimum of M$100 ner month and d4 iding any su-plus
revenue, net of this and ctheer outgoinzs, between th.e settler and FIDA have
been emnloyed, althcuzh individual settler's loan renayment schedules have
not been established.  Ccncurrent with this and basifically for the same
reasons, sett,lers have not yet been granted tit'es.  The rescnsibility
for this situation lies with the Government and not with FLDA, whose manaze-
ment is well aware of the need to clarify the situation and to enter into
,indin_  agreements with its settlers.
5.o4      T-he future financial situation of the executing agency (FLDA)
cannot be reasonabbly predicted in the absence of snecified ler.di4ng ter-s
for settlers, arnd it -wil become increasinzly difficult to maintaln good
relations with settlers wlthout clarification of the matters of credit and
title.  Tr. the absence of for. al arrangements for recovering  oaDns fror its
settl- 'ers and desnite t.e very easy -r mns on nW4ch the             '-vesr. . has made its



- 15 -
loans to FLDA, the latter's own financial position is ambiguous.  Thus,
during negotiations, sssurances were obtained by the 3ark that FLDA's
commitments for existing settlement schemes and its future obligations
would not imoair its effectiveness as the executing agency for the project.
5.05      The assurances obtained provide as follows:
i.   For the project, the Government and FLDA would make
arrangements for settlers' loan repayments and the issue
of titles, as outlined in paras. 5.07 and 5.12.
2.   For non-project settlers, the Government would make all
future loans to FLDA on terms and conditions which would
allow their servicing out of paymehts received under credit
agreements that would be signed with all new settle-s.
3.   In the case of FLDA's present settlers:, the Government
would instruct FLDA to commence surveys and accounting
work to determine arrangements for the recovery of loans
made to settlers and the writing off, in appropriate cases,
of irrecoverable amounts. Where substantial amounts are
written off, the Government would, as necessary in the
light of settlers' ability to repay and of the financial
position of FLDA, write off a portion of its own loans
to FLDA.
Additionally the Government agreed to give notice to the Bank of the Govern-
ment's and FLDA's intentions regarding new borrowings. These measures would
be in the interests of FLDA, its settlers, and the proposed Bank-financed
project. FLDA would benefit from having its sources of revenue to service
its debts assured; its settlers would clearly understand their obligations
and benefits; and the project with its ecuitable but formalized credit
arrangements vould be protected from the pressures which could develop were
settlers on other FLDA schemes to receive appreciably easier credit terms.
Im=ortantly, the overall financial position of FLDA would be placed on a
sound basis, and in future, allow the agency to be a direct borrower from
external financing sources, such as the Bank.
B. Settler Selection
5.06      Settlers would be selected in two stages from applicants from all
parts of Malaysia. First stage selection would be carried out at centers
throughout the country by FLDA staff members in cooperation with State and
District officials.  A Project Selection Committee would then make a final
selection on the basis of the criteria given in Annex 8.  On notification
of his selection, the settler would be required to sign a contract in which
he would agree to abide by the rules and bylaws established by FLDA for his
conduct at the settlement.



- 16 -
C.  Settlers ' Credit ar.anenents
5.07      Each settler would be charged the full cost of his house, of
clearinng his houselot and developing ten acres of oil calms. Interest
wcould be  hnarged at 6- percent on the loan and would be capitalized in the
develoomentt period, i.e., frcm clearing to four years a'ter planting.  T1.he
settler would repay his loan by equal annual irstallments of principal ard
z.nterest over ten yea.rs, starting during the fifth year after calm planting.
5.05       During the develonment period settlers would have as their main
source of income wages paid for mandator-y work. on tChe project. A recoverable
_ubsisEtence allowance wounld be pa d curing ti-es when the scheme management
would not be able to orovide sufficient work to generate subsistence income,
or when a settler fell ill.  This allowance would form only a 5ma.ll part of
etl ers ' total inrcome during the develorment period (Annex 9).
5.Q    ~ ull management ccsts, both in develcnment and cnerational pihases,
-wculd be recove.ed by mesns of an addition to the processing charges for
f:':_  ni.c  settlers would pay in . the operational phase.  Th practice, this
a--rangement -wculd acrovide the most ecuitable distribution of managemenz
_ssts.
, .U~ '   A form of settler's agreement -which -rovides for the arrangements
susr_zed  above ha-s been a         -beed *etween FLDA and the Bark.  This -would obe
used for rarticr-ants in the rroJect.
D. Settlers' Land Tenure krra_nements
5 .;1     On signature of the r ag;reements, settlers irn each scheme would be
.egistered Jointly as occupiers in e=ectatior. of t_-'e ead become subject
to the conditions azd obligations of this position, the major obligaticn
bei_g that '"if so required, f:om ti-e to time in accordance with any direc-
t_zr.s of the Manager, to carry out any necessary m aintenan-ce, fertili zing,  e-
?1 anti.g or other vork requ1 red on the holding".  Breach of this and other
coligations could result in ex-ulsion from th.e settlement in accordance vith
the zrovrisions of t:he Land (Group Settlement Areas) Act.  Since -he Pahang
State Gcvernment is the only body authorized to issue land t-tle, following
cz-nlet1o.n of loan reray=ents by settlers the formality of re-vesting the
amnc 1d  the State Government would occur-.  Auto=atically, the State would
subsequently issue the individual leases and each settler would receive
title to ten acres of land cla-nted with. oil calrs and his house'ot.  Titles
would be leasehold end for a neriod of 99 years, less the period elapsed
cetween toitial clearing of tne area and comnietion of loan rety-ments.
5.12       Existing legislation is satisfactory fcr the arrangements prc-
-osed, and provisions governing the assignment and transmission of hcldinzs
are embodied irn the sett'er's agreement (tara. 5.1C).  These giarantee hn._m.
adecuate co=ensation in the event of h.s voluntary wit"hdrawal from the
settlement, or to his derendants 43n the case of his death.



17l
E. Settlement Onerating Procedures
5.13      Operating procedures would go through three distinct phases
determined by the changing status and degree of competence of the settlers
(Annex 9, para. 19).  During the initial development period settlers would
work as laborers directed by the FDA management and be liable to dismissal
without compensation for maJor breaches of settlement rules.  Thereafter,
at the beginning of the operational phase, settlers would sign their settler
agreement and be registered as occupiers in expectation of title to-a share
of a large block of oil ra2lms. They would retain this status for a five
year period, continuing to work under the direction of the FLDA scheme
manager, receiving wages and an equitable share of any surplus resulting
from the sale of ffb from the block after deducting outgoings.  Thereafter,
settlers would be allocated individual ten acre blocks of oil palms and
they would become occuniers in expectation of title to their specific ten
acre blocks.  They would have the choice of working their holdings as
individuals or of participating in methods of joint exploitation.  The
development of settler organizations to organize such joint working would
be assisted by FIDA management but, until loan repayments were complete,
the FLDA manager would retain final control of the settlement. A full
account of proposed operating rrocedures is given in Annex 9.
F.  The Jengka Division
5.i4     'While implementation of the first stage Jengka project would be
similar in nhysical terms to current FLDA operations which are satisfactorily
executed, project management would be faced with resconsibility for the
appreciable task of planning and subsequently implementing further stages of
Triangle Development. The implementation of the Jengka Regional Development
Program will require a concentration of integrated development efforts in
a comparatively remote and underpopulated area.  In total, this would entail
planning and development on a regional scale beyond present FLDA experience,
and could thus give rise to problems of logistics and cocrdination that
could be overcome only by providing project management with an appreciably
higher degree of autonomy than is the case with other FLDA schemes (Annex 2).
The Jengka Triangle Program. could only be efficiently irplemented if the
pattern of its management is different and staffed with a wider range of
specialists than those now supporting ongoing FLDA programs.
5.15      For these reasons a Jengka Division has been created within FLDA
with responsibility for Triangle development. It is headed by a Division
Director who is responsible to a Jen_gka Management Committee. The latter
comorises the Chairman and two deputy Chairmen of FLDA, representatives of
the Ministry of Finarnce, Ministry of NWational and Rural Development and the
Pahang Government, and a representative of Majlis Amanha Ra'ayat (M.,R.A), the
agency whnch has been allocated responsibility by the Goverrment for the
development of the Triangle's timber resources.  The Divrision Director is
also a member.  The Management Committee, three members of which are members
of the full FLDA Board, is resnonsible for policy decisions concerning
Triangle development and for the i=plementation of the project agreement
that would be signed by FJDA and the Bank.



- 13 -
5.16       The 'Director of the Di'vision is su-nor ed oy his Own staff 3o
smeciali sts aT Division headquax-ers.  T'hese are organized irn five depart-
ments - Administration, Land, Plazzing, Settler Develorment and Engineering.
tie is also assisted by a Progress and Evaluation Officer. The Division is also
able to draw on specialist staff at FL-A headauarters.  As FLDA embarks on
subsequent stages of Triangle Develop=ent, an increase in Division head-
cuarters' staff wculd be re-uired.  Staffing details which azzear in Annex 10
and Annex 2, Chart 2, relate to first stage project requirements alone.
During negotiations assurances were obttained from the Government that in th.e
event of a deciZicn to izlem=ent further stages of the Triangle Program,
the staff of the Jengkn Dilrison -w,ul;d be strengthened in order to accom-
.ndate its  pncreased resnonsibilit-es and i  such a marner as not to iMpair
the efficient manageeent of the first stage project.  Specifically, since
-'-e Divisicn Director's work would be exzanded to embrace the whole of the
Triangle Program, this would entail the appointment of a First Stage Project
Mana&ger to maintain drect' con.trcl of the first stage project.  The Division
Cirector would retain, however, general responsibility Por iolemenItation
of the pro'ect b'ut would delezate its administraticn to the First Stage
?roject XManager.  'o -what, extent the headquarters departments would require
stren4thening would denend upon the ti-.,ng of subsequent phases of the
Tri-ngle Program, the i=mact of which  dold be felt -axticularly vby the
2 lint4ing and Engineerirg De:artments.
At scheme ievel a svim lr system of orar.ization would be e=nlcyed
-S on  7reset TDA sce-es (Anex 1')  whi ¢ch to date has reslstea In succes-
s ful     sc -elce. dea,aIcrmet.  AmaJ cr difference would be that a Settler
'evelor=ent Offcer would be rcsted to each scheme.  The role of these
o ficers and t-hat of th.e Division's settler devtelorment deoar-.=ent would be
to t.rain settlers to rlay a fiul role in settlement and community develorment
oreraticn.  At present, settlers on F:DA schemes receive little or nc
s-sistance ir such as-.ects, largely because scheme managers a-e overburdered
with tcechnical a-nd a-ri cultural nroblems.
The basic source of' Di-isional staff is existing Fr A cadres .
'.aere cculd be interna.l  ressu=es tc retain well cualif ied zersonrnel in
neir present posts, and a danger that less qualified nersonnel would be
zosted to the Jengkas Divison.  Therefore, appointments to the nosts of
'ivision Directcr, and heads of the Planting. and anajneering Depar-n-ents
were agreed during regotiations.  An assurance was obtained -that the  nitial
arroint=ent- of the head of the Settler Develorment Department would be wi4th
t-e agreement of the BSn.;.  Assurances were alcso obtained th.at subsecuent
cianges in these aDtointmentsvould be made fcllowing consultation with. t.he
5.lP       FIDA orerates i'ts own training schemes f'or managers and -cre
unlor staff (Annex 10).  These are very successfu'  and rthe high  uaLi
of the m.a.ority oc' the man.aers produced is s.own by the fact that =en wit.
:LDA traininog ard e:rerience are i-. ..in-h oemand in the orivate plar.tati rn
sector.  Ccnt:nuingn at;enticn, th.erefore, will need to be .aid to  LD'A's
comreti.t:veness  r. retaining manazement -rersonnel.



- 19 -
5.20      Jengka Division headquarters are at Ulu J3mpol, where temporary
accommodation and facilities have been provided.  Eventually, they would
be established in the new town proposed for the Western sector of the
Triangle and which would be the Regional Center. This would be established
during subsequent stages of the Triangle Development.
Accounts and Audit
5.21      For the reasons given in Annex 1, present FLrA accounting pro-
cedures would not be satisfactory for the project.  Thus, while routine
book-keeping would be conducted by FLDA headquarters staff in Kuala Lumpur
in order to make use of mechanized accounting facilities, the project would
have its own accounting staff. The project accounts would be drawn up
separately from those of the FLDA head office and other schemes, and they
wo-uld be subject to independent audit by a firm cf independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank.  This would follow closely FLLA's present final
accounts and audit arrangments whereby separate accounts are produced for
each scheme, and the audit of these is divorced both from the audit of FLDA
and the audits of other schemes.
G. Processing Settlement Produce
,5.22     The palm oil mills would be owned and operated by FLDA 1/ on a
non-profit making basis.  Efficiency incentives would be available to their
staff. Under such arrangements, there would be no major advantage in the
settlers participating in ownership. Continued ownership by FLDA would,
however, have several advantages.  In particular, it would enable it to set
the standards for ffb quality and to continue to exert leverage on project
management, even after loan repayments.  Payments to settlers for ffb
Durchases would be based on a formula incorporating among other items,
operating expenses, amortization and interest and world prices for palm
produce. This formula has been agreed by the Government and the Bank.
The transport of ffb from field to mill would be carried out initially
by contractors to FLDA; subsequently, the settlers themselves could, if
they considered it desirable and economic, take over this function.
1/   FLDA is authorized by the Federal Government to appropriate State land
for the erection of such facilities and this ls covered in the agreement
between the State of Pahang and FLDA under which the project area has
been declared a Federal Development Area, para. 3.03.



- 20 _
rI.  PERODtCTCTN, MA4-RKETS AIID S=TxLEPS' BENEITS
A. Yields and Production
5.Cl      Pro,lect yield esti=ates are conservative by Malaysian, although
high by world, standards.  Based on commercial and research experience, the
miSsion zroJected the yields shown in Annex 11 as achievable under small-
holder conditions. In brief, yields from palms would increase from 3.6 tons
of ffb/acre in the fourth year frcm planting, to a peak of ten tons in the
tenth, and thereafter slo.wly decline to seven tons per year by the twenty-
fiftth year.  Twenty-five years is currently considered to be the economic
mroduc-ive life of an oil oalm.  At full -roducticn the oroject would yield
abcut 54,000 tons of oil aend 13,000 tons of kernels aannually.
B. Marketing and P-_ies
i'.02   *nWhen FLDA's current plans come to fruition, it will 'be one of
rte 'Ie rest, if not the larxest, processors of ffb and suppliers of -alm
-:. -r. ..e worid (para. 2.07).  At present, FLDA uses the serrfces and
aci'ities of commercial agency houses for marketing the stil' small -a1m
o:i' Oroducticn from Its existing schemes,  'but in future it intends to
de-elon its own direct  mar  etirg outlets.  For this purnose, FIDA has com-
issior.ed engineering consultants to study the feasibility of its erecting
bulk~ oil storage facilities at Port Swettenham which would be adeuate to
_a- e its  ro ected exzorts. It has also sent one senior staff member to
EAr-oe fOr marketing t-rining. The mrissicn was concerned .h at the decisicn
tz enter direct marketirng was taken on the basis of insufficient conside-
ratXLon of the elternatives, including continuation of the present arrange-
zeris.  A^ssurances w.ere cbtained frcm the C-overnent during negotiations
t.n  an ezert amT)raisal of 7 DA''s marketing needs would be co-rissioned.
,a-.d that future action on F:L,D,A's marketing arrangements wculd be taken
fcllowing consultation -with the Bank.
_ .03     For calculation of nro,ect earnings, the following prices fob 73ort
Swetn,enhar. have been used. PaJ- oil,  $55C/ton i n. 1 97C, falling by M'Al0
cer year to M$500 in 1975, and thereafter re-a-inirng at thi s f i gure; =am
kernels, M$3L5/ton, fallirng by MI$5 rer year until 1975, and. then re=aining
at M1$3-20.  Annex 12 contains fuirther details of the crrces and market
prcszects for oil nalm  rroduce and shows that, in general, the abcore prices
ar- in t..he low  .ield of the range currenly forecast by the Bak's Cocodity
D,ivision.
C.  Settler's Oera-ting BesUtlts
O.o4;     On the basis of the estimated costs and zrolected yields anx  -rices,
se^tl ers would enjoy an average annual net inccme after loarn re-rpyents Of
M 03,00.  This would rise to an estimated M$,300 following ccmpietion of
repay-menTs.  Annex 13 contains an- estimated settler's budget.  Incomes in
;^nis range aze very satisfactory and com.nare favorably -with the annual
comerc2ia estate wage of M$7,500 - M$l,800 and small far  inco=es at
.lere_s a-nrec ab- ly below t is.  World pr ces fcr -aim oil would have to fa'l



_ 21 -
to 10 percent below those forecast, before the settler's average annual
income during loan repayments fell to M$I,800. Under the present income
structure of the rural popljaation, oil palm holdings smaller than ten acres
would most likely attract potential settlers. Hovever, the close settlement
pattern proposed for the Triangle strictly limits additional income earning
capacity and planning must be directed towards a level of income which will
be acceptable by the end of the project period, more than 20 years ahead.
Ten acre holdings are necessary to provide this.
VII. BMTEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project would settle some 2,800 families who would cultivate
about 28,000 acres of oil palms. Assuming a 25 year life for oil palm , the
project would yield a rate of return to the economy of about 16 percent 1/
(Annex 14). After All project plantings come into bearing, the average Annual
fob value of production based on yields and prices as set forth in Annexes 11
and 12 would be about M$30 million (US$10 million). All production would
be exported and thus the project would make a major contribution to Malaysia's
foreign exchange earnings. During repayment of the Bank loan the foreign
exchange elements of project operating costs and debt service would be
covered about four times by the e.xpected foreign exchange earnings.
7.02      Currently, Malaysia has a considerable amount of unexploited
productive land and a high proportion of unemployed or underemployed labor.
""he project would use both these under-utilized resources in an economically
and sociologiccally sound manner. It would also provide for croD divers-
ification thus broadening the base for Malaysia's foreign exchange earnings.
It would be the pilot stage of a. integrated regional development Drogram
which may well set the pattern for future settlement of Malaysia's remaining
land resources.
7.03      The project would yield substantial benefits to participating
settlers.  It is estimated that the average settler would receive a net
cash income several times the average prevailing in the rural sector of
Mlalaysi a.
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMIENDATI101S
8.01      The project, as planned, is well conceived, technically and eco-
nomically sound and suitable for a Bank loan, of US,$1J  million.  Among others,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
1/   This does not take into account ex=enditures on social infrastructure
which it is the Government's intention to supply to all Malaysian
citizens, whether FLDA settlers or not.



- 22 -
1.   FLDA would obtain the services of a sui- able zalz oit minul
consultant to plan and sumervise ccnstructicn of the project
milits, (pa.ra . 4 .112),
2.   provision vouJld be made in annual grants to FLEA by the
Federal Government, for the recurrent costs of research
and training facilities financed in part uxnder the nroposed
loan, (pa:a. l.14),
3.   f\iture loans by the Government to iLDA would be on terms
and conditions, which would allow their sereicing out of
payment's received under cred_it agreements that would be
signed with all new settlers, and that the Bank would, be
given notice of the Government's and FIKDA's intentions
regarcd-ing new borrowings, (Paras. 5.oh and 5.05),
4.   the Government would instract FLDA to commence the workt
needed to determine arrangements for the recovery of loas
made to present settlers, and where necessary the writing
off of irrecoverable amounts; and that where substantial
amounts are wri tten off, the Govern=ent vould, as necessary
in the light oF' settlerS' aoility tO  -eray and of the
financiaI zosilion of FLDA, write off a portion of its
own loans to 7FA, (paras. 5.04 and 5.05),
5.   the credit arr-agements described in pa-ra. 5.07 t`hr=ough
para. 5.1D, and in Ane.- 9, would be e=vloyed,
6.   in the event of i=mlementing subsecuent stages of Triangle
Developent, the Jengka Division would be ap-rocpria-ely
strengt.hened, (para. 5.16),
7.   changes in appoint=ents to the mosts of Divisicn Director
and heads of the Settler Develcpment;, Planting and Engineering
Departenr.s would be -made following consultation with the
Bank, and. the initial appointment to the -cost of head of
Settler Develorment Department would be with the agreement
of t}he Bank, (para. 5.18).
;Mar-_h 2 8, 1>63



AlhEZX 1
Page 1
M.ALYSIA
JE.GKA TRIAILE PROJECT
TI3 JEMGKA T7AMGtZ MA§R PIAM
1.        in 1963, a Bank mission to Malaysia reviewed the developwent
potential of the Jengka Triangle. A techni.cal assistance grant, for a
comprrehenaive study of the area by consultants, -was rrade by the Bank to
the Government in 1965. The consultants emnployed were Tippetts --bbett-
McCarthy-Stratton and Huhnting Tecl:nical Services arnd their report, com-
pleted in Jarmary 1967, pro-ides a M.1aster Plan for the development of
the whole of the Jeng.ka Triangle.
2.       Tae project -nowi proposed for Bank fInancing consists of a first
pnase of this program. Certain proposals relating to settlement procedures
made by thae consultants in the Miaster Plan -.ere not entirely accepted by
the Government, the most important being the size of the settlement uni,t
(innex 3) and the ranagement structure regqUred for first stage project
development. In other respects, the consutantst recommendations are
accepted by the Government.
3.        The Jengka Triangle is an undeveloped area of the State of Pahang,
lyi-ng about 120 miles northeast of Kuala Tinpur in West Malaysia.  It is lo-
cated between the villages Jerantt ut-aran-Termerlch near the Pahang River and
the railway from Kota Bari to Singapore ,((ap l). It covers some
300,CCO acres (470 scuare -ales) of w,rnhich about 136,500 acres on Ithe peri-
phery are occupied or reservsd3n sore way including some 2-,500 acres alzeady
in the process of development.  The remaining 163,500 acres available for
developm.ent consist largely of unduClating land divided by an intricate sys-
tem of branching streams and moderately to steeply incised valleys.  The
climate is typical of Wiest Xalaysia iith arn aburdant anid fairly evlzenly dis -
tributed rainfall of about 90 inches per annun and mean daily temperatures
ranging between 770F. and 800F.
4.        The Triangle is mainly under nattural rain forest, and only a
small proportion of this has been exploited.  Rubber is produced on the
periphery by smallholders and four schemes are being developed by FLDA to
the north and south. Oil palms are grown on the east side of the T-riangle
at an FLfA scheme and on an .adjacent estate.
5.        T-imited cormercial and social services are provided at the towns
of Jerantut in the north and Maran in the southeast.  Temerloh in the south-
west is somewthat larger and is a center of local government and available
urban services. The Triangle itself has no settled population except on the
banks of the Pahang River and, to a lesser extent, along th.e peripheral roads,
6.        The main economic activity of the Triangle is loggirg and the
successful exmloitation of its forest reso"Lces is o  particular importance
both to the Goverraent and the econory as a whole, in that if exploited
methodically, they would produce gross ber. its amounting to .M$297 million
by 1977.



.4.NEX 1
Page 2
7.        The Master Plan recoirzaends that, by 1977, 117,CCO acres of high
forest would have been expoloited under a modern loaging system and the
land then cleared for agricultural and associated use.  A further 146,700
acres would be logged during the period 1976-78 but would be retained as
forest and would be managed on a sustained yield basis. Timber extracted
from the Triangle wiould be sold as logs unti1 1967 when a sawmill, ply-
wood and veneer factory and prefabrication plantI7 would have been estab-
lished to process the timber produced in lard clearing operations.  Sub-
sequently, the forest retained on a sustained yield bas^is would provide the
raw material required to maintain the paants in    noc-o o;erot^0n.
8.        Land capabili.ty assessments made by the consultants ir4icata
that about 93,000 acres of the Triangle w,ould be suitable for either oil
palms or rubber.  Some 71,000 acres are definitely suitabDe for oil palm.
Whether the remaining 22,000 acres would be planted with rubber would de-
pend on price forecasts for natural rubber and an assessment, prior to
planting, of the relative economics of rubber planting, oil palm planting
w-ith sub--oPt`mlum SYeld and retention of the area as forest.  In general
terms, oil palms are preferable to rubber as a crop for the Jengka Triangle
since present price forecasts are better and period to maturity is less.
In addition, the economy of ialaysia is heavily dependent upon existing
rubber production and a diversificaticn to oil palms is desirable. There
are, however, two reasons for conside-ring rubber as a crop for this 22,000
acres. First, it can be grown on land of poorer soil quality and steeper
slope than required by oil palm.  Secondly, there are pcssibilities of
secondary industry within Malaysia based upon rubber.  This factor will
be borne in mind in arriving at planting decisions in Jengka and alsewhere.
Within Jengka,fish ponds, rice, orchard and gardern crops would be developed
by Participating settlers on their o-m initiative but: with tecnical
assistance provided by FLDA.  Table 1 shows land use proposed for the
Jengka Triangle.
9.        Mhe I4aster Plan pro-ides for the phased development of the
Jengka Triangle during the 12 year period 1966 to 1977 by means of 31-A
supervised smallholder settlement which would be supported by the pro-
vision of rural and urban infrastructure and serEices.
10.       Management activities would take place at settlement unit, pro-
ject and Triangle levels.  The first would be centered in settlement unit
villages; the remainder would be distributed ultimately in the three pro-
posed towns.  Tne towns would also house those rersonnel administering
public services and utilities who did not live in the settlement villages,
and the independent urban services which wJould develop.  To.ms, villages
and holdings lwould be linked internally andzextarnally by 64 miles of
primary roads, 202 miles of secondary roads and 1,120- miles of tertiary
roads.
1/ These have r,ot yet been established, but prelirainary negotiations
have begun between the Government and interested private operators.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
11.       It is estimated in the Master Plan that the population of the
Jengka Triangle would total some 105,000 people distributed by occupation
as follows:
(a)  Settlers and families on new land ............. 59,100
(b) Settlers and faxrilies on e2dstir.g F<2A schemes
being developed and which could eventually be
administered as part of the Triangle Program . 13,100
(c)  Rural support (FLDA staff, health, etc.) ..*... 12,300
(d)  Towns (Govarnrment and FLDA staff, conmer-
cial, forest industry workers, etc.) ....v.... 20,000
10, 500
12.       Educational and me#cal facilitiss planned for the anticipated
population would include 5612 primary schools, 21 secondary schools, tirese
upper secondary schools and a teacher training college; one hospital, two
health centers, eight subcenters and 25 midwife clinics are also proposed.
In addition the Master Plan aakes provision for public servrices and  uti-
lities includi.ng water supplies, sanitation systems, power, telecommunica-
tions, police posts and government admiristration in support o. planned
developmert.
13.       ?Jl. development of the Triangle as specified in the Master Plan
would involve a capital expenditure of about M$347 million (US$116 million)
of which FLDA's share would be about 4$240 million (US$80 million).  This
latter exoenditure would be spread over the 16 year period ending 1981-82.
Hoowever, revenue would accrae to FLDA from 1970-71 onwards as projects be-
came operational, and the financing requirements would be reduced corres-
pondingly.  Thus, net funds required by FLDA (excluding interest) would
total M$149 million (US$50 million) and would be expended over the 1l year
period extending from 1966 to 1977.
14.       The Go-ernment intends to implement the Master Plan and it has
formally reques+ed: the Bank for assistance in financing a first stage
project Which is the subject of this report.  In advance of a Bank de-
cision on this it has already cleared more than 5,000 acres in the north
of the first stage project area, the planting of which -ith oil palms is
in progress, and has already entered into preliminary negotiations with
potential foreign partners for the proposed forest products industry.
1/  Actual numbers of schools would depend upon ultimate settlement village
sizes. Nhimbers quoted above are 'cased on 100 family unit villages.



AMTEX 1
Table 1
JEINGKA TRIALLE PIRCGRAI-I
LAND US  RECOIOMI,ATION.S
Descriotion                           Area (acres)
1. Crons
Oil palms                             71,CC0
Rubber                                22,000
Acricultural roads                      MC800
2. Villaae and urban develo-r;nent
Villages                               8, 4C0O
Roads                                  2,600
Schools and ot.ier social
facilities, mills and factori es        600
Towns                                  2,700
Unusable                               a,700
19,0CO
3. Permanent forest
Styimam protection                     4,l00
F7orest                              L42,600
h6, 7C0
4. Tot,al                                                163,500



A2TI   2
Page 1
MAlAYS-A.
JEGKIA T.4L2TGT  tROJECT
TiS  =lA. IL-UND IEVELIPNT AUIJ 0TY
BACKC-ROUND
1.        The Feder~al Land Developtment Authority (FILA) was established
under the Land Developrernt Ordinance o0' 1956 with the duty to "promote and
assist twhe investigation, formuJlation and carr,ying out of projects for  the
development and settlement of land within the Federaion'".
2.        EIDA comnenced work in 1957 and its functions through 1960 were
t;wofold. First, it made available Federal resources, princp-ally finance,
to the State Governments for approved land development schemes. The Land
Development Ordi-nance of 1956 gave powers for State G'over.rents to form
Corporations for the initiation and development of such schemes, and 1L
state schemes of varying sizes ,ere financed by IRIZA in the period 1957
through 1960.  Secondly, in 1958 ETLA implemented the first schsme directly
planmed, financed and managed by the Authority, and by the end of 1960 it
had sponsored the development of 15 schemes throughout West Malaysia, the
planted areas of which totaled nearly 15,OC0  acres.  2,9C0 set.tler fandIlJies
had been settled on ItDA schemes by the end of 1960.
3.        Under the above arranngemants, and for a number of reasons, the
progress of the national land development program was slow. Not the least
of thesse was the necessity for consultation wnith, reference to and coordi-
natQion among not less than 1.2 departments and agencies respons±ible to eigh't
ministries both at State and Federal levels. Such close integration was
demanded at a time when there was no national directive according high
priority to land development programs.
4.        Maa¶y important lessons were learnned, ho.;ever, through the de-
velopment of early State and FTDA schemes and this 1mowledge proved very
useful in formulating  =iDAls subsequent policies and techniques of develop-
ment. Thus, when in 1961 the Pederal GoverTent launched its development
program under the 1961-1965 five-year plan., and in which the highest
priority was accorded to rural development, FL3A was selected as the major
agency for the plani-ng and inplamentation of settlement schemes. This
alteration in its role involved the following changes:
(i)  FLDA abandoned the role of "loans board"! for the State Corpora-
tions and became directly responsible for the plarnnig,  in-
ception, financing and administration of schemes.
(ii)  FILDA becam.e resnonsible for coordinat:L.g the work of all Govern-
ment agencies associated wi th it in settlement development.



AThEX 2
Page 2
(iii)  The FLA. organization wNas strengthened by the addition of' tachni-
cal and administrative staff, t.s reorganization of head office
sections and the establishment of a Regional Office in each of
the States of' West Malaysia.
Table 1 sho-ws the markcad increase in FLDAi s activi-ties after 1960.
FIDA's performance since its reorganization has besn impressive
in that, while there is room for improvement in its  peratitons, --'it has
employed its finds in the establishment of excellent anm high yield potan-
tial plantings of rubber and oil palms which constitute a major long-term
national and economic investment.
OMI.A:ZATION
6.        As indicated in Cnart 1, the MInister o I' ,ational and Ru'al
Development is responsible for FLUA.
7.        The Board of FIDA numbers 12, and these are rerresentatives of
appropriate mi.nistries, private int3rests sad the Cotmmnealth Develorment
Corporation (CDC). CDC was instrumental in founding FID.A and has supplied
part of its loan capital. The Board has established three cotmnittees to
help guide its policy determination: (a) technical investigation and
planning, (b) finance and (c) establishment.
8.        Alt+hough not indicated, by Chart 1, many of the major FLDA head
office departments  report in practice directly to the Chairnzan rather
than to him through one of the Teputy Chairren.  These departments include
accounts, processing, land and planting.  This thro-ws a considerable burden
of' decision-making directly on the Chairman, who is also chairman of twuo
other quasi-Government agencies. This lack of delegation of power creates
certain administrative problems, although curontly these are not acute
because the present Chairman of' FTLA has a particularly vigorous and vital
personality.  Further, there is a trend towards a greater delegation Of'
authority.
9.        A similar lack of delegation of authority occurs at a lower level
in FIDA, at the Regional level. Normally, schemes in any one State come
under the control of a Regional Secretary who is assisted by a Visiting
Manager.  Nost Regional Organizations, however, are weak and unable to cope
with their decision making responsib;lities and inevita-ly these are trans-
ferred to FLDA headquarters.
10.       The mission considered that at two points in the structure of'
FLDA there is a level of' management -which is either missing or inadequate.
At FIDA headcuarters too much detail requires the attertion of the Chair-mn
himself, and delays must occur in activity if he is unavailable to make the



ALNUX 2
"age 3
requisite decisions. At the Regional level, management is too weak to
execute its functions wJithout constant reference to Headquartars for de-
cisions and tiechnical and administrative support.  These considerations have
led the mission to support, in the main report, a management structure for
the Jengka project which is appreciably different in its middle and upper
levels than that employed by MDA for its ongoing program.
FI TA I iC
I1.       FFinance for FLDA is obtained (with the exception of an irntial
loan from CDC) by means of Government budget allocations.  In addition,
Government allocations which are not within FITDA.s accozaitting are expended
by other Government agencies with the agreement of FDA. An example of
these are Public Works Department (?/qD) expenditures on roads and water for
FLDA schemes.  Tn this case the funds required ar-e approved by the Covern-
ment as part of the F.TD budget but a notation is made t;hat expenditure of
these amounts can only be made witlh the concurrence of FL A.  Tn addition,
sundxry minor allocations are made to FL3DX for exxpenditlre on welfare iters
such as religious buildings.  Wajor direct Government budget allocations
to FLDA are made in t-wo forms, grants for Administration, and loans for
physical Settlement Development.
12.       The loan capital from CDC totals M$5,1145250 provided under an
agreement signred in 1958, with interest at six and three-quarters percent.
After a grace period of eight years, reparn nts by equal annual installments
fo,low over the next 25 years.
13.       Loan advances from the Government Wotaled some M4$105 million by
the end of 1966 and are at five percent interest per annum under tha follow-
ing terms.  An interest ftree grace oeriod of five years follows each loan
aIlocation w.,,hile for the followiLng five years, simple interest is added to
the principal of the loan outstanding and financed until the end of the
tenth year; from the eleventh year orwards the ,Ahole loan, plus interest
accurmlated to the end of the tenth year, is repaid by equal installments
of capital and interesst over the next l5 years.
14.       No decision has been made on the terms under whhich settler bane-
f.iciaries have received and wrll receive the loans when applied in the
form of settlement development expenditure.
15.       Rubber has a longer period of development to maturity than oil
palms, and since FLDI4. in its earlier schemes dealt, mainly w-th rubber as
a primary crop, as against oil palms in later schemes, the problem of how
to treat repayments from settlers,while growing, has not yet reached too
great a magnitude as only nowr are the earlier rubber schemes coming into
produclt,ion and settlers thus able to make repayments.  However, the much
shorter development period for .oil palms and FLiDAs concentration on this
crop at the present time make it essential that decisions are made in the
near future on. FDAA's financial arrangements wiith its settlers.



AMNEX 2
Page 4
ACCOUMS
Gereral
16.       The financial. arrangements outli.ned above have rasulted in con-
sidzrable confusion of the FLDA accounts. 1t is necessary first to consider
the distinction between Loan and Adimnistration accounts. As descri'bed, the
basic distinction is that loan items are repayable by schemes ( and hence
by settlers) to E'flA and subsequently by ELA to the Federal Covernment.
Admnnistration it-ems are not repayable by settlers on ongoing schemes. anxi
National Budget Allocations to FLDA are similarly distinguished.  Ad^L;Zrs -
tration items include management at all levels, while loan items include
the following:  the cost of clearing, planting, fertilzers during the
development period, house-lot clearing, and house construction and sub-
sistence loans dra-n by settlers during periods when they cannot work.
Administration items do not cause an accounting problem.  They are accumu-
lated and the increasing armount carried forward in the Balance Sheet as an
intangible asset.
17.       Loan items cause considerable problems.  in theory, 7LDA requi-re.
tlat each settler should hav,e a loan account iihich is charged with items
which can be definitely allocated to him (such as the cost of his ho'use ano.
ary subsistence loans) and which is chargod also vit.: an equitable alloca-
tion of the totAl agricu tural cost of developing the scheme of wIhich the
holding to which he -will eventually hold title forms pazt. At present,
however, loans accounts in the names of individual settlers are only re-
tained for house and subsistence itemss  Otl.er development ezcnenditure is
held in large block accounts and is unallocated. The reasons for this are
twofold.  IFirst, in the absence of clear Governrent direction on the
questions of settlers' loan arrangements and titles FILC. is unable to allo-
cate these accounts to individual settlers.  Second, as the rate of in-terest
to be charged to FLDA on its loans from Government has only recently been
decided, FLDA has been reluctant to publish individual loan accounts which:
contain a hypothetical rate of interest, since this could have em.barrassing
consequences if, once a rate was decided, it became necessary to increase
the settlerst accounts.  There is also a third reason, that is that earlier
schemes generally were less satisfactory than those more recently iiple-
mented and w,here the results of experience could be applied.  FLDA feels,
ard the mission concurs, that it would be inecuitable to charge the earlier
settlers with what is effectively the cost of developing FLDA's present
expertise,  This is a further issue which must be resolved as early as
possible.
18.       Similar and related problems arise in the case of settlement
revenues and on those schemes w.,hich are rnow bearing (although revenues are
not considerable as yet) sums retained from the sale of settlers Izodu=e
are credited to bualk accounts and remain unallocated.



'L, 2DX 2
Page 5
Accounts of Schemes and FLDA
19.       The accounting system is split on a scheme bas^s.  Entirely
separate accounts are kept for FLA and for each of the schemes. The sys-
tem is to some ex.tant analogous to a holding company with man  subsidiaries,
in that the 'LDA accounts show scheme expenditure only as block amounts
charged to schemes. The individual schemee accounts are complete within
themselves and are desicned to total to the items in FLDA accounts.
The Accounts Denart½ent
20.       TLe Accounts Department, under the supervision of a recently
appoinlted FFinancial Secretary, is headed by a chief accountanyt who is res-
ponsible to the Chairman of ThDA. Beneath the chief accountant are three
sections headed by:  (a) the financial acccuntant; (b) the internal auditor
and accountant (acart from internal audit he works as a management account-
ant and his staff also asser.t rev the T -nal accounts of schemes); and (c) the
cost accountant.  T-he latter's section deals 7ith both administration and
loan budgets and is corcerned -.u-ith actual e=penditures (other than contract-
ors) on schemes i- m,emTorandum form (i.e., is rnt concerned wieth double
entry accounting)
xternal Audi
21.       Until recently the audits of MLDA were performed by three ilde- -'
pendent auditing fIrms.  Now only one firm is employed. All audits are
performed in lNuala LumpUr, FLDA staff certificates being accepted for items
of stock and cash in hand on schemes,  By the end of 1967, the most recent
complete FIDA audit was for the 18 months to December 31, i965.  -=LA be-
lieves that by e=ploying one company alone it will be able to complete its
audits more rapidly.
Internal Audit
22.       The Internal Audit Section visits schemes to make checks on a
regular basis.  Approximately 90 percent of such audits are routine visits
and ten percent are surzrise visits when irregularities are suspected.  In
cases where dishoresty at schemes has beea uncovered, m1ore than one staff
rember is always involved.  This tends to support the contention of FLDA
that the built-in interrnal check is good.
Effectiveness ofX Accounts Departmernt
23.       The accounts are produced long after the conclusion of each
financial year.  or exa.a-le, the audit report -or FUDA for the 13 mnorths



AIHMX 2
Page 6
to December 31, 1965 was signed in December 1966. Me accounts for the
schemes for the same period are still in the course of preparation. The
reasons for this apparently unreasonable delay are (a) the accounting year
was changed; (b) until 196h schere accounts were prepared at the schemes.
In 1965 mechanization on National Cash Register machines was completed and
schemre accounts were broughlt inato head office   The initial change-over
period took longer than expected; and (c) shortuage of staff. Accounting,
staff at requared leveels can be obtained, although with sore difficulty in
the case of the higher paid posts.  Hcwever-, FDA is reluctant to iLncrease
itz overhead by t;aking on more staff.
2L.       Despite these problems, +he staff of the accounts department is
satisfactory.
25.       Table 2 shows a surnary of past balance sheets of FDI.  Those as
at December 31, 1966 are not yet audited.
FDA AI'ID TX PROJCT
26.       in most respects, the pattern proposed in the main report for
the project conforms closely to that already evolved by the IFIZA in its 15
oil palm schemes, for exampla, with regard to the phasing and development
of the land, villages and settlersthomes, the settlers' selection criteria
applied, the sequence and timing of the settler intake anrd the size of the
schemes, with 4,CCO acres as a norm. Hoi-ever, in administrative respects,
the Jengka proposals deviate from the methods now employed.  The folloring
changes have beern made to overcome the more critical of the problems
described above:
(i)  m"nazement
The management of the project would be relatively autonomous in
terms of implementing the project        (Ciart 2),  General y, it
is intended that 'the Jengka management w,ould fill the gap Which
at Present exists between scheme management and head office
management      (paras. 8-10 above).  Similarly, the authority
of the Director of Jengka Development -wsill alow problems to be
settled rapidly and on the spot writhout adding to the burdens
of the Mairman of FLDA.  Nevertheless, FLDA head office staff
and departmients would be available for advice and consultation.
It wUll be noted that the Administration Department contains a
number of accounting staff.  It is intended -hat, although the
FTLDA headquarters accounts departm.ent would be required to pro-
'ide accounting services (particilarly those services which are
mechanized), the Jengka accounting staff would ensure, from. in-
ception, that the finan-cial adninistration of Jengka is run on
sound lines.



ANTE  2
Page 7
(ii)  Settlers' Credit ard Land Tenure Arranzementos
Project settlers would be inforTmd of t-.heir rights, including
those to tit:Le, and obligat4ons at the time off their settlement
and would be required to sign binding loan agreements with FTLA,
Arnz: 9.        hese arrangements would enable Government loans
to .LDA for the project (izcluding onlending of the proposed Bank
loan) to be secured by loan agreements signed between FLDA and
project settlers.
(iii)  Management Costs
The project settlers would be obliged to repay all management costs
incurred on their behal-f b- 5DA.  This is in contrast to the
ongoing scherms where management is given as a grant.  This chanrge
wiould be made since,as sho-m.  in the main report, the settler can
reasonably be expected to bear such costs.  4anagement costs -wotld
be recovered by an additional levy on the processing charge to
settlers for each ton of ffb sold by them to the project mill.
In practice, this method could ease the accountling burden of
allocating management costs to individual loan accounts.



=.IX 2
TabcLe 1
ACMEAM OF M4AIN COM?S PLAM]ED ON FTDA SC;3.S
FROM 1957 TIROUGH AUGUST 1967
Acreage of               Settlers
Year               Rubber and 011 Palm            Placed
Planted                 -lace
TOTAL 1957 - 60                1I4,602                    2,900
1961                    114, 93L
1962                    26,134
1963                    29,151L
1964                    25X,82
1965                    18,26'
1966                    28, 860
1967                    31,812
TOTAL 1957 to end 1967         189,739S/                  11,950
TOTAL AFEA DEVEIDOFED FOR
ALL ?UF.0SES             205,239
1/  L-rc1des 4,8015 acres o' other crops, maily 4rit trees.



FEDERAL LAND DEVELOMENT AU'TiORaTY
Summarized Balance Sheets Y                        (      l
--' -'    - -   '-- - '- - -         ~~~(14,,) millions)
Audited                Es-timated
-as at----------          As At
/j/3    6/30/6lh   12/31/65   12/31/66
ASSETS
LOAN ACCOUNT
InvesaUnents:  Loans to Development Schemes                             32         49          75         106
AD)IIIHIS'TRAIION ACCOUNT
Investments:  Development Schemes                                       l1         17          26          33
Interest on Loans to Developmnent Schemes                 h          6          13          26
23                     39          T9
Fixed Assets (at written down values)                                    -          1           1           2
Accumnulated Head Office Expenditure                                     3          4           5           6
Current Assets                                                           1          2           h
54         79        12h         173
LIABILITIES
LOAN ACCOUNT
Capital:  Goverunent of Malaysia                                        27         414         70         101
Commonwealth Development Corporation                          5          5           5           5
32        T, F)       77-1
ADWINI',TRAiTION ACCOUNT
---I al and Reserve Funds                                               19         25          37          I3
Accumulated Net Incoae                                                   3          5          12          21h
Sb       79         124         173
1/    FLDA has changed the method of allocation of somne items and,                                                  |b|
consequently, this table contains adjustments to present                                                       N
the four years on a comparable basis.                                                                        N M



MALAYSIA: FEDERAL LAND DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
ORGANIZATION CHART -OCTOBER, 1967
MINISTER OF NATIONAL AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
LLDA BOARD
__    ___                                     L!1Th'AIRMAN                   I CHAIRMAN
DEPUTY CIIAIRMAN    jDEPUTY  C1HAIRMAN
A UMINIST RATION                                                                                                                                                        DEVELOPMENT
___                              ~~~~~~~SECRETARIY  (FINANCE) 1[                                                        PATN
L SECIlIAAOY  ~~~l VA'SCHIFAACCOUNTANTDIRECTOR                                                                                                                        PLANNING
FiINANCE   ___]PROCESSING                                                    PLANTING          1-
PIINCIASES                                                                                  __-                                                                          SURVEY
TRAINING                                                                                                                                                                 LANDS
C ON 1 NACT S
.......    lirr                                                                                                                                                        4oC,o   Adiio,l.io fCo-d.
Coeleocin 0? mo,                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adi,iioioo  f lo-d
PERSONNEL  2  _______  _________                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENGINEERING
SE T I I NiS
4ee),- Affi,- Oft-,ni
nt-I ANlAII/IAfi NicANU           PHAN                         JOilONEl             NE(Aill liMliii AN/MALAC:CA      It-,IAKI/eL ANi;N                  iA,A         j         SAIJAIIISARIAWAK
VIriTING iiiNAel A          VISITING MANAliWi            VISII?C leANlAlilA i    I    VITiIINA MANAGEIi   4         Vli ilAti MAIoAOE            V11IMANAGCR
2i lAir., iiliiro, Foii P             i SOrn,,              I'd loire SiAiiio-       M-e C C  C GA  oO'Gl pu),, ACt--one. ,.  9,000
MA  19 reIA' AiMoO Chili 25.OrGil0         n          di C-oP b2.000 oCe    L]                                 Miii Ci-" .97000      j [                                            _______1           ~       
1N1 E   ioiiop ccoijen   osi  at? 01   d of 1966                                                                                                                                                                     hI
(NI 31 -911   l0



MALAYSIA: JENGKA PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTER OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
FLDA BOARD
r   CHAIRMANJ fLDA                                               JLNGKA MANA(EMLNT COMMITTEE
7CHAIhRMAN|ull fl DA tChol#nLnl                                                   COMMITTEE
__. _   ___                         EDiylip,y   fl Ot . C.... Ft-DA
2  DEPUTY   CtHA RiNMEN                                       rttly Mf NI         -dliL d  IfRiol -   neDri-p.-t R.rI-LmOl.
T-_l y AAe1pre l lik.ef
PuhL,Nh  (01---in Rrp ...... I.vx
_._ _ __I ~~~~~MARA Fe ... e,,,
FLDA   HEADQUARTERS                                            Jer Orinfrelri lor
JENGKA DEVEtIOPMENT DIRECTOR    1
L4OGRESS AND EVALUATION OF IC- -                                                                      -MILL CONSULTANT                                                  ]
AI)MINISfrATION OEPAfirMENf                                      ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT                                             P(LANTING OEPARrMENT                                   SETTLER DEVElPAIENT DEPARTMENT                                              IAND DEPARTMENT
Adinrilis3lrrlifl orr OSficer                                         Eo;i....                                                 Sr..... Pl--v o cw-o                                                                         Ott-                                S-i.r L-d Ad..-t-A,
Acs:wnirerlislulfS....                                                                                                         PPII.II ofc-                                                                          Officer                                      L-d Ad.mmft.].,
i! ft. inrc   of Axcco.rrit.                                   E -.e                                                           N   -e   Ot-n                                                                 Off-,                                               2 Cl.,k.
4 Clrer -l Otfi-cr                                             5 T.ch,in-l AsinIon       .. (Fo<d,                             A;icol-u      Olfic.r                                            4 Cl.f,s/ Typret.                                                Typilt
Stn-o iphd l                                                         arrldli, Sr.ry I                                           3 ElasPTypl$
4 blrw-r                                                       4 CI.h,/fypi,,t
Off ic. lloy                                                   S.r-ey Mfh-d-o
_  _.1____         __1_1__                                                          . .I _._                             _ _          7.__    L_                                             __    __                             __.                                      _1 __
5St.LMIf I                        SCIEEME  17                                        SCiiIME                     IVl       SCEIIIMIY  SE V.SrrIf I S                                                           SChIEME 1                      IJ U JEMPOL ML L                       SE    D M R L
IicaiiitOttIct      S.,ltior Ooirritlticr              StlrneiIrert  Of,tt-              5011.1 Dleoeipice-t Offic.r        stIllOr Seo...lop-rrer  Off-cr     SilrIivlpror Omfcr                 Sete  Irrtclic  Offtce             Aill EnQirr..r                     M i
N      rMoliuget                                                    Mirciidar                          Maoor                              titorciri                          Malirzrf oidAe >rf                tilOiiNlpo|| Senior MII  il xgy   rnriprls.                                at n   1 9
A     irt ....o.t.I               A-,ocr-t Mtdoiu                   AS- -olt M.i-ii                    A-istcl; MGtL-Jrr                  As-lIt.w  Mil,,olr                A,lislOlI Milirgar                 ArolIf M-g,,.r             |        irnee Mel Errgitii            |iO tIlA lA 1
S    i  Soiltiioos                4 --r&ioreisoes                   4 S-iror Spr ....r...              3 SCirSr  eirisois                 ! tScii   S U5pe-i--              4iiriirSlt*Ilis                      SrIrOr Sorrrrsro                                              I
L0 f      dA-1-i                    I'il   Ai - Ci  csWintihi A c   E   Fi7ld A-,Ii                     , ld A,-i-leS             7          Field A-sriirtl         J       7 f.iel Ass-,Iil,                 9 Firh A,ccinis                                                 I
__2RENRtt- 3453 I



2NIM 3
Page 1
~4AYSTA
JEIGKEA  ¢RIA,TIC-I PROJECT
VIT-AE  SIM
1.        In the '"Master Plan" the consultants recommend a village unit
of 100 settler families.  They produce major argaments in support of this
unit rather than tuhe 400 fanily unit f'avored by the Governrent and ermplyed
currently by ELDA. These are:
(i)  the settler is more closely associated -vith his land since it
would take only 20 to 25 -irantes to wal-k from one side to the
other of the 1,000 acres of oil palms which wiould be served by
the vIllage,
(1i)  the 100 familJy village reflects thle typical rural village of
TWest 2vlaysia in size, shape and character, and
(iii)  in the broken topography of the proJect area it would be
dif'f'icult to site the 400 fazrd.1y village without recourse to
expensive grading and drainage works, etc.
It is necessary, howuever, to qualif- (i-i) since the consultants assume
that each settler fa=ily will have a three-quarter acre houselot, -r..ereas
the Government proposes, and the Bank concurs, that a cne-quarter acre house-
lot is presEmtly the maore appropriat-e size.  For this reason the comparison
is between a 100 family virlage ;-ch w7ould require 75 acres for houses and
houselots, and a 400 family vi'lage needing 100 acres for the same purpose.
2.        The counter argument put foorzard 'oy the Government in the case
of (i) is that, assuming the village is in the approximate center of' its
4,000 block of oil palms the waLd.ng time to the furthest holding would be
only 40-50 minutes, and appreciably less by bicsycle, the cormon mode of
transport, and that this woZrd not place too great a strain on the f'e,
settlers wTho would have to travel these distances.  In the case of (ii) the
traditional character of the 100 family "kampong" is recognized 'oy the
Goverrnment, 'out it believes that this is an inconvenient admin.trative unit
and one diff'icult to support with the range of' services available within
each village which the Government wishes to introduce to rural M.alaysia.
Additionally, the Government believes that the potential purchasing power
of' the unit would be too low to support an addquate level of commercial and
business developrent.  Perhaps m.ost important, the Government is anxious
to develop areas on lines which will enable them to be relatively easily
defended against subve-rsive activities.  The experience of'L the Goverrrent,
during the Coinnun-ist Drergency, which was o f'fcially ended in 1960, has been
that a rural population in vi3l ag,es of approximately 100 family size is



Al iEX 3
Page 2
difficult to control whereas a Lao family size village lends itself to the
efficient deployment of secsrity forces.  This is particularly relevant in
view of the recency of the Emergency in 1Q -aysia itsel f and the proximity
of other areas of disturbance.
3.        In considering the alternative proposals the mission concluded-.
that:
Wi)  the time taken to get to a holding would 'e important; but
since the 10 acre oil palm holding would provide only some 260
eight hour days of -work annually the loss of time which scme
settlers wiould incur in travelling would not be excessive, and
would not result in bad husbandry practices. Also, the critical
period of holding development would be the first ten years of
oil paLm growth and during this period the settlement would be
worked on a group basis under FLDA directioca. Within this tan
year period all settlers would bear the inconvenience of ,working
the distiant holtdings.
(ii)  there would be disadvantages i:an servicing a ICO fam:ily unit.
In commnon wirth most developing countries there would be problems
of obtaining staff prepared to live in such small cormmanities,
and a reaJ danger would exist that second rata personnel would
be posted to them; farther, the purchasing power of the smAll
unit would not be sufficiently large to encourage commercial de-
velopment, and these circumstances would combine to make set-
tlers look outwards from the village for their enteritaintment,
necessary shopping and other non-farm activities.
(iii3  in view of the broken topography of the project area difficul-
ties would arise in sitiIng at least some of the 400 family unit
vaillages; but that the degree of these could orly be established
following detailed site surveys and planning.
4.        In surnary the mission concluded that there are no significant
advantages in either the small or large urnt, the closeness of the farmer
to his land beirg balanced by the disadvan.tages of servicing the small unit
by Government agencies and of sponsoring conrnercial and business develop-
ment U-ithin it.  H'owever, possible problems of siti.ng the larger unit cannot
be discounted, and it is possible that in some cases smaller village units
would be required.  In examiring the effects of employing smaller urnits the
missicn considered their influence on project management and costs.  M.anage-
ment would not be affected by the use of a smaller viillage unit if the
principle of operating the project as seven schemes, as envisaged by tne
Governrment and the mrission, of approximately 4,OCC acres was retained.  The
number of managcement personnel per acre of palms and per settler would
remain unchanged; and at most a relocation of mTanagement living quarters
and possibly offices would be required.



AMi 3
Page 3
5.       -In the case of costs, those of providing social infrastructure
and water supplies would vazr with siza of village. Education aund health
facilities would be the largest item of social infrastructure costs. How-
ever, there is no major variation in the cost of providing these facilities
on a per settler basis unless the proposed faciity is very small. Were
all villages of the 100 family size, total costs of social infrastructure
would be about N$102,000 (UJS$3&,00c0) higher for the same number of families
than for villages of the 400 fanmly size. In the case of water supplies on
the same comparative basis, the differential would be about 14$7C0,C{CO
(US$233,000) in favor of the large unit.
6.        Since suitable sites for larger villages can most probably be
found and overall costs are not appreciably affected, the mission agrees
with the Governnent:s proposal for larger villages on grounds of ease of
administration, public services and security.  Ileverthelsss, the Govern-
Mant's att-itude is not infle:dble in individual cases, and where smaller
viV?Tages are necessary for topcographical or other good reasons it has
agreed that appropriately smaller villages wi-l be constructed.



MATAYSIA
JENGKA TPRANGIE PROu0CT
SCHEDl!I  OF LAND CIEUXRITG AIM PALM
ACRES BY SC =-ES AND PHASESLJ
Years cornencinR October:    1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   TOTAL
Schem,e iNo. 12/
Clearing                3,7632/1, 950                         5,723
Palm Planting                   3,100  1,730                  4,830
Schenre No. 2
Clearing                1,0753/3,717                          !,792
Palm Planting                     968  3,082                  4,050
Scheme No. 3
Clearinz                        1,233  2,L54    869           4,596
Palm Planting                          1,110  2,C:    755   3,880
Scheme No. I,
Cleari ng                       1,230  2,828                  4 ,058
Palm Planting                          1,107  2,323           3,L30
Schemre No. 5
Clearing                               3,864                  3,864
Palm Planting                                 3,260           3,260
Scheme Fo. 6
Clearing                               1 354  2,837           4,191
Palm Planting                                 1,219  2,321   3,540
Scheme No. 7
Clearing                                      5,899           5,899
Palm Planting                                        h,710   L,710
Totals
C5earing                4,838  8,130 10,540  9,605    -   33,113
Palrr. Planting            -    4,068  7,029  8,817  7,786  27,7C0
1/ Detailed surveys have not been carried cut and areas for clearing are
not deli mited. Thus acreages actually cleared may vary slightly from
those appearing in the schedule.
2/ An approximately 400 farrmily unit village is assumed, area cleared and
planted would not vary significantly if a smaler unit were e=;loyed.
3/ This work is comilete.



A'2E: 5
Page 1
JENGKAI TMAL'SZIE ?ROCT
SCISLEZ CLMU          At%  1:RSTT71-  LETVELCTT
Calendar Year:                1967       1968      1969       1970       1971
Scheme 1To. L/
Settlers'hcuses                      L;83
Water supply              Begin        -      Complete
Office and store                  Conztruct
Staff quarters                    Construct
Village roads (i)7. 5
Scheme No. 2
Settlers houses                                 °5
Water su:ply                       Begin      Ccrr.plete
Office and store                              Construct
Staff quarters                                Construct
Village roads (-niles)                          6.5
Scheme No. 3
.Settlers; houses                                          388
WIater supply                                   Begin   Complete
Off'-ce and store                                        Construct
Stavf cuarters                                           Construct
Village roads (miles)                                      5.5
Scheme Nio. I
Settaers' houses                                           343
Water supply                                    Begin  Complete
O O ice a-:. stqre                                        Construct
Staff quarters                                          Construct
Village roads (miles)                                      5 5
Scheme No. 5
Settlers houses                                            326
Waater supply                                   Begin   Complete
'Office and store                                       Construct
Staff quarters                                           Construct
Village roads (miles)                                      5.3
I/  An approximately 400 farily vilage unit is assured.



AMNEX 5
Page 2
IMLAYSIA
JEIMKA TRINEN  PROJECT
SC GWITE. OF VLA2GE. AiM INFPASTRJUCTUIE DEVELOPTENT
(continued)
Clendar year:                1967       1968      1969       1970       1971
Scheme No. 6
Settlers' houses                                                      354
Water supply                                             Begin    Completa
Office and stors                                                   Construct
Staff cuarters                                                     Construct
Village roads (miles)                                                 5.6
Schemre No. 7
Settulers 'houses                                                     471
T:Tater supply                                 Begin               Complete
Office and store                                                   Construct
Staff quarters                                                    Construct
Village roads (miles)                                                 8.5
TOTALS                                                                          T.otal
Settlers&houzes           -          483        405      1,057      825     2,77i'
P?.mary roads (tdles)   3              6         10.5      -         -         19.5
Secondary roads (iles) 2                8         7          6        -         23
Village roads (miles)   -              7.5        6.5       16.3    1L.1       h2 . 4
Staff quarters            -           21         21         65       42      li9
Offices and Stores        -             1         1          3        2          7
Water Supply Systems    -               1         1          3        2          7
(completed)



LN8x 6
The jeng,c Triangle Pco_sct
9rojoct Coscs and Oisbursensnt Vstiautss-
(s$ tooo)
A. PFROJECT  COST ESTLNA
:. FfvDl ASt?RNDI=2.S
A,TAc *tura.i. Oevelcrmnt                                       1967         1960        1969         1970         1971         1972         1973         197L         TAL
t .lesrmg-Paymenes ca    eCractcrs                         *or        2<I          3, 30       2            ~                              -            - 1 _
?ertllizerr  and Pesticides                                   .         151          386          7.3        l.Ou           933          733          366         u,j21
Pald 3eed1±ngs                                              155         580          689          996          626           23            -            -          ,269
Other FL3A Sxpenditurs                                        -         il4          689        1,ses        2,LCS        2,L78          1     53bC               9,335
977       3CI1S        3,u20        7.c2         c 272        *.^;         2,207         '-C         3'.
Rcusinz and Moueiot oevavonsment
Land Zie ng                                                 106          89          231          181            -            -            -            -           607
House  6orstruction                                           -           2        1,719        1,L98         ,32             -            -            -         1,709
Proces5i.- .ac:1iti.s
11                                                            _         305            -          7L4            _        3,192        1,856        1,789         7,538
Hous.ing fcr Mill Staff                                       -           -            -            -            -          263            -            -           2
-         3DS - - j,235  - :,                      -°-0             ;:,:jl
yLanagement
oe.-lo_es and  ;nuipmnt                                                 14 5          63          190          127            -            -            -          525
Housing ard 3ffizes                                           _         515          456          431          311            -            _            _        1,716
Salarses and Other Current Costs during developoRbet          6         530       1I22          1,179        1666        1,28         1,188          3*9         7,715
3.      1.>90__.;2                2.103        2,1v;0 1     :.2A         1,95 :2
Res,eroh  a rorsa.-_g
Land  evearoDmient aar  9usaerry                              -         17L          187           89            _            _            _
3uilding.s ann Housing                                                  225           6L           53            _            -            -            -           3L2
; sicles and Lquipwmat                                                   91           12           b6            -            -            -            -           1249
-         :a50         263          loS                   -           -                   -S
2/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
Contingenciesr                                                     1          126          13           331    i3      3          366          516    v     il         2,i69
FL-  3?DID-  2:         tZG      O m::I!C2                     1,o8s        5,312        S,jq1      11,a32        9,700        8,91s0       5.3"3        ',ZaO        51,ll9
ThA L  mDIT2R2   fL.D01?fW0WCIX                                10190 _i LC               o,._ _6     2,  o         ,-300   _Z               53,3    _                     A.
:0-sanest Oaring 2,tat1shi"an                                      -          .30         715        1,_29        1,Si3        ' _99        2.2'a        2..t,        LO__a   '
33721 5112. 352.0735^32S  3...'icu   03VS Cb                  1,D90 i,3-c 5,4d2 13,291 . r .   ' '       ,      0      7                                       C95 a;_o9 aoS3
2.  '.0'23 ' XI3M ITU'P39R'
Rsoads                                                           370        2,36D       3,675        2,390        :,565            -            _            _        10,360
.,ar.ar                                                           SS          665       1,u35        1,520          270            -            -            -         j,975
! i :frastucturse                                              -         715         _663         .150        2,213   _       31          91l            -          ,347
'iRii MN 5DI~.             R25 14:,                                        1,270 .,,                                      7 3  ,u6 3,, 7e  531  j                     21,682
..  33731 --:LA 00                 _                               1,5L5       10,636      15,255      !9354        14991:       12,338        9,0le        6,309        39,113
3. -3RD Di .sburv O t isoiste
(113 1000)
100 PeroenA,1 of:
Agricu: toar  Deveio3ent - Land Claring,
?arents to Contractora                                           1,651       3,456        3,328        2,2C0          623            _            _         ,753
Housing ann Houselot Zse30o=ent -  L   Clzirong                          89          231          181            -            -            -            -           531
- Houme  onatructstlon               692        1,195        la,a       1,3214            -            -           -         u,709
?rccessL-g Fac-ties - Mrii                                             305            -          74l            -        3,192        1,S58       1,789         7,z83
- P.ousing for Mill. Starf                         -           _      -                  -          263            -            -           263
M.ianagemnt - Housing and rffices                                       515          456          '34          311    _          _  _                            1,71S
Researcn and  raining - 1UiIdIngs and Housing                           225           64           53            _            _            _            -           3;2
Agricu.tusa. Z,velopmsnt - Fertilizers and Festloides                    ?9          270          159          728          653          514          256        2,993
Hanagement - Vehicles and 24fireeat                                     102           44          133           S9            -            -            -           j Y
Research and Training - Vehicles and Equpseirt                           63            a           33            -            -            -            -
3rAl IBED 0ISB'JE2HNTS ALANST 000S                                        3,721        5,724        7,402        1,652        4,731        2,372        2,3o5        30,6u7
AL IA   2   DIS3URS&TS AAIAZST COTINiC25NT                                 69            -          166            -          712          4;4          399        1,760
I3RD '!.S- FlTiNSCM                                                          123          451          917        1,377        1,793        2,176        2,131         9,321
I3fi     I CC 7..    3MAR9R  78A90C9                                         307          267          212          156          136           SO                       -,I
C'LinT IV  B..D  W0AN A7                          921D ,220                           1C,662       19.359       25,5_1:     32e,86        3-7,58    42,31           13,-.C
1/  Years e.a'ng Septrsber 30.
V/  Cznoti,genolss -nolse:  CL1 u-Z. M01,730,ZO  - Salaries 93419,300.
3   ?ercenoages shown S2 rot azoly to all expenad:-ures showr. arder sro3eot  cost in L967 and 196e as Ocisurse-ents would only Dse  ade agey-jst oxoend4tu.es
mouser4 after loan sign are,.
1  These disbcrsenents would 'e  .ade either 'or -C oercent of the costs on sita wr..ch are :he costs snh,n in part A, aDose or agaiLst documents zcr lCO percent
of *.oe ZI? values at a Halayeiaocr.t wfsmch ase estt.ated to A-e spzr^ia.a-e-0y 70 percen-t o on sits cos,s.



AML'EX 7
Page  I.
MALALESIA
Jengka Triangle Project
FLDA Estimated Source and Disposition of Funds re Jengka
1.         Table 1 shows the movement of fmnds within FLDA which would
result from the proposed project.   It is presented by years as follows:
1967/1974 - Period of Government/Bank disbursement.
1975/1985 - Period of F-LDA repayments of Baaik finance and majority
oJ settlers' repayments to FLDA.
1986/1994 - Period to end of' project life (determined by life of
oil palm).
19951A999 - Period from end o-f project life to end of FLDA repay-
ments of' Government finance.
As stated in para 4.20, the Bank lo=n would be for a period of 20 years;
allowing a margin for unforeseen circ=mstances over the above tiL7niXg.
2.        Each settler wculd reray project costs, writh interest, to EIDA
under two heads.  The first w^iould be loan repayrments covering direct dejdl-
opment costs of house, houselot and oil palm block.   The second would ue
by the inclusion in the processing charge of a sun per ton of ffb to cover
capital element of oil mial ccnstruction and all mapnagement costs during
development.  Both of these are shown under sources in Table 1.  Other
elements of the processing charge are not shown as they woiLld ccnsist of
revenue expenditures by FLDA irmediately rechargeable to settlers.  The
total processing charge during the period up to 1985 would average M $30
per ton of £fz.  After 1985, when the capital repayment element would
Cease, the charge would be lcwer although Annex 13 which shows the budget
of a typical settler is conservative in that the charge of NJ $30 is used
throughout.
3.        During the period of Government and Bank disbursemzent up vo 197!,,
Table 1 shows an accILmulated excess of funds of scme X $9 million.  This
is because the project is phased and this excess consists of repayments
frcm the earlier settlers which wrould ccmmence before all capitai expend-
itures and Government and Bank disbursements were ccmplete.  It is not
shOwn as lessening the requirement for finance as any slight delay in the
forecast progress of the project would substantially reduce it.
4.       Substantial excess funds are shmon on Table 1 during the period
up to 1985 although a final cumulative deficiency of some M $10 millicn is
shown, by 1999.  This pattern of flow results from the terms of the Gove..-
ment finance which has a greatly extended grace ard repayment period.  I'ne
GovernMent is awiare of this and the excess could either be used for early
rePayment of Government finance or utilized by FLDA on otiher projects
arpProved by Government.   he M   $10 million deficiency arises from the pay-
menrt of interest by FLDA to Governm,ent for long after 1985 when it wclfd
cease to earn i;rterest frcn settlers.   If in fact the stream of excesz3s
and deficiencies is valued at five percent (the rate of interest charged
to FLDA by Government) a clmulative excess results.  This is to be e-ezt.d
as -Thile there would be no profit m.argin to FLDA on Bank fin2ance rappc>y.e
by settlers and no profit margin on onmili operation, there is a small
profit n.argin on Goverrment finance on-lent to se-+ers.



MAL.AYSifA
JE'IKA TH [ANGLE PROJECT
'LDA Estimated Soiiece aridDsposition of_ Funds Re Jengka                                          (M  1000)
Years ending September 30
Total        Total         Total        rottA
Yea-rs       Yei;          Years           ars
1967       1968       3969       1970       1971       1972       1973        1971T      T9 -          M7F-         i1pW-        1 -
SO'URCE
Loans:  Gover,ieent                                 1,090      2,11,8     3,040      4.5997     5,231      11,365     3,073      1,077       21i,621
HLIRD                                        3--9-               5,72h,    'i,568      11,652     5.43       2,786      2, L,      32,07
1,090      5,938      8,76)4   12,165       9,883      9,8'W8     5,859      3,521       57,028
tnt.erest Capitalized:  Ouverrai,ent                                                                          51t       161        313          528        6,858
I13RD                                  1030       718      1,129      1,533       1,899      2,236      2,)188     10,1433
Settlers:  Loan repaymients                                                                                  1,1,3    1,650      3,3714       9),167      51i,808
Processirng Charge - Capital Element                                                                                    97_ 399  99  1   3,1,07  33,076
TOTAL SOURCES                                         1,090      S,9.38     8,768,   12,165       9,883    10,6146       8,60),     8,812      65,902        87,88)i
I;I'I'(SITION
Project Coats: (FLDA per Annex 6)                   1,090      5,938      8,76)1    12,165      9,Cf83     9,80t0    5,859        3,521      57,028
Loan Rlepaymenits, Govertiment                                                                                                                            13,303        27,215         5,71M2
I MITD                                                                                                                                 6or511 
T(yrAL D19P(fSIT0INS                                  1,090      5,938      8,764,   12,165       9,8)13      9,808      5,859      3,521      57,028        73,811)      27,215         5,7112
Excess (dei'ctleicy) of funds - annual                                                                          838     2,7145      9,291       8,8711       1),070      (27,215)       (5,7142)
Exceuis (deficiency) of funds - cumulative                                                                        82                                                                                          s2
olltstandlr)g dt rsxicd ends                                                      83t~~~~~~~ii  se,58  8,87),     8,871        220))x        (4,271)    (10,013)                t
ou1ttabndin)g at peiodX'0  ends                                                                              ia        ,u                                    ,n,                                          ,
1/    These are not cash items u.nd are the ref're shiw,n in
menenirandum o"ily arit not aided irito Total Sources.



Ai7EX 8
Page 1
MALAYSDA
JENG-KA TRIAMGTE PROJECT
TTIE SELECTT'ION
1.       XFLDA schemes are designed basically for rural people who either
possess no lard or have insufficient land to support an adecuate standard
of living.  Selection of Tnemgka project settlers .,7uld CQnfl= to this
basic pclicy.
2.        The Federal Covernment stipulates that 20 peraent of places in
all FLDA schemes -,ill be allocated to ex-memfbers of the security forces pro-
vided tuhat sufficient applicants in this category come forward aind have the
mirimum qualifications.  in the case of the Jengka Project, and as a con-
dition of providing the land, the State of Pahang has stipulated that 50
percent of the settlers (other than ex-servicemen) shlould be -lYom the State
of Pahang, provided they possess the Tinimum  u7alifications.
3.        Selection would be in twCo stages.  i.rst, al&vlicants would be
interviewed in their hcme distrricts throughout Malysia by  y  LDA staaf m.em-
bers and local officials .iho have a knowledge of the dist:-.ict and its
people.  At this stage the candidatesI general suituability would be de-
terminad, and the basic rinim=t, criteria for selection applied.  These
would be that the candidate:
(a) is a i4a'aysian, citizen;
(b) is married;
(c) - has no serious criminal record;
(d) is physically and mentally fit;
(e)  is prepared to abide by the rules and regulatiorns established
by ET-A for the conduct of its scheries;
(f)  has less than. two acres of land; and
(g) is over 21 a.nd under 46.
Previous agricultiural experience is not a prerecuisite; those with relevant
background wiould be given preference under the point system employed for
selection.
4.        Following the interview, points woiuld be awarded to each candi -
date, up to a ma2imu  of 30, on the basis of the fo-lowing scales:
Age  Pointsl'    .g.^'Points         Age  Points       Age,.Points
21     3           2-7    9          33     7          39     3
22     4           28    10          34     6          40     3
23     5           29    10          35     5          41     2
24     6           30    10          36     5          142    2
25     7           31     9          37     4          43     1
26     8           32     8          38     4          44     1
145    1



A7111x 8
Page 2
No. of Children..?oints             wnarship o- Land..Points
5 and above       5                '-ndar ½- acre       5
h          a                   ½ acre            4
3          3                   1 acre            3
2          2                   1½ acres          2
1          1                   2 acres           1
0          0
Bonuls Points - A-ricultuz al Backzround..Poin.ts
Pubber                              4
Oil Palm                            4
Dusun or vegetable caltivation    1
Animal husbandry                    1
In the case of' the Jengka Project, the second and f'inal stage of
selection would be conducted by a project selection corznittee.  This would
consist of tio representatives from F-LDA, one rerpresentative from the GovMrn-
ment of the State of Pahang and the District Officer for the Jengka area.
This committee would be supplied by FWDA with lists cof recomrnmended candidates
and supporting data.



L13EX 9
Page 1
MALAYSIA
JENQKA TRIAIGILE PROJECT
SETTI&ENT OPERATION AN3D 1DMISTRATION
Credit Arrangem.ents
1.        A loan account would be opened for each settler which would be
charged with the 9ull cost of his house, of clearing his houselot, and of
developing ten acres of oil palms (from land clearing to the end of four
years after planting). During the development period these costs, which
would not include management costs, would be computed for each phase of a
scheme, paragraph 4.05 of the Main Report, and allocated equally to parti-
cipants in that phase.  Settlers would sign their loan agreements at the
conclusion of the development period, at which time they would be informed
of the detailed amount and makeup of their loan and the arrangements for
repayment.
2.        Interest would be charged at 65  percent on the loan arnd would be
capitalized in the development period.  The following table shows the accu-
nmlation, over the development period, of the loan account of a typical
settler:
LOA- ACCGG1T CF T7PICAL SETTLER DUFOG EEVEL0P=ETNT
--------- Zears from clearing   ----
1       2        3       ). / x      5f.TOrK
Field Development Costs             2,400   3,340   2,350   1,610-  1,150 10,3b5%
House and Houselot                     219   1 700      -       -             1.912
2,619  1        2,350   1T5   l,         12,762'
Interest at 6-4 percent per annum     164      489     666      809     931   3.059
Cumrlative loan account         m            8.312   l2   1377   1 =           15_,_26
3.        The 2P, palms would come into bearing some two and one -half years
aLter planting- , but production would be low until after the end of four
years.  The sale proceeds from ffbo produced up to the end of the four,h
year would be credited to FLDA and deducted proportiorally, from each
settler's loan account.
1/! Net of revenue from sale of ffb produced in years 4 and 5.
2/ Approximately three and one-half years after land clearing.



AMTEU 9
Page 2
4;.       The settler would repay his loans by equal annual installmnents
of principal and interest over a period of ten .  rs.  Repayments would
start during the jifth year after palm planting3  , from wnich time ffb
produced would be the property of the settlers, Loan repaywents wvould be
deducted at source from payn.ents made by the FIJDA awned and operated mi.ll to
settlers for their ffb.  The costs of fertilizers and other inputs, supplied
to settlers from the beginning of the fifth year also -wiould be reco7ered in
t;his way, as would mandatory contributions to a replantirg fund.
5.        During the development pariod, settlers would have two mmin sources
of income.  First, wages paid for work on the project, which would be man-
datory  mhen allocated by the scheme managemznt; and second, a subsistence
allowance  'or any number of work days less than 24 per ronth, when the scheme
management could not provide work.  For mandatory work, the settler would  e --
paid M$2.90 per day; and the subsistence allowance would  be equivalent to
about 14$1.70 per day.  In general, settlers wrould be expected to earn, from
allocated work, about ?Z70 per month in the development period, which woul!d
be satisfactory. 7T.llle from tire to time all settlers probably woul draw
subsistence loans, total amrounts per settler w.ould not be large, according-
1Y no account has been taken of subsistence loans in. the cost estimates
used in tuhis report.
6.        Wages paid to settlers would be debited to phase development; on
the other hand subsistence allowances would be debit ed to indiidual. set-
tlers' loan accounts.  Duplicates of these accounts TwouLd ce kept at the
schemes, and settlers woould recaive annual statements and be able to examiins
their accounts or. requast.
7.        tIanagement costs during the deve1cprent period would be capital-
ized *with interest, and recovered by an addition to the processing charge
per ton of fib levied by FLDA in the operating period. This charge would
be applied for the period of loan repa-yments, and would be about 2X!$8 per
ton of ffb.  This arrangement would provide the most equitable distribution
of management costs.
8.        Mo other costs would be debited to settlers during developm.en.t.
Water would be pro-vided free by the State Gover-ment, and land rents and
survey fees wrould be capitnlized and included in a consolidated annual
charge which would be paid when the scheme became operational.  All other
project costs 7ould be treated as normal Government expenditures in pro-
viding infrastracture and services and would not be charged to settlers.
1/ Bquivalent to year 6 in the table in para. 2.



4AMIM'X 9
Page .3
Title Arranieenents
9.        The Land (Group Settlement Areas) Act of 1960 ,nith certain. rinor
amendments made -nder the Land (Group Settlement Areas) (@rzmendment) Act of
1965 contains the basic Federal legislaticn wihich -would pertain to tie de-
velopment of the Jengka Triangle.
10.       In general, the Act gives powers to the relevant State Authority,
and then under Section 34(l) allows the State Authority to delegate these to
FLDA, to develop any State land as a group settlement area.  The Act also
gives FLDA the power to organize cooperatives for the operation of all or
part of the areas under its charge.  It also specifies the relevant minister
(i.e., the idnister for National and Rural Davelopment) as the final recourse
of any person aggrieved by F-LDA or its Chairman.
1l.       In essence, the Act is satisfactory for the requirements of the
development of the Jengka project except Jn the case of compensation for
settlers who 'Or arm  reason leave the settlement.  lihile modification of the
Act would be desirable, legislating neceszary amenoments would be di-fficult
and time consuming. The Government agrees that the question of compensation is
±naddq7atal-y  treated and the settlerst loan agreemerts would regulate the
terms of the assignment and transm-ssion of holdings, the rreans through
which settlers wo-uld obtain compensation.
12.       A form of settlerstloan agreement has been prepared, arnd agreed
with the Bark, which together 1.eith the Land (Group Settlement Areas) Act
allows the legal adoption of the settlement operating procedures described
below.
13.       During the developm.ent period settlers would be subject to tlhe
authority of 3ID.A management and be required to abide by rules and condi-
tions specified by FILA.  Within thils period, which would extend for a maxi-
mum of three years, i.e., to the erd of four years after palm plantir~g,
settQlers would be liable to dismissal from the settlement by -FTDA without
compensation for major breacnes of these rules.
14.       On entering the operationial phase of the settlement the position
of th,e settler would change, At this point, he would sign his settlers'
agreement, he registered as an occupier in expectation of title to a share
in a large block of oi7 palms in common with a group of other settlers, and
be entitled to compensation in the case of his voluntary wiithdrawal from the
settlement.  He would continue to work, however, under the direction of the
-FIDA schemre manager on a group working basis.
F/ ive years after land clearing, and eqliivalent to the end of year   in
the table in para. 2.



A.rflEI 9
Page 4
15.       It would be iLpractical to operate the settlement initially as a
grouP of individual srallholdings, WThile there is no doubt that some
settlers would be able to manage individual holdings satisfactorily, a
large number would not have sufficient experience with oil palms to do so.
Further, aven with individual holdirgs, group working is the most efficient
method of ffb harvesting and collection. For these reasons the settlement
would be operated during the first five-year meriod of loan repayments as
a group enterprise, with settlers providing their labor as directed by the
scheme management and receiving wages and an equitable share of any surplus
resulting from the sale of ffb, At the end of this period, settlers would
be allocated individual ten-acre blocks of oil palms 'by means of a lottery
supervised by FLDA. Frrom this point on a settlert s status would change
from being a joint occupier in expectation of title to the whole settlement
area, to one of being an occupier in exDectat"oon of title to a spenific
ten-acre block of oil pal.s. Bach settler would ten have the choice of
working his holding as an iLndividual or of participating in a numnber of
alternative joint exploitation activities. Since there would be some bene-
fits in comunal working, either in large or small groups, FLA management
would provide assistarce in organizing this where individual settlers re-
quested it.  Until loan repayments were complete, the  LhDA manager would
retain final control of zield operations as provided for currently under the
Land (Group Settlement Areas) Act. By the end of the loan repaymrent period,
FLDA Would aim at developing any such formal settler organizations as -w;oud
be desirabl_e to inure the ccntinued successful development of the area and
which would reflect the desires of the settlers. As a result of this in-
creasing participation of settlers in scherre management, the numbers of YLDA
Junior management staff would be run dn   gradually.
16.       The success of the proposed methods of operation would be dependent
upon the full understanding and cooperation of the settlers. To inure
settler understanding and cooperation the project would include personnal
especially rmssisLble fcr the social and con3mercial development of the set-
tlers' and an attachment to each settler's loan agreement would provide clear
details for the methods of settlement operation.
17.       Settlers w.ould be required, under the the terms of their agree-
ments, to sell all- fb produced on their holdings to :TIDA, which would own
ard operate the mills processing project ffb. These would be operated on
a non-profit making basis but with a system of efficiency incentives for
staff. Payr.ents to settlers for ffb purchases made by F1DA would be based
on a formula incorporating, among other items, operating expenses, amorti-
zation, capital charges and world prices for palm produce.
18.       Settlers would be required to pay for all managermnt costs, those
incurrsd during the period of settlement development, 4.e., up to the end
Of the fourth year, being capitalized and recovered during the operating
pere-d, para. 7.      Management costs during the operating period would
be comnuted annually and recovered from the sales proceeds of settlers
fTb. Additionally, a mandatory levT-- would be made by FTA to proV_de
for a replanting fund.



AMThX 9
Page 5
19.                 Surmiary Timetable of Settler Position
Year from
Clearing                           Legal                Loan
(Clearinz =  ear 0)               Status                Repayment
1.                         --)                  Lcan amount
2. ) Works under directicn  )                   increasing Twith
3. 3       of FLDA           )                  various de-velop-
e 3                          )                  ment exnendituLres.
5.                     Luring year signs        Loan repayments
settler agreement be-   commence.
comes occupier in ex-
pectation of title to
a share in a large
block of oil palms in
common with a group of
other settlers.
6/9.                   Continues as in Year 5  )
10.                    During year, becomes    )
occupier in expectation   L loan repaymerts
of' title to a specific  ) continue.
10-acre block of oil    )
palms.                   )
1/14.                 Continues as in. Year 10 )
15.                    Lease granted to settler  Loan repayments
by Statev.                 terianate



A_NN 10
Page 1
LIAAYSIA
JEN  1EKA TIA2ME  ROJECT
P-MSSIo CAL & TCMTCGAL STAFF MQUSIMMIJTS
1.        The follawing table shows the staff required to execute the pro-
ject, the headquarters element of which would be strengthened in the event
of a decizion to imPlement further phases of the Triangle Program:
R            1967-1976: STIe?F IN FOf T BY T!ARS
Project Headquarters:   1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 2.972 1973 197L 1975 1976
Director                   2    1    1  )
Senior Planting Officer   1    1    1  )
Senior Settler Develop-
mnrt Officer                  1    l  )
Sernor Land Admiristrator 1    1    1  )
Senior Engineer            1    1    1  )
Administration Officer    1    1    1  )
Progress and Evaluation
Officer                 1    1    1  )         and subsecuent years
Accoaitant                 1    1    1  )
Surveyor                   1    1    1  )
Er.gineer                  I    1    1  )
Pla.nting Officer          1    1    1  )
N.rsery Officer            1    1    1  )
Agriculti.ra.1 Officer     1    1    1  )
Settler Development
Officer                -    -    1  )
Cooperative Officer        -    1    1  )
Land Administrator         -    -    1  )
yMii  Consultant           -    -    1  )
Research Centert
Agronomist I                    -          1  )
Agronomist II              -    -    1    1  ) and subsequent years
Farm lanager               -    1    1    1  )
7iLs:
Senior 14iJ1 Engineer      -    -    -         -   -    -    1    1    2
Ys1.11 Engineers           2    2    2         2   2    2    2    2    2



AN11M 10
:'age 2
Training Center:         1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1       975 1976
Senior T.aining
Officer               -    1    1  )        and subsequent years
Training Officer           -    1    1  )
Scheme Managerment:
Manager                    1    5    7    7    7)
Settler Develop-
ment O'ficer           -    2    6    7    7  3
Senior Supevisor           5   '8   27   28   28  )        and subsequent years
Field Assistant           1-2  37   56   56   56  )
Assistant Manzger          4    6    7    7    7  )
Recruitment and Training
2.        Presently, Managers and Assistant Saanagers are reccruited (a)
directly fron the prirate estate sector3 and (b) fom. amng graduates of the
Un.iversity of IMIaysia and the Serdang Agricultural College.  The private
source is very limited, however, due to the higher salaries paid in the es-
tate sector.  ln order to ensure a satisfactory supply of candildates for
these posts, FLDA is providin-g scholarships to the Serdang Agricultural
College where holders obtain a three-year course in agriculture. Addition-
a11y it operates a Cadet Scheme, under this cadets aze rec!uii.ed from among
saitable secondary school leav7ers, and follo-ing a two-week introdactor,,
course at FLAs raining center, begiLn a one-year probationary period in
-hich they receive in-service training. If this is camileted satisfactorily,
the cadet is appointed as a Cadet-Assistant, and following 18 months in
this grade, to Assistant.  After three years satisfactory enmloyment in the
latter grade, the eiployee is eligible for promotion to the post of Assistart
Manager.
3.        A study of FIDA's total field staff requirements, including those
of the project, shm.os that as a result of its training programs and those of
other agencies in Malaysia, it is in the grade of  anm1agers alone that a short-
fall may occur.  Possibly this can only be avoided by an improvement in the
conditions of service for this grade w-hich would enable accelerated recruit-
ment from the private sector, Tt would be most important that the cornditions
of service of this grade should be kept under review.
4.        As far as the more zJunior field staff are concei-ned - Senior
Surervisors and Field Assistants - there is no problem. Field Assistants
are recruited from secondary school leavers and folloa.ng a two-week tra:,>g
course, receive on-the-job training.  Senior Supervisor is a promotion post
for the Field Assistant, and additionally, staff in this grade are recruited
directly from the private estate sector, in this case FLEA terms of service
are attractive.
T The qualifications and experience required for appoiLn-nent to the
-cst of Settvler Develonn-ent Officer have not -oeen established.  This would be
done fallm.ng the appointment of the Division Director and the Head of tUhe
Settler Development Department.. Appointees would be generaLsts and in-
service tra;inig wou_d be needed aend be tailored to the job requirement.



IMIAYSIA                         AMI  11
,MI&' 'RIGTE PR.OJECT
D   P P Mater ia. 60 Pa:Lms per ApM2       - iaSl
Palm Year       Ff/Acre       % Oil    Oil/Acre % Kernel  Kenrel/Acre
(In Field)        vos)       to F fb    (Tcons)   To Pfb    (To5
3rd (2 -3)        0.5          12.0      0.06       4.o       0.02
hth (3-4)         3.6          24.0      0.50       4.4       0.L6
5th (h-5)        6.3           16.0     :0o         4.5       0,28
6th (5-6)         8.5          17.0      i.45       4.8       0.]12
7th (6-7)         9.0          18.5     1.c7        5,0       0,45
8th (7-8)         9.5         20.0       1.90       5.0       0.47
9th (8-9)        9.8          21.0       2.C6       5aO       0.49
10th (9-10)      10.0           21.0      2.10       5.0       0.50
lith (1O_11 -)     9.7         2}.0       2.04       5.0       0.0
12th (11-12)       9.5         21.0       2.00       5.0       o.47
13th (12-13)       9.3          21L0      1.95      5.0       0o2L6
2lth (13-h1)       9.0          21.0      1.89      5.0        O.L5
15th (14-15)       8.8         21.0       1.85       5.0       Oo
16th (15-16)       8.6          21.0      1.81      5.0        0ea3
17th (16-17)       8.4          21.0      1.76       5.0       0.42
18th (17-18)       8,2         21e0      1.72       5.0      0oh1
19th (18-19)       8.0          21.0      1i68       5.0      0.h0
20th (19-20)       7.8         21.0      1.64        5.0     039
21st (20-21)      7.6           21.0     1,60       5.0        0.38
22nd (21-22)      7.4          21.0    1l55          540      0237
23rd (22-23)      7.2          21.0      1,51       5.0      0o36
24,th (23-22h)    7.0          21.0    1i47         5.0       0.35
25th (24-25)      7.0          21.0       1.47      5.0       0,35
Average Anrual    -
Yt eld Years 3
throuuh 25      7.86        1988      1.60        L<q      0,39
l' Tco r=e Lito bearing an c;i last six  orths of thz -t.5.c. yea Ln the
field,



AMNMT 12
Page 1
Y4AIAYSTA.
uJBGKA TRMNGIL PROJECT
PRICE AND KVRT P MPECTS FMR PAL PROCE .
1.        The future world fats axI oils situation w'rU be largely influenced
by two maor developments:  (1) the decline in the growth rate of irort de-
mand in Western Europe, which is the major buyer on the world market, and (2)
the exPected increases in the production of vegetable oils.  Developing
countries plan to use oilseeds as a basis for the diversification of their
agriculta..al exports, the prcmotion of industrialization through constr ction
of processing facilities, or in order to slow down increasing vegetable oils
imports,
2.        These developmnts may result in an exparsion of supplies to world
export markets at a greater rate of gmrTth than has been experienced in the
past.  However, this situation  ill not develop if t1he expansion plans of' the
developing countries do not materialize to tne extent planned, or if the
additional cutput is increasingly consumed in the producing or other developi..g
countries.  In the past (1950-1965) per capita consumption in developing
countries has increased but not sufficienltly to narrow  significantly the gap
betwseen per capita consumtion in them (less than 6 kilograms) and per capita
consu=tion in the developed countries (2h kilograms).
3.        The production of all fats and oils increased by 4 percent ann=ally
in the period from 7 51-55  to 196i-65, hile +he production of p'ain oil ir
the same period increased by only 1.5 percent amnually. Consu tfacnp as well
as production developments in the developing ccuntries, does not pOLint to-
wards a large excess SuDply of fats and oils on the world market,  The picture
s s Wmewhat clouded, however, by the uncertainties of the fats and oils situa°
tion in the Easterr. European countries, in particular the Soviet TUnion, and
in! M4a-iland China. These countries ha7e been net importers in the cast but
there is 5omle daubt whether this situation will continue.  In particalar.,
sunflower oil e=orts fzom  the Soviet Union may become a major factor on the
future international market.
4.        Considering past trends and future prospects, it appears that the
world supply and demand of all fats and oils will have risen from 34.9
million tons per annum in 1961-63 and be in approd;mate balance at h6.6
millicn tons in 1975. Tn this situation, prices are likely to be somewhat
lower than the price levels which prevailed in 1962-63. However, further
decreases in nominal prices, due to lower demand, could be experienced for
oils used for industrial purposes other than food or soap:, such as castor
oil, linseed oIl and low quality palm oil, the latter being nainly produced by
African growers who use traditional processing methods.
5.        Palm oil prices have sho-onm a moderately rising trend relative to the
price of fats and oils as a whole.  It appears that the strength of paLm oil
prices has sterred mainly frcm the relative lag in suDpliese  From 195556
to 1963-65 the estimated production of all fats and oils increased by 27 per-
cent but that of' palm oil by only 6 percent.  At the same tizne, the price
index for all fats and oils fell by 3 percent wrbdle the price index for palm



AN= 12
Page 2
oil actualy .mcreased by 5 percent.  Another factor aczbig for the  acre
in Palm oil prices is that the improved quality of palm oil exports that ha3
occured 4in All producing cres ha  widen   is range of uses in importing
countries, thereby exercising a stronger influence on demand.
6.        On the2 other han.d, the long-term, dawnzward drift in the price of
other vegetable oils, ccupled witha the slightly rising trend in paln oil
quotations has manit that palm oi.l has now become less cheap in re1 ti on to
soft oils then in the early fifties and  i  conseqence, there has been some
deterioratiim  in its con=etitive positicn for food uses. HoIce7r, s5Lce
future palm oil exports are expected t,o increase at a greater rate than in the
past, palm oil price wrill decline in line with other fats and oils prices
thereby. regaining to some extent the relative cometL tive positilond
7.        The competitive position of palm oil has also tuended to deteziorate
in respect of fish oil and tallow.  The latter is now the leading ingredient _
soap preparations in industrialied c  ntries.  Palm oil and fish oil, whic
were fomerly mainly used for soap malkingg now find uses in the food industry
and are substitutable for each other.  The declinirg siuply of whale oil has
actually favored the increased use of pal:m oiI i mazrgarine and shortening
production.  If, however, the production of fish oils continues to increass
at a rate as great or greater than in the past, this my affect palm oil
utilization.  Developments in the output of fish oil irn Peru, the world1s
largest prcducer, will have a decidJng irnlaence or the futu-re utilization of
paLi  oil in the industrialized countries,
8.        To a considerable extert, the increase in world exports cf fats and
onis in the last decade has been thes result of increased shipments of soybeans
and soybean oi-7 from the USA.  The increased demand for soybeans .which stin-
ulated these shipments has been largely the resut of an increasing dema-nd for
soYbean meal by the growing livestock  industries of West luronean countries.
From 1953-55 to 1563-65 the increase in US scybean and soybean oil exports
accounted for 51 percent of the total increases  -in world exports of fats and
oils in the same period.  Ho~wever, a part of US soybean oil expor 3 mOve
IUnder PL 4680 terma and, therefore, do not enter the interaaticnal comnercial
ma-ket  T'ne USA plar.s further increases in the production of s~ovbeans and it is
estimated that in 1975 apprximsatly 7.5 mi-lion ton.s of So n oil ec_valent
*will be prodaued, ard that of this approxi'nately 1.6 milJ.".n  `,.ns (i.e. about
13 percent of 1975 world exports) w-ill be exported, with  C2'0   tons mov-ig
under c=1cessional terms compared -wth 6090co tons in :            "35 - .s expected
increase in soybean oil exports Twill contribute to thze              f fall of all
fats and oil prices and is taken account of in the forecact that by 1975 the
world demand and supply of fats and oils will be in apprcxima-e balance.
9.        In vielw of the above considerations, the use of the fob prices for
palm oil and palm kernels which appear in the table belcw is justified.  As
is shonr  by the attached chart-, these are generally -ithin the range of p-ices
now predicted by the Bank's i-4po?rt-Projedt:Lons and Trade Division,



AL       12
Page 3
EST4IA$D PAI! OL AND  -AL4v MMEL PRICES
USED Di *  CAICULATIOI CF PROJECT BEFITSE
Price  aer long ton fobL/
Palm Oil     1970   1971   1972   1973   197h   1975 and subsecuent ;ears
II$        550    5h0    530    520    510                  500
US$         180    177    174    170    167                  163
Pal7m Kerne2a
Y1$        3L5    3h0    335    330    325                  320
IJS$        113   l11    109   i13    106                    105
10.       Devaluation of the British pound in N1ove1rmber 1967, combined with
unusually high shipments of fish oil and Russian sun.±hwer oil in 1967
caused a sharp drop in the London price for palm oil after devaluation.
In January 1968, the London cif price was equivalent to US$194 per ton
which compares waith US$209 per ton cif forecast for 1970.  It is expected
that London prices will rise again, reflecting expected lower shipments
of fish oil in 1968 and subsequent years, the evening out of the effects
of devaluation, and the fact that world shipments of palm oil will not
rise substantially until the early 19701s. For this reason, in prepar-
ing price projections account has not been taken of the recent decline
in prices.
1/  Ocean freight to UK and tahk clearing charges total M,$80 (US$26.1)
per ton. This should be added to the above fob prices to obtain
cif UK equivalents.



COMPARATIVE PRICES FOR MAJOR FATS AND OILS AND
BANK FORECAST FOR PALM OIL PRICE RANGE, 1968-1975
(M$ PER LONG TON)
1,200 - - ---- - -- 1- - --- ---1I-----|----------  [----I- -r -  -  ------   1  z       I [   _ --   - Ir---- ---  I , 200
.        OGROUNDPNUT OIL - cif., U.K.
I, I   0 0 .*o.    ,_o... _ . _ ..... ........                                 .     .                  ..                             1, I   O O
1 ,0 0 0              *  -   ---  -- 4   ---                        *4    -    --   -   -- - - - ------0------------
.A   .   .....4........00
1,000 y . \ , . . _ ,,. _ ............................... _ .... . . ..... . . .o o ... .. . _ _ . ._. _. . ___ ................_........._.._................
* \.    ..           ..               .         *...
800  ----r-------\_                          \            --------                                                              -----  900
800  J-\                                           / \_z>6*tt;   \ \ 8  -SOYBEAN OIL -c.if, European Ports                            8
700                                                                  t                                                                      __C ...___W. __    _700
6 ( ) O ~PALM   OiL - c.i.f., European  _P_____orts......  .__.__  ._  ___60
PROJEC  PRODUCED PALM OiL-clf. 
g   5001.  .  l  -        -             1                                                            15~~~~~~~~~~00
1955  1956  19 57  195B 1959 1960  1961 1962 1963 1964  1965 1966  196-t 1968 1969  1970  1971 1972  1973  1974 1975                          >
--                 -A CTUAL                                                                --FORECAST            ---  700
IBRL- U632 . ' 
0  _       _  _  _  _  _        _  .  _  _ _



MALA rS IA
TllE JENiKA TRIAII0LE PI)JECT
FAR3 iM 01E  Or  A ITPIGAL SE-yLER
ful)     Ye.~~ros d. Claringi/-
5 - 6        7           8                                  f                                  I-            1911,    25
Prodllctlon, (tons),
Fft,                                                        63         115           90          95          98        100           97          95          93          90           8e          78          70
011                                                          10         14           17          19          21          21          20          20          20          19           18          16          15
Kro6ela                                                       3         4             5           5           5           5           5           5           5           5           Is           I           It
r,,tOl Oil l& tranala                                 .....          18         22            21          ?6          ?6          25           25       _ 25           21          22          ?0           19
Value of Production at rob Prices-                         6,080       8,280      10,100       11,100      12,100      12,100      11,600      11,600      i1,600      11,100      10,2B0        9,280       8,780
L,sw  Export duty at 7½1X of Fob value                     1,60        S20         760         830          91O         910         870         670         870         830         770         700          660
Lews  Markotl.g, port handling .wd
tranaport to port at M$29.60
per tow of oil & kernel.                            380         530         650         710         770         770         7'10        740         740          710         650         590          560
tLo..   Hli pro..sa ng *1r trnsport
to mill per ton oF yrbi/                            1         209  2, 910             3,290   0     30 I                  3,300      L323(3       iA6     0 o              2,990650 2          ,
S.les lovenu. to 3.ttlr                                    3,070       4,220        5,630       6,330       7,090       1,020       6,690       6,760       6,830       6,5oo        5,870       5,340       5,180
.       oaa   iettler's raowrrnt  xp.nnaese
Fertilizera, spr,ay  & miscellaneous                890         890         890 y        90         890         890 820                 890          890         890         890         890          890
Consolidat.d annual charge by
State government                  _10                           110         111          .0                     1140        1,0        -11,0         1l,0        140       1_10          140         11,0
Settle' a net Cash Incom.,
before loan, repayonts                                    2,01,       3,190       4,600        5,300       6,060       5,990       5,660       5,730       5,80()      5,470        4,840       4,310       4,150
tess,  Loan repayments                                    090         80       2.180       2,180       2,180       2      1    2180        2,180  2       180  2'o   10         I              -          -_
Settler-s Net Cash lreoso,                                    950       1,010      2,420        3,120       3,880       3,810       3,480       3,550       3,620       3,290        3,750       4,310       4,150
after loas, repy-a,,ts
Mr, Days Worbed by Settler                                    185         21)         210          210        210         210         255         255          255         255         255         255          255
1/  hnts bwigat a..o.e.  that the lend weas el ered in 1969.  A sinor vawiatioen In value, do to ceexasd declining prices until 1975 would rasilt in  ligijtly differe-t returns to settlers an land
Cleared aarll&r or later.
2/  orIies  loaad,  ler S, 011 HS510 per tan, tresmlo M$325 per toq,  lear 6 onverda, Oil K*500 per ton, Kernal. KIM0 par ton.
H a4111 procesasng elarge H$30 per ton rib thronghootj Transport to Mill per tns of Frb - Year 5, M*5°l1 Tsar 6, M$4.25i lear 7 r,uardn, M414.00.



t A L A Y S I A
Estimated YieldL Benefits arid Costs
(Expressed in thousandflX
Years E,sding September 30
1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    197I          1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1930    1981    1982    19914
Yields (thousand tons)
Ffb                                                                                2       18       55     111,     180      226      252      263      270      271      268      261      255      194
Otl                                                                                         2        B       18      30       o0       N8       53       56       57       56       55       Si,      41
Kernels                                                                         1______              2       5    _3          11       12       13       lb       14       13       13       13       10
Benefits
Valiue of Producttont To ;l'DA/Settlers                                          150   l,1,80   4,760  10,190  16,570  21,740  25,71,0  28,280  29,890  30,370  30,i)00  29,240  28,5140  21,700
To Fedeiral Goverrunent                                   10      120     390      820   1,3h,O   1,760   2,000   2,300   2,420   2,1160   2,430   2,370   2,320   1,760
(Export duty at 7' )
Fob value Port Sauttenhain                                                       160   1,600   5,150  11,010  17,910  23,500  27,820  30,580  32,310  32,830  32,430  31,610  30,860  23,460
Cosita
Caipital Coasts
1/
P'IDA and Oovernmen,t Expenditures per Annex 6  1,51,0    B,970  13,610  15,890  11,220   9,810   5,l.60   3,520
Capital RenoeUls                                                                                                            110      110    110        110      110    110        110      110      110
Revenue Costa
Marketing, Port RanditiRn, and Transport
frnm Mill to Port                                                             10     100      310      680   1,130   1,510   1,730  1,950        2,060   2,090  2,060    2,010   1,960   1,1490
Mill Procerssing and Transport to Mill                                          30      290     130   1,720   2,1,30   2,770   2,770  2,900    2,970   2,980  2,950    2,870   2,810   2,130
Management 2/                                                                                    280     550   1,h30   1,870   1,870  1,870    1,870   1,870  1,870    1,870   1,870   1,8170
Fauqm Recurrent Expenses                                                                         350     91,0   1,690   2,350   2,350  2,350    2,350   2,350  2,350    2,350   2,350   2,350
Settlers' Labor 3/                                                                              370   1,000   1,790   2,4,90   2,190  2,490    2,1,90   2,490  2,1,90    2,1,90   2,090   2,1490
Consolidated Annual Charge Payable to
State Oovernmelit t/_                                                                          60      160      290  1_00         1 00    1,00      1,00     1,00    1,00      400   _00         1,00
TOTAL NET BENEFi'TS (COSTS)                          (1,540)  (8,970)(13,610)(15,'170)(10,010) (6,300)    260   5,y20  12,4fX) 16,1,50 18,910   20,460  20,940 20,600   19,910  19,270  13,020
1/   Aionex 6 includes costs of the Research and Training Cetiter, Tnterest and Social Infrastrukcture but they are excluded I,ere                                The discounted rate of return to
for the ptirpose of the economic evaluation.                                                                                                              the economy on the baats of the
2/   Includes only manage,,,e,t attribkitahle to the period after develolpment )f each sciheme.                                                                   above stream of total net benefits
/   Sh,own at an artitary value to take accourit of possible  alternative use of settlers in the economy after the end of tlie                                    and costa would be 16 percent.
development peri(od ot each scileme.
II/   Memorandum only.  Not deducted for economic evaluatiin as this ia a State reventue.



MAP 1
WEST MAYLASIA                      '
JENGKA  TRIANGLE  PROGRAM
LOCATION AND CROPPING
JERANTUT        (
THE JENGKA TRIANGLE  KUANTA
F.L.D.A. SUNGAI TEKAM                '       TAXA8
RUBBEP 3,300           PORT      A UHU
OIL PAM *  20SWETTE                                         KUALALUUR
SUBSEQUENT PROJECTS.
OIL PALM 43,200 ARS,%,...............,gz, > 
RUBBER   22, 00 ACRES-:-.--'
RUBBERX                                                  WEST MALASA
AW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
....A....;.:.                       FIRST PHASE PROJECT
2770COIL PALM             S       GACRES
4                                  F.L.D.A. ULU JEMPOL
RU8BER        ACRES~~~~~~~ARE
-  /~~X   w
IN
3N YE EF TH PMA RAN
RUBBER 3,800
ACRES
a.FOREST            DAA
OIL PALM         ~SUNGAI NEREK
RUBBER           ~~RUBBER 5,600
..TOWNS
..BOUNDARY BETWEEN FIRST PHASE PROJECT
(EAST) (detail on map 2) AND SUBSEQUENT
PROJECTS (WEST)
0    1    2    3    4
FIGURES NET ACREAGE PLANTED                             MILES
NOVEMBE.R 1967                                                        IBRD-20S5R



MAP Z
WEST MALAYSIA
JENGKA TRIANGLE PROJECT
EASTERN SECTION OF PROGISAM
PHASING OF DEVELOPMENT
P-iHASING OF CLEARING, DATES AS SHOWN
*OILEPALM MLLS~,UC
ULU JEM.POL        O{                              DATES OF  -NSTRUCTION SHOWN
5'y                                          -q~~~~~~~~~~~OJEOT :PRIMARYUROACS,
ULU JEMPOLDATES RO                          CONSTR C. ION SHOWN
IST. MLU dEMPL ¢\                            PROJECT SECONDARY  ROADS,
\_   1966-74  01                             DATES OF  CONSTRUCTION SHOWN
-ALES OF CONSTRUCTION SHOWN
/    FOREST
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
X D~~~~CTOBER\
'C H E M E-/tig                            tO}                  3~~~~~~~~~~UKiT TAJAU_
S              2       3      4       S  MILES
FEBRUARY 1363                                                                                                          IBRD - 2SRI



