                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 25157

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-36870)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 71.2 MILLION
                                 (US$90 Million Equivalent)

                                        TO THE

                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                        FOR A

                      STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR THE

                  GOVERNMENT OF NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE




                                      June 19, 2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region

                                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                                  (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                                  Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKRs)
                                                              1 = US$ Pa.
                                                         US$ 1 = 57.70

                                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                                      July 1-  June 30

                                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AsDB    Asian Development Bank                                    LHW       Lady Health Worker
AG      Accountant General (Provincial)                           MDG       Millennium Development Goals
AIT     Agriculture Income Tax                                    M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
AWB     Area Water Boards                                         MICS      Multi-Indicator Cluster Survey
BHU     Basic Health Units                                        MOP       Memorandum of President
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                               MTBF      Medium-Term Budget Framework
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment               NEAS      National Education Assessment System
CGA     Comptroller General of Accounts (Federal)                 NGOs      Non-Government Organizations
CIP     Community Infrastructure and Services Project             NRB       National Reconstruction Bureau
DAO     District Accounts Office                                  NWFP      North West Frontier Province
DFID    United Kingdom Department for International Development   O&M       Operation & Maintenance
EMIS    Education Management Information System                   PAC       Public Accounts Committee
EPI     Expanded Program of Immunization                          PAD       Pakistan Audit Department
ESR     Education Sector Reform                                   PFAA      Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment
FMC     Fiscal Monitoring Committee                               PFC       Provincial Finance Commission
GAVI    Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization             PIFRA     Improvement to Financial Reporting & Auditing Project
GoNWFP  Government of the North West Frontier Province            PD        Program Document
GoP     Government of Pakistan                                    PIHS      Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
GST     General Sales Tax                                         PRGF      Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
HMIS    Health Management Information System                      PRP       Provincial Reform Program
HR      Human Resource                                            PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IDA     International Development Association                     PSC       Public Service Commission
IMF     International Monetary Fund                               PTAs      Parents-Teachers Associations
I-PRSP  Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper                  SAP       Social Action Program
KPP     Khushal Pakistan Program                                  SBP       State Bank of Pakistan
LGO     Local Government Ordinances                               WAPDA     Water and Power Development Authority




                                                Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu, SARVP
                                             Country Director:    John W. Wall, SACPK
                                               Sector Director:   Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
                                              Sector Manager:      Ijaz Nabi, SASPR
                                               Task Managers:     Paul Wade & Zareen Naqvi, SASPR

                                          PAKISTAN
                             NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P077834                                                      Project Name: NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit
Team Leader: Paul Wade                                                   TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 20, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-36870
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Sub-national government administration (60%); General education
                            sector (20%); Health (10%); Law and justice (5%); Roads and
                            highways (5%)
                  Theme: Other economic management (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Administrative and civil service
                            reform (P); Health system performance (P); Education for all (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    04/09/2002                                        Effective:                         07/12/2002
   Appraisal:    04/23/2002                                            MTR:
    Approval:    07/09/2002                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; GOVERNMENT
                                           OF PAKISTAN/GOVERNMENT OF NWFP
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Mieko Nishimizu                                     Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          John W. Wall                                        John W. Wall
Sector Manager:            Ijaz Nabi
Team Leader at ICR:        Paul Wade and Zareen Naqvi                          Abid Hasan and Mark Sundberg
ICR Primary Author(s): Richard J. Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

National context. Per capita economic growth fell to an average of 1.2 percent in Pakistan in the 1990s
after averaging 3.0 percent in the 1980s. There has also been little reduction of poverty in the past decade.
Social indicators' improvement did not match that of overall economic growth.             Compared to other
countries at a similar stage of development, Pakistan lagged far behind in child mortality, female literacy,
primary enrollment and other social indicators. In the 1990s, there was a large accumulation of public debt
as annual fiscal deficits averaged 6 percent of GDP. At the end of the 1990s, Pakistan faced a financial
crisis, domestic tensions, and an unsustainable level of debt with interest payments consuming half of total
tax revenue.

A military government came into power in October 1999, and designed a reform program to modernize
Pakistan and its institutions.    This government learned lessons from the unsuccessful Social Action
Program launched in the 1990s. The main lesson that emerged was that if the social gap were to be closed,
Pakistan would have to improve economic management and governance at the sub-national government
level in order to deliver basic social services effectively.

Provincial context. The North West Frontier Province is one of four provinces in Pakistan and one of the
poorer ones. Per capita income is 30 percent below the national average of $429, or about $300. Nearly
half of the rural and 31 percent of the urban population live below the poverty line. Social indicators
improved only modestly in the 1990s. The exception was infant mortality, which was halved. The social
and economic position of women remains weak. Female enrollment in school is only 54 percent (84 percent
for males) and female literacy is 15 percent. The resource base with which to fund government has been
low. There was low value added in agriculture (which accounts for one-third of provincial income),
remittances, until recently, had stagnated, and there is general underdevelopment. The province's fiscal
position deteriorated in the 1990s, mainly due to a weak revenue base. Provincial financial management
deteriorated with a general breakdown of internal controls.

Bank support. The Bank support for the NWFP reform program follows a programmatic approach. The
NWFP SAC was the first phase of a planned three-phase adjustment lending program, and provided US$90
million (equivalent) in budget support to the NWFP. This ICR assesses the accomplishments of the
SAC-supported first phase through the completion of Board conditions, and reviews continued reform
implementation up through the May 2003 review/ICR mission.

Objective

The NWFP SAC supported the Province's economic and social reform program (PRP 2001-2004), which
has four pillars: (i) strengthening provincial governance through the reform of the civil service to strengthen
the accountability, integrity and professionalism of provincial government institutions; (ii) strengthening
public health and education service delivery systems and the devolution of responsibilities to expand access
to these services, with a focus on primary service delivery; (iii) fiscal and financial management reforms to
increase provincial revenues, and reprioritize expenditures, strengthen procurement and improve budget
preparation, execution, and oversight; and (iv) deregulation and business facilitation to enhance prospects
for growth and poverty alleviation. The credit aimed at allowing the province to incur larger budgetary
expenditures for the province's reform program, especially the costs of fiscal restructuring and service
delivery improvements.



                                                       - 2 -

This support was consistent with the program expressed in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (IPRSP)
that was discussed by the World Bank and IMF Boards in December 2001, particularly with respect to its
focus on restoring good governance and the respect for the rule of law, enhancing the effectiveness of
public expenditures and reestablishing the integrity of government institutions.     In this regard, the
objectives of the NWFP SAC were responsive to the province's priority development problems. The
NWFP qualified for a provincial SAC based on its commitment to carry out necessary reforms
demonstrated by its launch of the PRP. This focus on client pull and the NWFP SAC's fit with other
features of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Pakistan is discussed below.

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions.

3.3 Original Components:

The components of the NWFP SAC were consistent with the main goal of the Bank Group's Assistance
Strategy for FY2003-2005 which is to support the Government reform program for a transition to a
modern Islamic state through a program of analytical services, institutional capacity building, and
demand-pull lending. The components address the priority development constraints in the province. These
components and their sub-components were:

1.   Strengthening Accountability and Professionalism of Government Institutions
     1.1 Devolution
     1.2 Restructuring and down-sizing
     1.3 Promoting merit and professionalism and improving human resource management
     1.4 Judicial reforms

2.   Accelerating Human Development
     2.1. Education
     2.2. Health

3.   Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability
     3.1. Fiscal sustainability
     3.2. Tax and user charges reform
     3.3. Expenditure reforms
     3.4. Process reforms
     3.5. Fiscal devolution
     3.6. Public financial management and accountability
     3.7. Procurement, transparency and public access to budget documents
     3.8. Autonomous bodies/public enterprises

4.   Promoting Sustainable Growth-Private Sector Development

5.   Monitoring Poverty, Social Service Delivery and Reform Implementation
     5.1 Monitoring
     5.2 Reform implementation

The design was broad, but the core conditions were relatively few and each component addressed a priority



                                                  - 3 -

reform area with the overall aim of restoring integrity to state institutions and improving the effectiveness
of public expenditures. Financial management and fiscal sustainability were essential to easing the public
debt burden, addressing poverty and in ensuring that the budget reflected the reform program's priorities.
The program appropriately included a component to enhance economic growth, without which human and
income poverty cannot be reduced. In this regard, core conditions included improvements to the regulatory
environment, although the private sector development component (PSD-no. 4.) was generally weak, as
discussed below. The approach of the NWFP SAC embodies the CAS's three strategic engagement
principles: 1. Strong client pull to reform and selectivity; 2. A programmatic approach focused on transfer
of knowledge and capacity building first, and resources second, in a flexible pursuit of key development
outcomes; and 3. Partnerships and outreach.

The NWFP SAC programmatic approach, involves a sequence of similar credits (three are anticipated) and
is consistent with the process of long-term reform laid out in the IPRSP. The programmatic approach
offers the flexibility to adapt the program to changing circumstances, as well as the multi-year commitment
of a reasonable level of budgetary support in order for fiscal and governance reforms to yield results. The
triggers for the Bank's future assistance strategy are based on measurable outcomes derived from the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in the social sectors.

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

ICR ­ Satisfactory. The NWFP SAC objectives were fully consistent with the CAS. The program
document (PD) specified entry and exit triggers that were relevant and reasonable. Entry triggers required
that the provincial government be in the process of reform with committed reform champions in key
positions, and that the province had already initiated fiscal management, civil service and health and
education reforms. Exit triggers included reversal of reforms, resumption of substantial Ways and Means
borrowing, and expansion of public sector contingent liabilities. The selection of the NWFP as a recipient
for a SAC was appropriate given the Provincial Government's demonstrated commitment to critical
reforms. As a single tranche operation, NWFP SAC conditions were completed prior to disbursement.
Section 4 reviews these achievements. Though the NWFP SAC design was broad, there were a limited
number of conditions which helped ensure timely implementation despite NWFP's limited implementation
capacity.   The growth promotion/PSD component was however too narrow.                There was insufficient
economic and sector work (ESW) to support a more meaningful component, that would have included, e.g.,
measures to promote rural growth. The single tranche was complemented with a follow-on reform program
including triggers for a possible NWFP SAC2.

The Program Document cited three types of risk: continuity of the reform program, implementation
capacity, and exogenous shocks owing to Pakistan's location in a turbulent area of the world. Continuity,
or political risk, was cited as the most immediate risk because the elections (in October 2002) would mean
that most ministers would be replaced. The risk associated with these political changes was identified, but,
to some extent, was underestimated, as the elections brought about a greater political shift than expected.
For example, the Bank underestimated the difficulties in trying to achieve civil service reform following a
change in government, wherein the new government would have a tendency to consolidate its power in the
bureaucracy. The choice to proceed with the NWFP SAC before elections appears appropriate in the final
analysis because of the reform progress to date, even though uncertainties persist about the future of the
reform program.



                                                     - 4 -

The risk of inadequate implementation capacity was most serious as it related to devolution. This risk was
addressed by a bilateral and multilateral donor supported comprehensive capacity building program, which
has been under implementation. Still, this implementation capacity risk was somewhat underestimated
because capacity has proven to be as much a matter of coordination and clear guidance as it is of the level
of skills at the district level. Training, however extensive, is a necessary, but not sufficient input to
successful devolution. The speed of devolution has outstripped the Provincial Government's ability to
guide and coordinate. These issues are being sorted out, but it will take several years and will mute the
poverty reduction benefits from the increased spending in the social sectors. Another area where the Bank
underestimated risk was in assuming the smooth transfer of power from the province to the districts. After
the elections, conflicts arose between the provincial and district governments over areas of authority, which
still persist.

The NWFP-supported reform program's "homegrown" nature and the widespread consensus from
stakeholders was expected to mitigate this political risk. On the "homegrown" nature of the program, it is
true that reform intentions and much of the selection of reform areas originated in NWFP, as there was a
core group of reform champions. However, it was also reported that much of the detail of the program
required substantial donor input, with modest underlying sector work prepared by NWFP stakeholders.

On the social side, the PD asserted that civil society would support the continuation of improved service
delivery, resolving fiscal issues, expanding girls' education and improving governance and would hold any
new government to these goals (section 4. reviews the progress in these areas). In addition, the devolution
process would be difficult to reverse regardless of election outcome and over time becomes increasingly
irreversible. Clear triggers were established for follow-on operations. Though the triggers identified at
appraisal were fairly mild from a reform point of view, they have evolved into a stronger follow-on
program which is necessary for continued Bank support.            The risk of exogenous shocks was rated
particularly high in NWFP. The mitigation was expected to come from strengthening local institutions,
improved social indicators, improved business environment and tangible benefits ("quick wins"). This
mitigation plan might be effective in the long run, but the program document was perhaps optimistic that
shocks from a spill over from Afghanistan or Iraq could be limited by any design feature of the reform
program. There are limits to how much program design can mitigate against swings in political moods or
exogenous shocks.

QAG ­ Not Applicable


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

This assessment concentrates on the specific reforms supported by the NWFP SAC, but, because the
approach is programmatic, the ICR also reviews the progress of the follow-on program leading up to a
planned NWFP SAC2. The achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory for the core program leading
up to tranche release. However, the follow-on program, while successful in some areas, has not met the
expectations built into the program (indicative triggers) approved by the Bank Board. The NWFP SAC
effectively supported the government reform program and made significant progress through its five major
components, with particular emphasis on social sector and governance reforms. However, in the follow-on
program only limited progress was made in civil service reform, own revenue collection, monitoring and
evaluation, and developing a broadbased poverty reduction strategy with the private sector as the engine of



                                                     - 5 -

growth. There has been no backtracking of the reforms (though there are potential issues on several revenue
items and the Bank of Khyber). The outcomes are presented under their corresponding project development
objectives (PDOs).     Table 1 presents the recent fiscal performance of the GoNWFP and Table 2
summarizes the broad outcomes from the NWFP supported program. Annex Table 1 provides details of
outcomes. A review of the outputs from the follow-on program is presented in section 4.2.

                                 Table 1: Summary of NWFP Fiscal Accounts
                                                           (Rs. In Million)

                                                                          1998/99 1999/00 2000/01 2001/02              2002/03
                                                                           Actual Actual        Actual         June    Proj. 1/
                                                                                                               Final
                Total Revenues and Grants                                   27,245 30,370       32,302        36,454    37,582
                  Federal Tax Assignment                                    14,422 16,392       18,440        19,014    22,568
                  Provincial Own Revenues 2/                                9,023    9,102       9,290         9,517     9,820
                    Provincially Collected Revenues                         3,023    3,146       3,027         3,197     3,247
                       Tax Revenues                                          969     1,286       1,250         1,554     1,575
                       Non-Tax Revenues                                     2,054    1,860       1,777         1,643     1,672
                   Hydel Profits from WAPDA                                 6,000    5,956       6,044         6,000     6,000
                   GST on Services                                            0         0          218          256      413
                   Royalty on Oil and Natural Gas                             0         0           0            64      160
                  Federal & Foreign grants                                  3,801    4,877       4,572         7,924     5,194
                    of which KPP grants                                         -           -      657         2541        0
                                 Subventions                                3,801    3,882       3,828         3,915     3,898
                                 Others                                         -     989          739         1,451     1,296

                Total Expenditures                                          29,384 34,496       33,452        39,068    43,939
                Current Expenditures                                        25,792 30,551       29,998        31,496    35,219
                  Wages                                                     10,575 12,220       12,985         14,573   16,791
                  Pension                                                   1,871    2,054       2,485         2,805     3,200
                  Non-Wage Operation and                                    4,265    5,278       5,412         4,621     6,434
                Maintenance 3/
                  Interest Payments                                         6,282    7,621       6,878         8,225     7,794
                  Subsidies (Food)                                          2,750    3,250       1,950         1,228     1,000
                Grants to LG and Investments                                  48      129          287           43        0

                Development Expenditures                                    3,592    3,945       3,454         7,572     8,720
                Annual Development Program                                      -    2,178       3,454         1,684     2,960
                Foreign Project Assistance                                           1,178              -       2,121    2,952
                Federal Projects Incl. ESR                                    0       589               -           -    983
                Civil Works from KPP Grants                                     -           -      1,147       3,767     1826


                Fiscal Balance                                              -2,139  -4,126       -1,151        -2,613   -6,589
               Source: Finance Department, GoNWFP and NWFP AG Office.

                Note: The sign "-" indicates that the data is not available. FY03 Proj. are Bank staff projections.
               1/ Projections from May 2003 review mission.
               2/ Provincial own revenues include provincially collected tax and non-tax revenues as well as Net Hydel Profits, General Sales
               Tax (GST) on Services and Royalties on oil and gas.
               3/ The Non-wage O&M is calculated residually from current expenditures.




                                                                  - 6 -

1. Strengthening provincial governance through the reform of the civil service to strengthen the
accountability, integrity and professionalism of state institutions (Satisfactory)

It is early to gauge a long term process such as improved professionalism and governance in state
institutions. Certainly, some of the ground work toward that end has been laid. It can be said that NWFP
moved toward the objective of a decentralized administration with greater administrative autonomy at the
district level. Rationalization of staffing has also taken place in a number of agencies and departments.
With the increased independence of Provincial Public Service Commission (PSC) -- and assuming that the
new Government will maintain the PSC's autonomy for recruitment for grades 11 and above -- it is
expected that recruitment and promotion will become more merit-based, and that the opportunity for
corruption and misconduct will diminish. However, the ongoing practice of frequent transfers not only of
Secretaries but also of lower level staff -- some of which appear to be subject to interventions at the
political level -- continues to undermine progress towards a more merit-based civil service. Donors have
supported an extensive training program including support under the Essential Institutional Reform
Operationalization Project (EIROP). The impact of this training will increase as the new division of
responsibility between the Districts and other levels of government is better understood by the implementing
agencies. The eventual establishment of a civil service data base would help eliminate potential "ghost"
workers from payrolls and yield a more accurate estimate of the pension liability of government workers.
Lengthened tenures of civil service will promote better management of institutions and greater
accountability of upper level staff.

Making the judiciary independent of the executive branch is expected to improve judicial performance and
impartiality in the long run. However, there have been some significant adjustment pains. With the
abolition of the role of the Magistrate, the key access point of the "common man" to adjudicated
settlements was lost. Previously, Magistrates would dispense executive justice on minor civil cases, family
issues, etc. Currently, courts are not equipped to handle the volume of these types of cases. Until family
courts and minor civil courts can be established, average citizens and the poor may find it nearly impossible
to resolve disputes. Magistrates also acted, historically, as a check on the power of the local police. It was
reported that there is public dissatisfaction with growing police corruption. The follow-on program has
recognized this and calls for the establishment of specialized (e.g., family, small claims) courts to settle
disputes.

Admittedly, there are no clear monitoring indicators for the outcomes in this component, which makes
outcome assessment, beyond noting that the supporting measures have been carried out, impossible. As
part of the continued dialog, a set of outcome indicators should be agreed and tracked as the part of the
ongoing reform program.




                                                     - 7 -

                                       TABLE 2: Monitoring Indicators

            INDICATOR                      BEFORE NWFP SAC              CURRENT              PLANNED (2005)
Provincial GDP growth rate                          4%                       4%                   4-5%
Poverty Head Count (caloric)                        44                       n.a.                 38%
Provincial Tax Revenue Growth                      15%            1.4% (projected FY03 over       10%
target                                                               June final FY02) 1/
Pro-poor I-PRSP expenditures                       29%                       n.a.                 35%
(% of exp.)
Development expenditures                           26%               27% (FY03 Budget)            31%
Maintain timely comprehensive and                   0%                       n.a.                 100%
reconciled fiscal data using the New
Accounting Model (NAM)
Gross Primary enrollment rate              70% (PIHS 1998/99)         72% (Sept.2002)             85%
Gross primary enrollment rate              54% (PIHS 1998/99)         56% (Sept.2002)             84%
female
Reduction in primary school                  45% (EMIS 2002)          43% (Sept.2002)             35%
dropout rates
Girls school provided essential              50% (EMIS 2002)                 n.a.            100% by end FY03
physical facilities
Full immunization % of children less       54% (PIHS 1998/99)       57% (PIHS 2001/02)            80%
than 2 years
% of population with access to TB          20% (Dept. of Health,  48 % (Estimates from the        100%
Control using DOTS                              GoNWFP)             Provincial TB Control
                                                                          Program)
Antenatal coverage of pregnant                   34% 2/                      n.a.                 45%
women by health professionals
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                    21% 2/                      n.a.                 35%
Population with access to safe             58% (PIHS 1998/99)       58% (PIHS 2001/02)            65%
drinking water
Proportion of roads classified in poor             80%                       n.a.                 50%
condition
Source: GoNWFP, World Bank mission estimates.
1/ Based on projections from May 2003 review mission.
2/ Pakistan Reproductive Health and Family Planning Survey 2001



2. Strengthening public health and education delivery systems and the devolution of responsibilities
to expand access to these services, with a focus on primary service delivery (Satisfactory)

In education (satisfactory), the gains have been small in enrollment rates, but there is also a rapidly
increasing number of children eligible for school. In K-5 grades, the number of students enrolled increased
by 115,000 (about 6 percent) in 2002/03 compared with 2001/02. The gross enrollment rate increased
modestly from 70 to 72 percent against the 2005 target of 85 percent. Female primary enrollment has also
increased from 54 to 56 percent, far below the 2005 target female enrollment of 84 percent. The dropout
rate has fallen from 45 to 43 percent compared to the target of 35 percent for 2005. These measured
improvements (measured up to September 2002) pre-date the effects of the teacher redeployment and
recruitments and the upgrading of girls' schools. So continued enrollment increases are expected as a
result of these measures and others supported by the large increase in public financing in the sector.
Nevertheless, at present rates of increase the targets will not likely be reached unless the GoNWFP
launches special enrollment campaigns. The slow progress toward targets may also partially be the case of



                                                         - 8 -

the outcome response lagging behind the outputs by an additional year or two, which the next data survey
would reflect.

In health (satisfactory), the 2001/02 Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (the most recent source of data
for the health sector) indicates health improvements with decreasing infant mortality, increasing
immunization coverage and contraceptive use, although the improvements are very gradual. Data for
2002/03 are not yet available.        Infant mortality has declined by about 3 percentage points and
immunization coverage of children aged 12-23 months has increased by about 3 percentage points (54 to 57
percent) against a 2005 target of 80 percent. The slow improvement in indicators reflects the equally slow
improvements in health care delivery system, and there is concern that they are not on track to meet the
health improvement targets for 2005. The SAC-supported measures to improve district health care so that
district health facilities can treat more non-serious or non-urgent cases have resulted in seven district
hospitals being upgraded to A level where there is a capability in 24 medical specialties. A plan to finance
the upgrading of district hospitals through a Hospital Fund (HF) in which doctors contribute 30 percent of
the proceeds from their private practice activities was rolled back. It did not appear that this requirement
was effectively enforced. In any case, doctors wanted the requirement rescinded and the new government
obliged. This has created additional uncertainty in funding the upgrade of district hospitals.

The percent of the population with access to TB control using daily observation therapy (DOTS) has
increased from 20 to 48 percent compared with the goal of 100 percent by 2005. Population with access to
safe drinking water was unchanged at 58 percent at the latest estimate, compared with a target of 65
percent by 2005. Progress must be made in this area in the immediate term. There are no updated data for
improvements in pre-natal coverage, or contraceptive use.

3.   Fiscal and financial management reforms to increase provincial revenues, and reprioritize
expenditures, strengthen procurement and improve budget preparation, execution, and oversight
(Marginally satisfactory)

As mentioned earlier, the assessment below reflects verified information received through the May 2003
review/ICR mission. Additional information was received subsequent to the May mission but could not be
verified in time for the ICR deadline.

While it is early to assess the response to/outcome of fiscal reforms, the response thus far has been mild
(Table 1). Little progress has been made in provincial revenue collection. Provincial Own Revenues
increased about 3 percent in 2001/02 and 2.5 percent in 2002/03 (first three quarters), which is well below
the budget target of over 20 percent. Fiscal deficits initially fell, but then sharply increased. The fiscal
deficit increased from Rs.-1.2 billion in 2000/01 to Rs.-2.6 billion in 2001/02, then jumped to Rs.-6.6
billion (projected) in 2002/03, reflecting shortfalls in own provincial revenue collection and increased
spending in high priority areas such as health and education, though the expected outcomes in the social
sectors have not yet been observed. Some additional fiscal space was created through early retirement of
the most expensive debt. However, the current substantially higher spending, in particular social and
development spending, without the necessary increase in own revenue generation, will be sustained after the
last SAC credit only if the provincial government receives a generous (multibillion rupee) annual increase
in the next NFC award; something which is still uncertain.           In procurement, though no efficiency
improvements have been measured, it is a reasonable expectation that the substantial measures taken will
lead to significant cost savings in the future.




                                                    - 9 -

4. Deregulation and business facilitation to enhance prospects for growth and poverty alleviation
(Marginally unsatisfactory)

Given the weak impact of this component on private sector development and poverty alleviation it is rated
marginally unsatisfactory. Though there were a number of achievements under this objective, the measures
were too narrow and had too little development impact. Following the establishment of the Deregulation
Committee (a core condition), the Committee's recommendations led to a streamlining of industrial
inspections by the various government departments. There were 23 inspections, which the government
reduced to 13. Furthermore, under the Boiler Ordinance 2002, only private insurance companies will be
involved in inspections, further reducing the role of government. A new integrated Directorate for Mineral
Development has been created. In principle, the public sector will not be involved in exploration projects
but will limit itself to undertaking survey work, preparation of technical reports, licensing and inspection.
To make the new Directorate effective, issues of institutional capacity building need to be addressed
especially in terms of adequate staffing, training of staff and acquiring equipment. There is considerable
additional work to carry out. CBR officials continue to harass businesses with frequent visits in sales tax
and income tax audits. Officials indicated that since the remaining inspections, as well as CBR issues were
a Federal subject, the province has little jurisdiction in dealing with these issues and they should be
addressed at the Federal level.

These measures did not have much of an effect on the NWFP population. It would have strengthened the
program, for example to have included rural development measures with the ultimate objective of a
sustained reduction in rural poverty. In general, a clear, shared vision and government strategy that would
enable NWFP to achieve faster and sustainable economic growth and poverty reduction where the private
sector is the engine of growth is lacking. The program would benefit from a province-specific business
investment climate survey.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The assessment of outputs concentrates on the core conditions of the SAC-supported program, which was
satisfactory overall, but also rates the progress of the follow-on program, which was marginally
unsatisfactory. The lower rating for the follow-on program reflects shortfalls in implementation and
resulting delay in approving a planned SAC2.

Strengthening Accountability and Professionalism of State Institutions

Achievement of the Board conditions of the NWFP SAC satisfactory. To support devolution and
improve government efficiency, the Government restructured 15 departments and abolished 11 attached
departments and eliminated more than 6,000 positions. The ban on new recruitment is continuing with little
new hiring below grade 11, and only under special circumstances approved by the Finance and
Establishment Departments. Exceptions are permitted to hire teachers and doctors, consistent with the
NWFP SAC. GoNWFP also established Surplus Pool and Facility Specific contract policies. Around
6,500 staff were placed in the Surplus Pool for transfer to other departments, and the number has dropped
to 1,400, indicating progress in resolving the issue of surplus staff. None of these staff have been made
involuntarily redundant in keeping with the purpose of the pool.

The SAC-supported program also supported the authority and independence of the NWFP Public Service
Commission (PSC) to recruit officers. As part of the effort to restore professionalism, the PSC was to
carry out recruitments within a four-month period. No action has been taken to reduce the recruitment time



                                                    - 10 -

through the PSC, and there are no monitorable data. It is essential that the PSC perform professionally so
as not to invite bypassing by government agencies on efficiency grounds. A capacity building program was
approved that is building the necessary skills to make devolution successful and improve government
efficiency.   This capacity building has progressed under EIROP and other initiatives, and a needs
assessment for further training, etc., has also been carried out. Implemented judicial reforms include its
separation from the executive branch of government and allocation of the resources needed to provide
judicial services, namely, adequate budget and autonomy of recruitment (see Outcomes section 4.1 above
for explanation of complications of this reform). The NWFP SAC-supported program included improved
monitoring which included a Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) in FY2001/02. While the MICS
has been completed, overall the monitoring function has not progressed as far as hoped. In particular,
monitoring systems for health and education, as well as consolidated (province and district) fiscal spending,
are not as developed as called for in the follow-on program.

An important measure for the follow-on program is to increase the average tenure in post of senior civil
servants. Secretaries' average tenure in post is less than 7 months. Implementing reforms, as well as
refining the reform strategy, require Secretaries with knowledge and vision, and the time to carry it out.
The flexibility provided by the greater use of contract staff will place a greater responsibility on managers
to plan and use their human resources effectively. These challenges will prove extremely difficult for
Secretaries whose average tenure in post is this short. No action has been taken on this issue, except that a
monitoring exercise is underway to measure whether this tenure is lengthening. Results are expected by
September 2003.      It is difficult to have meaningful results before then because of the turnover in
Secretaries resulting from the change in Government in November 2002.

A comprehensive HR database is another priority for the continuing program because the present
paper-based system is inaccurate, does not capture the actual numbers of provincial and district employees,
and does not allow for an accurate estimate of pension liability. Little progress has been made in this area
and implementation is more than one year behind schedule. This data base could be built by: (i) completing
the computerization of all district and departmental payrolls; (ii) linking databases to provide central HR
database to Finance; (iii) verifying against a civil service census; and (iv) using the database to assess
government pension liabilities. After the database has been constructed, it will be possible to undertake
some detailed actuarial work to calculate the pension liability. Inter-agency disputes between Department
of Finance and the Establishment Division have delayed action. Notwithstanding this, TORs have been
issued for the database software development, a short list of contractors has been selected and requests for
detailed proposals have been issued.        The implementation of this exercise has been drawn out by
contracting separately the software development and the manuals and training, rather than as one contract.



Accelerating Human Development

Education (Achievement of Board conditions satisfactory). The SAC-supported core measures that
were implemented included approval of the staff rationalization program, and provision of water and
sanitation facilities to all girls' schools. Education allocations were increased substantially under the
Medium Term Budget Framework. For FY2003, the education budget increased nearly 25 percent. An
education reform unit was established and a program to recruit 2,000 primary teachers was approved.
Thus far, nearly 2,400 teachers have been recruited, which is the number required under the teacher
redeployment plan to meet the student teacher ratios. Before the program, the average teacher-student ratio
was 33:1 and the target was actually to increase the ratio to 40:1. This target was revised downward to
30:1, which necessitated the additional recruitments. To realize the 30:1 target an additional 12,200
teachers will have to be recruited.    The fact that there is no adequate monitoring capability in place to


                                                    - 11 -

track teacher absenteeism is a serious issue for the follow-on program. The provision of sanitary and other
facilities for girls' schools has only recently gotten underway. The SAC coordinator estimates that this
activity will nevertheless be completed by the end of the fiscal year.

The Government is generally on-track, however, in its follow-on, medium-term plan for the education
sector. The plan includes: (i) increase budget allocations by over 75 percent from PR8.5 billion in FY02 to
PR14.7 billion by FY05, including increasing instructional materials and minor repair allocations by
tenfold; (ii) complete management reforms to implement the process of district-based management,
separation of teaching and management staff, and training of staff; (iii) complete the teacher redeployment,
and facility rationalization based on the approved staff and facility rationalization plan; (iv) expand school
capacity in partnership with the private sector and communities and continue the strengthening of PTAs;
(v) provide essential physical facilities in all primary schools, especially for girls, and continue the policy of
larger allocation of development funds for girls' schools; (vi) deployment of teachers in home districts and
location-based new recruitment, and in-service teacher training; (vii) consolidate performance-based
teacher evaluation and compensation, and the province-wide student assessment system; (viii) continue
textbook de-regulation; (ix) expand secondary school capacity, PTAs for secondary schools, and school
facilities for computer literacy; (x) establish primary schools in seriously deficient districts; (xi) further
increase in higher education user charges; and (xii) continue to strengthen the monitoring and supervision
system, including the commissioning of a regular third party user and facility survey in October 2002
(approaching 1 year delay), and annually thereafter, for independent monitoring of service delivery
indicators.

Health (Achievement of Board conditions satisfactory). The implementation of reforms in the health
sector as agreed in the SAC has made slow but steady progress. The new political government appears to
be committed to most of the agreed reforms. FY03 allocations are adequate both in development and
recurrent budgets in line with MTBF, with the exception of the Health Management Information System
(HMIS). The allocations include adequate financing for preventive programs and program priorities. The
releases have been timely at the provincial level; however, releases of non-salary budget at the district level
have been delayed. The implementation of the FY03 budget is slow because of the weak institutional
capacity of district governments and the slow release of funds caused by procedural bottlenecks especially
to the district governments. Additional completed core measures included establishment of a management
cadre for the sector (but no progress in assigning staff to the management cadre), increased managerial and
financial authority to tertiary hospitals, rationalization of district health services, increased female nursing
staff and Lady Health Workers (LHW) and expansion of the immunization program.

The provincial reform program is making good progress in the areas of TB control using DOTS strategy
and expansion of the LHWs program with adequate allocation in FY03 development budget. The TB
program has been expanded as planned from 5 to 10 districts and overall coverage increased from 20
percent to 45 percent with a regular monitoring and reporting system in place. Similarly, plans to expand
the LHWs program to increase coverage of mothers and children health programs especially in rural areas
is making good progress with the number of LHWs increased from 7,800 to 8,655 and another 75 are
under training.

The work on development of a comprehensive plan for medium to longer-term sectoral reforms is in final
draft. The capacity of the Health Sector Reform Unit (HSRU) has been strengthened. However, the
Department continues to lose trained staff and existing capacity remains limited for developing detail plans
for the reforms. The rationalization program is being expanded to 12 districts. It includes training to build
skills of district managers in planning, budget formulation and personnel management which has been
started. To ease the critical shortage of nurses to improve quality of care at the district and sub-district


                                                      - 12 -

hospitals, 255 posts are being created as part of the rationalization program. The reform program is in an
early stage of implementation and its effects are likely to be seen in next 6 to 12 months. The capacity of
the HSRU, and the Health Department, to design and implement the reforms remains limited. In addition,
coordination and monitoring processes to assess progress of implementation at the district level remains
weak and needs attention in the continuing policy dialog.




Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability

Achievement of Board conditions satisfactory. In part from the proceeds of the credit, the Provincial
Government paid seven high interest loans of PR5.7 billion. This debt restructuring has created significant
fiscal space of about PR843 million annually. Additionally, the Government has planned over five years to
retire PR29 billion of high priced (14 percent) debt to the federal government by borrowing at far lower
rates (about 6 percent) on the commercial market. This is however entirely dependent on approval from the
Federal Government both to borrow in the market and to retire the debt to the Federal Government. The
latter would reduce the Federal Government's fiscal space as it would lose revenue from the interest
earnings received from the Provincial Government. Another important output was the approval of a
Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF) which helped achieve a predictable fiscal outlook. As part of
the MTBF, pro-poor expenditures in the form of primary service delivery have remained on track. The
wheat subsidy was also reduced and the district development funds were released to the Districts on a
formula basis. A start has been made on establishing a unit for preparing a MTBF but much remains to
strengthen this unit.

There are two major outputs under taxes. Tax simplification was achieved by reducing the number of
provincial taxes from 22 to 9. The tax base was also broadened by introducing the Agriculture Income
Tax (AIT), increasing the number of rating areas for the Urban Immovable Property Tax from 18 to 27,
and better enforcement of the GST.

A Financial Management Reform Program was initiated, a Provincial Financial Controller position was
established and filled, and reconciliation of expenditures and revenues is now public. This reconciliation is
increasing significantly and has risen to 96 percent. The Provincial Public Accounts Committee has been
established and will operate with public access. The newly formed PAC plans to hold its first meeting in
June 2003. One concern is that the PAC will become overwhelmed with minor cases and so it is important
that the PAC be shielded from the less significant objections so that it will have time to deal with more
important policy matters. The DAO positions have been upgraded in the major districts as envisaged in the
reform program, but capacity building is slow. A new Procurement Ordinance was approved, and a draft
of their procurement rules and standard bidding documents have been prepared. Procurement reforms are
considered to be highly satisfactory. The Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment for NWFP
carried out jointly by the Bank and the Government is at an advanced stage. As part of the follow-on
program a Financial Management Improvement action plan is expected to be agreed as part of this which
will form the basis for future financial management reforms in the province.

The follow-on fiscal program has not produced the desired results. The main reason, in addition to some of
the exogeneous factors discussed in section 5, is that the provincial government did not follow-up its
revenue policy measures with the necessary revenue administration measures.           There was a general
implementation lapse in that the GoNWFP did not take the necessary remedial actions to ensure that the


                                                    - 13 -

revenue targets were reached.

Promoting Sustainable Growth

Achievement of Board conditions satisfactory. GoNWFP carried out the core conditions by establishing
the Deregulation Committee, closing at least three agricultural and commercial autonomous entities and
approving the privatisation of the Khyber Bank. A new Hydel policy has been formulated for private
sector investment in small (up to 5000 kw) Hydel projects; a total of 85 MW under construction in
different sites on Upper Swat canal. Major mining sector regulatory reforms have taken place. These
include: (i) ratification of the National Mineral Policy (NMP) 1995; (ii) re-constitution of the Mines
Committee, with strong private sector representation, who would provide technical input into policy
formulation, and help increase transparency in decision-making, among other things; (iii) a new Directorate
for Mineral Development has been created by merging three existing agencies that were established for
mineral development. Mining Concession Rules, 1976 have been amended for the gem sector to allow
entry of small scale gemstone excavators; the new rules allow an SME to apply for land lease for gemstone
excavation without the pre-requisite of getting registered with any official entity. This is in sharp contrast
from the past when only registered firms could apply.

However, in the follow-on program, the new government has expressed reservations to the SAC target of
reducing its equity holding in Bank of Khyber to less than 50 percent. At present, the GoNWFP does not
have a well-defined strategy for private sector development and its linkages to poverty reduction. There has
been little progress in developing, announcing and implementing a sound strategy for faster and sustainable
broad-based economic growth and poverty reduction -- both rural and urban -- where the private sector is
the engine of growth.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Though the measures supported by the NWFP SAC could lead to a substantial institutional development
impact in the future, for now the impact must be characterized as modest. There are a number of
uncertainties that only time will resolve, such as the success of the governmental devolution and the new
government's commitment to civil service reform. Whether the Districts will be able to improve on social
service delivery will depend on sustained commitment at both the provincial and district levels and the
successful building of implementation capacity at the District level. Once beneficiaries receive reliable,
basic social services and come to expect a certain minimum level of service quality, the argument for
substantial impact is supported, but not until that time. Continued civil service reforms will not be easy
and will test the new Government. Progress so far is modest from an institutional point of view and it will
take some time to observe the effectiveness of the Provincial PSC. In that regard it is important that the
Government continue the policy of an autonomous Provincial PSC for recruitment of grades 11 and above.
 It is also premature to suggest that the impact of judicial reforms is substantial. The follow-on program
that includes the establishment of specialized courts for family law, minor civil cases, etc., and the number
of cases processed will be critical for the impact of judicial reforms.



                                                     - 14 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The main factor outside the control of the Government/Implementing agencies were the political forces at
play leading up to and following the elections in October 2002. The change in government led to political
and bureaucratic inertia all over Pakistan. Key reform champions, such as the former Finance Minister and
the former Education Minister, were unelected and so are no longer in the provincial government. NWFP
lost reform momentum as a result. It may be too early to tell to what extent the new officials in government
will champion reforms. Another important factor that hampered implementation was the installation of the
new Local Government (LG) system which began in August 2001. Most of FY02 (July 2001 to June 2002)
and FY 2003 were occupied with getting the system in place. The limited capacity of the LG functionaries
in project preparation, in particular, and coordination problems within the LG system and with the
Provincial government led to delayed implementation of projects, especially in the social sectors. These
problems were not limited to NWFP but were encountered all over Pakistan.

The drought has also slowed the economic recovery and depressed agricultural income and therefore tax
revenue from the AIT. The other main factor was the geopolitical turmoil in the region. September 11 set
back the real economy from which it is still recovering. The continuing military operation in neighboring
Afghanistan and the war in Iraq have created additional uncertainty. Despite continued regional tensions
Pakistan has increased both exports and imports and improved tax collection. Thus, while Pakistan has
shown resilience to regional instability, its progress is vulnerable to further shocks.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Weak preparation of the districts for the new LG system meant that social service delivery could not
improve as much as would have been possible given the large increase in social expenditures.
Implementing the large increase in social expenditures was slowed partly because of the fact that devolution
was thrust upon the districts before they were fully ready. There were also some important changes in the
civil bureaucracy such as the transfer of the Finance Secretary, the main counterpart for the Bank, out of
the province and also Secretaries of Education and Health that initially inhibited the reform implementation.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Monitoring performance appears weak as there does not seem to be much set up in the way of quick
updates of monitoring indicators of such things as teacher absenteeism, improved professionalism of public
institutions, impact of judicial reforms, etc. Monitoring efforts need to be increased at the District and
Provincial levels to ensure continuously improving socio-economic outcomes.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original credit amount was SDR 71.2 million (US$90 million equivalent). The entire credit
amount was disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness. The credit was made on standard IDA terms
with a term of 35 years, a 10-year grace period, and an IDA service charge of 75 basis points. The
proceeds helped the GoNWFP increase social expenditures and achieve additional fiscal space by helping
to restructure provincial debt under more favorable terms. The borrower was the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan which on lent the funds in PAK rupees (also on IDA terms) to the Province of NWFP.



                                                     - 15 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Though the sustainability of the NWFP SAC is rated likely, because of the uncertainties created by the
election results and implementation of the follow-on program, "uncertain" might be a more accurate rating
(but it is not an official rating). The NWFP SAC was effective (tranche conditions fulfilled) only three
months before the election, and reform progress continued as the elections neared. The elections brought
widespread changes in top level positions. In addition, it took several months to form the provincial and
national governments. During this period, the reform program slowed considerably. The Government has
since expressed full committment to continued implementation of the SAC-supported Provincial Reform
Program in a letter (27 February 2003) from the new Finance Minister. Nevertheless, there are three areas
of high concern to sustainability: the poor record in increasing provincial own-revenues, civil service
reforms and establishing clear linkages between the provincial growth strategy and poverty reduction.
These areas will require close supervision from the Bank.

The Government has reaffirmed continuity of reforms in the recent FY04 budget speech. In the near term
the increased social spending (health and education) appears reasonably sustainable. However, while the
FY04 budget allocations for social spending remain higher than before the SAC, their share of total
spending is declining and falling further behind the MTBF target path in the SAC. This is even more
accentuated in the case of development spending. Correspondingly the share of current spending has
increased contrary to the MTBF target path. In the medium to longer term achieving fiscal sustainability
would require substantial progress in own revenue collection and containment of non-social current
spending.

The issue of sustainability of the program was raised at several points during the project cycle and also by
the Board. It was agreed that the Credit-supported reforms had (and continues to have) wide public
support and ownership. There is a strong public demand to fix the public health and education systems,
provide better social services and improve the performance and accountability of public servants. There is
also a need for generating more resources for the NWFP, which is highly indebted and dependent on
Federal government resources. The GoNWFP, which is considered among the best functioning provincial
governments in Pakistan, also felt strongly the need to improve financial accountability and management of
the government. Overall the reform program appears to have a reasonable basis for sustainability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

There have been problems with the capacity of the bureaucracy to implement the program at the LG level,
but the GoNWFP is addressing this issue with an extensive capacity building program.               Regarding
fiscal/financial sustainability, the province has limited revenue to tap in the medium run. It is also
dependent on transfers from the Federal government.            Expenditures have little fiscal space with
establishment and debt servicing costs taking up approximately 70 percent of the budget in recent years
(though the situation is improving). Hence, efforts at increasing provincial resources, getting agreement on
contentious sources of revenues (such as Hydel profits from WAPDA), and containing expenditures and
increasing expenditure efficiency will be important for financial sustainability.

In general, the types of reforms supported by the NWFP SAC, such as those promoting local government
and governance require years to achieve, but are also expected to be sustained as a new way of doing



                                                   - 16 -

business. Transparency and accountability are being ingrained in processes of social service delivery.
These processes will require continued support for at least the two-year remainder of the plan period.
While there is still the potential for some policy divergence from the program down the road, an intensified
dialog leading to the next operation would help mitigate this risk.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The project was prepared in record time and with limited number of staff. The PRP was
basically homegrown, though there were limited ESW inputs on provincial macroeconomic issues and other
sectoral inputs. It would have been preferable to have more ESW input in the future and some of this work
has already started. Input for future PSD work will be available in the Investment Climate Assessment for
Pakistan. There was little time for consultations with the LG functionaries and civil society on the reform
program in the last operation. The next operation should have more buy-in on reforms from the political
representatives at different levels (e.g. Provincial, District, sub-District) and also from members of civil
society.




7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. A system of quarterly reporting of selected fiscal expenditures was set up between the
NWFP SAC Reform Monitoring Unit and the Islamabad Field Office. However, the reporting of
consolidated spending (provincial and district governments) on health and education (recurrent and
development) was deficient. Dialogue on reform continues regularly with the main GoNWFP counterparts
and has been effective in assisting the follow-on program. Review missions took place in September 2002,
January 2003, and May 2003. The May review mission indicated shortfalls in a number of areas that
would require more time for the authorities to implement the remaining program measures. Supervision was
generally thorough, but the Bank could improve its efforts in working with the Government to implement
monitoring and evaluation of the reform program's components.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. The Bank conducted a sustained policy dialog with the Government, which resulted in a
meaningful reform program that was consistent with national priorities, and the completion of all
conditions.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. Borrower performance was good and a key feature of the reform program was the significant
borrower ownership. It was initiated by reform champions in the previous government. The PRP provided
the blueprint for the provincial reform effort, which the SAC supported. There was a significant reliance
on consultants for much of the ground work for the policy program, but the directions were homegrown and
the Government is relying less on external inputs in the prelude to a potential NWFP SAC2.

7.5 Government implementation performance:



                                                     - 17 -

Satisfactory. The Government carried out all Board Conditions for a timely tranche release. During the
main supervision mission in September 2002, the ministries and agencies demonstrated continued
ownership of their provincial reform program. The Government went beyond core conditions to implement
a broader reform program. While the implementation performance was slower than expected, indications
are that the GoNWFP is taking serious actions in some areas to limit the shortfalls against the program
targets, in particular with regard to health, education and development spending for this fiscal year. It is
also clear that the GoNWFP needs to do a better job of monitoring the reform program. Thus, while there
are some shortcomings in the broader program, a satisfactory rating is still warranted. The World Bank
recognizes this satisfactory performance and has endorsed the preparation of the second (out of three
planned) SACs for the NWFP. An auditor reviewed the conversion of the US$ credit into Pak Rupees at
the Province level to ensure full value to the province.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. Implementing agencies had to cope both with the newness of the NWFP SAC (in the past,
operations had been conducted through the central government) as well as the ongoing process of
devolution.    NWFP authorities generally managed to take on the challenge and seize most of the
opportunities offered by the NWFP SAC. Implementation was reasonably good despite the adjustment
problems at the local level. The province has also taken the lead in establishing district government cadres
in Education and Health sectors with the hope of improving accountability and performance of the majority
of employees.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The Borrower showed initiative and ownership of the broad reform program, implemented
all core conditions under the SAC, and though reform momentum has not fully recovered since the
elections, the follow-on program has been substantial, which qualifies for a satisfactory performance
overall.

8. Lessons Learned


It is better to proceed with a reform program credit even if there are the risks of first-time lending to
a sub-national borrower, new elections and other risks, if there is borrower ownership.                   At
preparation there was considerable uncertainty, particularly on the political front because of the upcoming
October elections, whether to proceed with the NWFP SAC. In retrospect, it was the correct call to
proceed because it has led to the buy-in on reforms by the new government in NWFP (as well as in Sindh).
There were fears that the devolution program would be diluted by the new government (or Provincial or
National Assemblies), but the Bank's support to provinces under the SAC to strengthen decentralization
and devolution has helped reformers in the provinces. Proceeding with the SAC meant that there was an
established reform program that could guide a new government and limit errant policy decisions. In
addition, if a reform program has had time to put tangible improvements for the people in the pipeline, as in
NWFP's case, then the new government has a strong incentive to continue the reform program.

An accompanying TA project would enhance the effectiveness of subsequent SACs. The NWFP
reform program is comprehensive and complex and there are a number of areas where sustained expertise
and capacity building would be of great benefit. The slow implementation in some areas shows the need to
strengthen implementation capacity, among other things through technical assistance. For example, NWFP



                                                     - 18 -

authorities will need assistance in developing implementation capacity at the District level in order to
ensure improved social service delivery. M&E is another area that would benefit from TA. It would be
preferable if the TA were supported by grant funding. The limited progress by the authorities in
undertaking analytical studies (on the province's economic growth potential and its tax potential, among
other things) shows that the Bank could usefully complement its assistance with ESW in related areas.

The ramifications of judicial reforms and devolution must be reasonably well understood before their
implementation. The Bank and other donors noted the constitutional requirement for a judiciary separate
from the executive branch, but did not fully take into account the vacuum created by abolishing the
Magistrate (as part of the program of Devolution, not specifically the SAC) as an arbiter of average
citizen's disputes or as a mediator between the public and the police. Violence has erupted between the
police and the public in NWFP with considerable loss of life. Family courts and minor civil courts should
be established expeditiously to compensate for the loss of the Magistrate's judicial role.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                   - 19 -

- 20 -

- 21 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

NA




                                             - 22 -

   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                                            A. Outcome Indicators

 Outcome Indicator/Matrix                          Core Conditions and Triggers                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                         for follow-up on program
                                                       (Core Conditions in Bold)

1. Strengthening Accountability and Professionalism of State Institutions

Government restructuring to devolve           Uphold the effective ban on new recruitment;           All completed and contract policies continue to be
staff to districts and rationalize staffing,  restructuring of 26 Departments/attached               implemented except for judiciary, police and prison
consistent with decentralization agenda,      departments and abolition of more than 6000            workers, which are exempted. Recruitment ban not
to improve efficiency and effectiveness of    positions; notification of the Surplus Pool and        applicable to teachers, doctors and paramedics.
provincial government.                        Facility Specific contract Policies.

Promoting merit and professionalism of        Establish full authority of the NWFP Public            NWFP PSC has been established and granted
the civil service, and improve Human          Service Commission (PSC) for recruitment of            administrative autonomy. However, the
Resource Management.                          officers; increase the PSC's administrative            preponderance of transfers and postings including
                                              autonomy; introduce a transparent and                  those influenced by the political leadership may
                                              merit-based promotion system; approve                  detract from steady progress towards a transparent
                                              comprehensive capacity building program.               and merit-based system of promotion and postings.

                                              Reduce recruitment time to four months for             Recruitment time; no system for tracking this data
                                              contractual and tenured staff; pilot contract-based    has been set up and hence no data is available.
                                              employment; implement capacity building program.
                                                                                                     Capacity building under implementation in
                                                                                                     particular for district officers in planning and
                                                                                                     budgeting and health managers.

                                                                                                     Contract based employment continues.

                                                                                                     Completed with family and small claims courts to
                                              Judiciary separated from executive and                 be established in follow-on program.
Judiciary made independent                    provided financial and recruitment autonomy.

Monitoring strengthened to improve public     Implement and publish Multiple Indicator Cluster       MICS: Done.
service performance and responsiveness to     Survey (MICS); full funding of educational and
public needs.                                 health management information systems; approve         HMIS was not provided any resources in the
                                              program for third party monitoring and user surveys.   recurrent budget as agreed and at present it is only
                                                                                                     being supported by the Women Health Project.
                                                                                                     HMIS reporting rate from health facilities has
                                                                                                     decreased from 85% in 2001 to 77% in 2002,
                                                                                                     reportedly due to inadequate funding for reporting
                                                                                                     instruments.

                                                                                                     Very little progress on third part monitoring and
                                                                                                     user surveys; one year delayed.

2. Education and Health Sector Reforms

Education reforms to expand access to         Approve program for provision of water and             Program approved in December 2002 and

quality education services, improve           sanitation facilities to all girl's schools.           construction underway and scheduled for

enrollments by 15% in 3 years, reduce                                                                completion before July 2003.

gender disparities, increase adult literacy,
and reduce/eliminate absenteeism                                                                     A comprehensive exercise was carried out by the
                                                                                                     education department with a plan to implement the
                                                                                                     recommendations of the staff facility rationalization
                                                                                                     exercise. Recommendations were implemented but
                                                                                                     there was resistance from the teachers' associations
                                                                                                     and therefore, results of the exercise have not been
                                                                                                     fully implemented.




                                                                           - 23 -

  Outcome Indicator/Matrix                     Core Conditions and Triggers for                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                          follow-on program
                                                       (Core Conditions in Bold)

                                             Complete provision of sanitation/water facilities to    The total development expenditures allocated to
                                             girl's schools; achieve enrollment and dropout          school education are lagging at 24 percent of
                                             reduction targets; complete expanded recruitment and    allocation because of delay in upgrading of basic
                                             redeployment of teachers; FY03 expenditures (total      facilities. Non-salary expenditures are 47 percent of
                                             and IM&R) as per MTBF program.                          allocation (through April 2003) and salary
                                                                                                     expenditures are 67 percent.

                                            Introduce teacher absenteeism monitoring                 No well-functioning monitoring system in place.

                                            system.                                                  Apparently monitoring committees have been
                                                                                                     established, but no reports have been issued.

                                                                                                     Not done. A notification to establish separate

                                             Complete teacher/management caderization.               cadres would be issued by December 2003.

                                                                                                     Done, but actual expenditures lagging (see above).


                                             Increase education allocations within MTBF.

Health reforms to strengthen provincial     Establish a management cadre; grant                      There has been no progress in assignment of staff
and district management capacity,           increased managerial and financial authority             to the management cadre. The Health Department
improve the quality and coverage of         to tertiary hospitals; initiate rationalization          is still working on the modalities. The final plan is
communicable disease control and            of district health services; approve program             likely to be implemented by end-August 2003.
maternal and child health intervention      to increase female nursing staff and LHWs;
programs.                                   approve enhanced immunization program;                   All other actions have been completed.
                                            increase health allocations within MTBF.


3. Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability

Improved development effectiveness of        Introduce agriculture income tax; approval              Follow on program-on track except AIT study,
expenditures and fiscal discipline;          of AIT administration modernization study;              which is delayed.
strengthen provincial revenue base;          rationalize total number of taxes; restructure
protect key social and priority              and enlarge urban immovable property tax
development expenditures in the budget;      from 18 to 27 rating areas, and revise
reduce untargeted subsidy; improve the       valuation formula.
maintenance of public assets and
infrastructure.                              Adopt FY03-05 MTBF; reduce wheat subsidy;               Done
                                             release funds to districts on formula basis in
                                             FY02; establish Road Maintenance Fund and the
                                             General Provident and Pension Funds.

Strengthen financial management              Initiate Financial Management Reform                    Follow-on program-on track except
capacity and accountability; increase the    Program: publicly-available monthly                     reconciliation and reporting of expenditure data
transparency and efficiency of public        reconciliation of revenue and expenditure               by districts.
procurement.                                 accounts; establishment of Provincial Public
                                             Accounts Committee (PAC); upgrade DAO
                                             positions for major districts; appoint
                                             provincial financial controller; new
                                             Procurement Ordinance approved; adoption
                                             by Cabinet of Financial Management Reform
                                             Action Plan.

4. Promoting Growth

An improved business environment to         PSD enabling reforms initiated: establish                Done
increase investment, private sector         Deregulation Committee; close three
business activity; accelerate rural growth. agricultural and commercial autonomous
                                            bodies; Privatization decision of Bank of
                                            Khyber approved.




                                                                         - 24 -

                                                        B. Output Indicators

Output Indicator/Matrix                           Core Conditions and Triggers                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                       (Core Conditions in Bold)

1. Strengthening Accountability and Professionalism of State Institutions

Government restructuring to devolve staff    Annual review of the restructuring and staff          No review has been undertaken since there has
to districts and rationalize staffing,       rationalization's; notify and implement revised Rules been no further restructuring and rationalization.
consistent with decentralization agenda, to  of Business.
improve efficiency and effectiveness of                                                            Rules of Business were notified on October 31,
provincial government.                                                                             2001 (i.e., before the credit approval in July 2002).

Promoting merit and professionalism of       Computerize HR database for all provincial/district   Major delays; TORs have now been issued.
the civil service, and improve Human         employees.
Resource Management.

Monitoring strengthened to improve public     M&E arrangements fully functional.                   M&E not fully functional.
service performance and responsiveness to
public needs.                                 Publicly disseminate third party survey report and   Third party validation surveys for health and
                                              agency annual reports; EMIS and HMIS made fully      education delayed by close to one year.
                                              functional.


2. Education and Health Sector Reforms

Education reforms to expand access to        Approve staff rationalization program, establish      Done and teacher redeployment implemented.

quality education services, improve          education sector reform unit; approve program to

enrollments by 15% in 3 years, reduce        recruit 2000 primary teachers.

gender disparities, increase adult literacy,                                                       Being done on priority basis.

and reduce/eliminate absenteeism.            Complete provision of sanitation/water facilities to
                                             girl's schools.
                                                                                                   Progress, but somewhat slower than the
                                             Achieve enrollment and dropout reduction targets.     medium-term target path.


                                             Complete expanded recruitment and redeployment of     Ongoing.
                                             teachers.

                                             Implement absenteeism monitoring system.              No well-functioning monitoring system has been
                                                                                                   established

                                             Complete teach/management caderization.               Not done. A notification to establish separate
                                                                                                   cadres to be issued by December 2003.

                                             FY03 expenditures (total and IM&R) as per MTBF        Done.
                                             program.

Health reforms to strengthen provincial      Deploy 1,800 new Lady Health Workers and 200          All done, with plan to recruit an additional
and district management capacity,            female nurses; pilot facility-specific contract       3,000 LHWs by end FY03/beginning FY04.
improve the quality and coverage of          employment.
communicable disease control and                                                                   Draft health sector reform plan envisaged ready
maternal and child health intervention       Approve long-term health sector reform plan.          by end-June 2003.
programs.




                                                                          - 25 -

Output Indicator/Matrix                          Core Conditions and Triggers                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                       (Core Conditions in Bold)
3. Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability

Improved development effectiveness of       Program to modernize AIT administration initiated;        Reports considerably delayed and not yet
expenditures and fiscal discipline;         tax rates/policy revised in light of tax potential study  completed. Hence the 2003/04 fiscal budget did
strengthen provincial revenue base; protect to be undertaken in FY03.                                 not incorporate the expected policy input. AIT
key social and priority development                                                                   study to be completed by July 2003. Tax Potential
expenditures in the budget; reduce          Implementation of the FY03 budget consistent with         and Growth Potential studies commissioned with
untargeted subsidy; improve the             targets to enhance social expenditure, boost own          final reports expected in July 2003.
maintenance of public assets and            revenues; limit wheat procurement for strategic stocks
infrastructure.                             only; full functioning of the Road Fund, Pension and      On track in some areas, but shortfalls on own
                                            Provident Funds; Provincial Finance Awards                revenue collection and ADP spending on health
                                            announced.                                                and education. Wheat procurement limited to
                                                                                                      buffer stock only. Road, Pension and Provident
                                                                                                      Funds have been opened and deposits made.

                                                                                                      PFC Award on interim basis in FY03 and FY04.

Strengthen financial management capacity    FY03 benchmarks of the Financial management               Procurement Ordinance promulgated in 2002.
and accountability; increase the            reform action plan met; new Procurement Regulations       Formal notification of new procurement rules
transparency and efficiency of public       notified; and standardized procurement and bidding        expected by July 2003. Provincial Public Accounts
procurement.                                system as per the Procurement Ordinance.                  Committee has been established and will operate
                                                                                                      with public access. The newly formed PAC plans
                                                                                                      to hold its first meeting in June 2003. DAOs have
                                                                                                      been upgraded to grade 18 in the major districts.

4. Promoting Growth

An improved business environment to         PSD reforms continued, including: PSD Strategy            Satisfactory reduction in the number of inspection
increase investment, private sector         announced; satisfactory implementation of                 of industries (deregulation program). The new
business activity; accelerate rural growth. Deregulation program; GoNWFP shareholding in              GoNWFP has reservations to reducing its
                                            BOK below 50%; and rural/agriculture growth               shareholding in BOK below 50%. Comprehensive
                                            strategy developed.                                       PSD strategy and rural/agriculture growth strategy
                                                                                                      have not yet been developed and announced.




                                                                          - 26 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                            Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million       US$ million
  Budget Support                                              90.00              90.00               100


  Total Baseline Cost                                         90.00              90.00
                          Total Project Costs                 90.00              90.00
                    Total Financing Required                  90.00              90.00
  or SDR71.2 million




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
      Component               Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                          IDA       Govt.       CoF.     Bank       Govt.      CoF.     IDA    Govt.   CoF.
Budget Support            90.00                          90.00                          100.0



  or SDR71.2 million




                                                  - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                           No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                                (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                     Month/Year          Count            Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               January 2002                        3    Economists
                                                   1    Legal
                                                   1    Finance
                                                   1    Public Sector Development
                                                   1    Health
                                                   1    Education

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               May 2002 -                          4    Economists                            S               S
               June 2002                           1    Legal
                                                   2    Finance
                                                   1    Public Sector Development
                                                   1    Education
                                                   1    Health

 Supervision
               September 2002                      4    Economists                            S               S
               January 2003                        2    Finance
               May 2003                            1    Public Sector Development
                                                   1    Education
                                                   1    Health


 ICR
               December 2002 -                     1     Economist                            S               S
               June 2003



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                             Actual/Latest Estimate
                                             No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                        25.51                           129.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  (included above)                (included above)
  Supervision
  ICR                                               15.24                            42.7
  Total                                             40.75                           171.8
* Includes labor, travel and other costs.




                                                         - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Program Document For a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 71.2 million (US$90 million equivalent)
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a Structural Adjustment Credit for the government of NWFP, May
31, 2002.

Development Credit Agreement July 10, 2002.

Memorandum of the President on a Country Assistance Strategy for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, June
24, 2002.

Project Agreement between the International Development Association and the North West Frontier
Province, July 2002.

Project Status Reports from supervision missions (Project File)




                                                    - 32 -

- 33 -

