Report No. PID11217
Project Name             Pakistan-NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit
Region                   South Asia Region
Sector                   Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Project ID               PKPE77834
Borrower(s)              Government of Pakistan (GoP)
Implementing Agency      Government of the North West Frontier Province
Contact Person Abdul Wajid Rana
Secretary Finance
Tel: 92-91-9210334
Fax: 92-91-9211134
Environment Category     U (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared        May 17, 2002
Appraisal Date           May 13-16, 2002
Projected Board Date     July 9, 2002
1.      Country and Provincial Background
Soon after the military takeover, the new government issued a seven-point agenda
to revive the economy, root out endemic corruption, depoliticize state
institutions, devolve power to the grass-root level, and improve checks and
balances and democratic processes in society.   In December 1999, the government
announced its development strategy which focused on: (i) strengthening
governance and the integrity of the civil service; (ii) creating opportunities
through accelerating growth of agriculture, small and medium scale industries,
information technology, and oil and gas sectors; and (iii) reducing poverty
through revival of growth and re-orienting public expenditure towards human
development and poverty reduction. This reform agenda is now the backbone of
the government's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy. Many aspects of the reform
agenda built on the efforts of previous administrations, yet a salient new
feature was the government's recognition that governance improvement was at the
heart of its development strategy. Significant progress has been made already
in implementing this reform program particularly on macro economic
stabilization, deregulation, governance and devolution. The full PRSP is
expected to be completed after October 2002 when the newly elected government
takes office
In the short period of time leading to the FY02 budget, the government made
significant progress in turning around the poor governance environment that was
at the core of Pakistan's deteriorating economic and social performance. It
implemented a far reaching devolution program which led to locally elected
officials with the legitimacy and mandate to improve public service delivery.
Women were given more voice than in the past (33 percent of the total local
governments seats were reserved for them and the number of reserved seats was
tripled in the future national and provincial assemblies). It implemented
measures to reform the key institutions, reduce the fiscal deficit, strengthen
the banking system, improve public financial management and accountability,
enhance transparency and external oversight of government actions, improve the



climate for domestic and foreign investment, encourage export-oriented growth,
improve the delivery of key public services in health, education, and family
planning, and strengthen social safety nets. Despite severe shocks, including
the worst drought in decades; GDP at factor cost grew by 2.7 percent in 2000/01;
inflation is low and reserves have reached US$3.5 billion on March 31, 2002, one
third of imports, their highest level in a decade.
Pakistan is a federation of 4 provinces; Punjab, North West Frontier Province
(NWFP), Balochistan, and Sindh, seven tribal areas (excluding five tribal areas
adjoining settled areas called as Frontier regions); and the Northern Areas.
Pakistan's 1973 constitution grants major responsibility to the provinces for
regulatory oversight, provision of infrastructure (including irrigation and
agricultural extension services) and social services. The provinces account for
80 percent of total government spending on health, education, and irrigation.
In contrast, and contrary to experience with other federal countries, tax
authority is concentrated at the federal level. The federal government revenue
transfers account for as much as 84 percent of provincial resources, weakening
the accountability of provincial governments to taxpayers, as expenditure and
revenue decisions are made at two different levels of government.
As a result, and like the country as a whole, Pakistan's provinces have been
facing a crisis of public finances, public service delivery, and public
institutions and governance. The provinces suffer from large and worsening
"deficits" (shortfalls of spending and service delivery relative to needs) in
the funding, delivery, and quality of social services (education, health, rural
water supply and sanitation). Similar provincial infrastructure deficits (roads,
irrigation and drainage, and municipal services) increase the cost of doing
business and impose a heavy burden on the economy and the general public. Vital
irrigation water services are unreliable and controlled by antiquated, non-
transparent and unresponsive departments. The multiplicity of provincial
regulatory agencies harass the private sector and discourage entrepreneurship
and economic activity. The police is widely perceived as ineffective and
corrupt, while the judicial services are subject to long delays and are also
seen as sometimes corrupt and out of reach of the average citizen, let alone the
poor.
The province of NWFP faces serious and unique development challenges due to its
geography, history and location. With a population of close to 20 million, NWFP
is the third largest province of Pakistan. NWFP is one of the poorest provinces
in Pakistan.  Currently 31- of the urban and 47T of the rural population live
below the poverty line-far higher than the national average. The province has a
limited resource base, and much of its economic potential is unexploited. For
the last two decades, NWFP, the frontline province vis-a-vis Afghanistan, has
been hosting more than 2 million Afghan refugees (most of whom have practically
made the province their permanent home), which has exacerbated further the
provinces service delivery shortfalls as the already unmet needs continued to
increase while spending remained relatively the same. The continuing conflict
in Afghanistan is likely to worsen these "deficits" in social and infrastructure
services, by increasing further the cost of doing business, putting an enormous
pressure on public services, physical infrastructure, and the limited fiscal
resources of the province.
NWFP was the first province to prepare and embark on a comprehensive structural
reform program. Soon after taking over in 1999, the present Government of NWFP
(GoNWFP) faced a number of serious socioeconomic issues, and daunting
- 2 -



development challenges, including: a stagnant economy; endemically poor
governance and lack of accountability within the government and to the people;
poor service delivery in all major services with consequently low social
indicators; wasteful and inefficient expenditures; a rigid expenditure structure
dominated by establishment costs, debt servicing, and subsidies, low tax
potential, and heavy dependence on Federal transfers. Recognizing that many of
the problems were interdependent and needed a more systematic approach, the
Government of NWFP decided to formulate and implement a comprehensive reform
program to address the province's development challenges. For this purpose, it
took the initiative to prepare a strategy document, the Provincial Reform
Program (PRP) 2001-2004, which has been discussed extensively with various
agencies, including the Bank. It was approved by the NWFP Cabinet in June 2001.
Several of the PRP reform measures were incorporated in the FY02 budget and
reflected in the budget White Paper and other documents. The NWFP SAC would be
supporting the government's key reforms laid out in the PRP.
2.      Objectives
The main goal of the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)is to support
the Federal and Provincial Governments fundamental reforms for a transition to a
modern Islamic State through a program of analytical services, institutional
capacity building, and demand driven lending. In this context, the Pakistan CAS
advocates a programmatic approach focused on transfer of knowledge and capacity
building first, and resources transfer second, in a flexible pursuit of key
development outcomes. Pakistan's Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-
PRSP) sets out the process underlying a sweeping and ambitious reform program
covering political, institutional, economic, and social areas, including gender
equity. These reforms are inherently long term in nature as acknowledged by the
government and can therefore be more effectively supported by multi-year
programs-both at the national, provincial, and district level-hence the need for
a programmatic approach for the Bank Group's assistance strategy.
The core program of fiscal and governance reforms at both the provincial and
district levels is an area for which the Bank's programmatic approach is best
suited. Reforms take several years to yield results, and support needs to be
flexible and consistent to withstand the uncertainties inherent in such an
endeavor. Moving forward with reforms will also require assurance of a
reasonable degree of financial support over the medium-term. Hence the Bank's
use of a series of adjustment credits to the federal and provincial governments
will provide a predictable and performance-based budgetary support to enable
both levels of governments to restore their financial equilibrium while
undertaking the difficult and politically sensitive fiscal and structural
reforms. The approach will also help the Bank manage risks by pacing its
assistance with the future government's ability to pursue reforms, and to give
assurance of "just in time" support. The NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit
(NWFP SAC)-in support of the province's economic and social reform program-is in
line with this approach. These reforms are further supported by fiscal and
financial management measures to enhance provincial revenues and improve budget
preparation, execution, and oversight. The proposed credit is fully consistent
with the macroeconomic framework and the I-PRSP.
3.      Rationale of Bank's Involvement
The rationale for the credit is based on the province's substantial reform
program and its financial needs. Underlying both the selection of the Bank
- 3-



Groups strategic priorities and their implementation is the principle of "strong
client pull" for reform and selectivity. Part of the strategic objective behind
the "demand pull" approach is to aim for capacity building through lending and
non-lending support and to learn together with the client. There is a need to
focus, not just on what is important, but also on areas with strong client
commitment to carry out the necessary reforms. Bank Group financial support is
useful only among these. In this context, the Bank's assistance strategy has
already been reoriented to focus first on those provinces-NWFP and Sindh-which
have embarked on a comprehensive fiscal and economic reform program and have
sought Bank's assistance. The Bank will engage with its full set of services in
areas where the government has shown the strongest commitment to reform and has
demonstrated such commitment through measurable actions already taken. The
Government Of NWFP is fully committed to and owns the program, as is evident
from the PRP document and implementation over the last 18 months despite
financial and capacity constraints. Proactive reform champions include the
Governor, the Finance Minister, the Education Minister, and other key Cabinet
members and key administration officials. The reform program has clear
objectives and is well articulated. Importantly, the strong actions already
taken have enhanced the credibility of both the provincial leadership and the
sustainability of reforms. Since the reform program is wide ranging, includes
systemic changes, and cuts across several sectors, a programmatic approach is
the appropriate vehicle for supporting this comprehensive reform program.
Note by Sharjeel: The second last sentence in the above paragraph talks about
the credibility of the provincial leadership. While the PID talks about a
timeframe of at least 03 to 05, I think it sounds a little out of place to bank
upon the credibility of the existing un-elected leadership, knowing that in a
few months a new set of people may be at helm of affairs and there could be no
guarantee that people from the present lot would be around.
4.      Description
The proposed credit supports the implementation of the NWFP PRP which has the
following four main pillars:
I. Governance and Civil Service reforms
The objectives of the governance and civil service reform is to increase the
efficiency and effectiveness of government operations, including the delivery of
public services, raise the level of competence and integrity of government
officials and make them more accountable. The government's strategy to achieve
these objectives is to fully implement the devolution of power, decentralize the
functions and operations, reduce staff at the provincial level, tighten the
system of accountability, reorganize functions and departments at the provincial
level, improve recruitment, make promotions more performance-based, simplify
procedures, and computerize business processes. Most of these initiatives have
already been implemented.
II. Service Delivery Improvement Reforms
The major thrust of the Government's reform effort is to improve the delivery of
basic public services to improve the quality of and access to social services,
contribute to productivity growth and equity and reduce poverty. The Provincial
Reform Program has made educational improvement the foundation for achieving
longer-term economic development and poverty alleviation in the province. The
Government's medium-term objectives in this area are to: (i) improve primary
- 4 -



education (both enrollment and quality of instruction); (ii) reduce gender and
rural-urban disparities; and (iii) expand the capacity at the secondary school
level. The objective in the health sector is to significantly improve health
indicators in the province over the medium term. The Government's strategy,
prepared in consultation with stakeholders, is to: (i) improve the management
structure; (ii) reorganize health facilities, with a multi-level referral
system; (iii) focus on preventive and primary health care; (iv) remove obvious
gaps in facilities; (v) increase budgetary allocations as well as user charges;
(vi) and increase reliance on the private sector with adequate regulation. The
impact of these reforms is expected to be substantial. By the end of FY05, the
overall primary enrolment rate is expected to increase by 40t for girls (20w
overall); all girls and boys schools would have basic facilities (e.g.,
toilets, water, boundary walls, furniture) by FY04. The health sector reforms
expect to achieve an increase in immunization coverage of children under two
from 56t to 80t by FY05, full coverage of TB DOTS by FY04, and elimination of
polio cases by FY05.
With a relatively conservative society, NWFP required a special focus on the
development and welfare of women. The Government's strategy in this regard is
two-fold. First, in each of the sectoral reform areas, especially in the
crucial education sector, concerted efforts are being made to reduce gender
disparity and mainstreaming gender equity through out the reform program.
Second, the Department of Women Development has several schemes, under
implementation, with support from the private sector and local communities, to
promote skill development among women and provide temporary shelter, a crisis
center, and free legal assistance for women in distress.
III. Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms
To expand fiscal resources for meeting its growing development and service
needs, GoNWFP adopted a comprehensive medium-term fiscal strategy. This
includes: (i) increasing provincial revenues through the broadening of the tax
base and increasing user charge; (ii) divesting inessential activities; (iii)
implementing fiscal devolution; (iv) improving budgetary process, financial
management, and transparency; (v) strengthening the audit oversight
arrangements. In the medium term, the key emphasis would be on expenditure
management and increasing non-tax revenues and user charges, given the low
potential for enhancing taxes. As a result of these measures, the Government of
NWFP expects to increase its resources by Rs. 7.2 billion (1.6t of the
provincial GDP) over FY03-05 by doubling the collection of direct taxes,
increasing indirect taxes and user charges.
IV. Private Sector Development and Growth Oriented Reforms
The PRP correctly recognizes that the incidence of poverty and the vulnerability
of the poor will not be reduced without sustained, broad based economic growth.
This growth can only be generated and sustained by the private sector. The
province has therefore developed strategies to improve the business environment;
enhance productivity of agriculture; reduce the role of the public sector in
commercial and industrial activities, and promote public-private partnerships.
Reforms to improve the efficiency of the province's infrastructure, including
irrigation facilities, road and urban infrastructure and services; and
environmental protection would also support the growth process.
5.      Financing
-5-



US $90 million
6.      Implementation
The Department of Finance, Government of NWFP, would be responsible for
coordinating and overseeing the implementation of reforms. This work is being
coordinated with the sectoral Department of Education, Department of Health, the
Planning and Development Department, the Department of Industries, the
Provincial Audit Department, the Establishment and Civil Services Department,
the Works and Services Department, and the Federal Government. Technical
working groups are working in all these areas of reform, in most cases with
technical assistance from the DFID, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank,
and other donors.
7.      Sustainability
Some of the reforms and their impact are inherently long-term in nature and need
sustained commitment. This is especially true for governance and institutional
reforms that will take years of continued persistent efforts to bear fruit.
Sustained implementation will also require continuous buy-in from the
population. The latter will support reforms when they see concrete improvements
in their lives as a result of the implementation of reforms.
8.      Lessons Learnt from Past Experience
This is the first time the Bank would be engaging in sub-national lending in
Pakistan. However, there are important lessons of experience from other federal
countries in the world and from previous operations in Pakistan, and projects
implemented in the province of NWFP, that have been reflected in the preparation
of this Credit:
a) A quick-disbursing single-tranche credit, within the framework of a medium-
term reform program, with all policy actions taken upfront before the discussion
of the credit at the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors, is an effective
way of supporting reforms while providing governments with the needed financial
capital to sustain their reform programs. This approach also minimizes
implementation risks.
b) Close coordination with other international financial institutions benefits
the borrower. The Structural Adjustment Credit to NWFP has been prepared in
consultation with the ADB, the DFID, the UN agencies, and the majority of donors
active in Pakistan.
c) Bank advice and financial support is not imposed as a conditionality but
instead supports the Government's own "home-grown" reform program.
d) Strong field presence is important to facilitate the dialogue. The Country
Director's presence in Pakistan has strengthened the partnership between the
Bank, the federal and provincial government. It has strengthened the policy
dialogue and reduced the Bank's response time to requests for technical
assistance for the preparation of this Credit.
9.      Environmental Aspects
The policy measures supported by the Credit are not expected to have a direct
negative impact on the environment. The NWFP reform program includes the
strengthening of the provincial EPA that will have a positive impact on
environment. The Government is planning to expand its capacity to implement the
- 6 -



National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS) and review of environmental
assessment. The Governor has directed the line departments that public sector
projects should not proceed without an environmental assessment, as required
under the EPA law.
10.     Contact Point:
Task Manager
Abid Hasan
The World Bank Islamabad Office
20A, Shahrah-e-Jamhuriat
Ramna 5, Islamabad
Telephone: 92-51-2279641 (ext-206)
Task Manager
Mark Sundberg
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 001-202-473-4369
Fax: 001-202-617-0775
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
June 14, 2002.
-7-



