Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24188-PAK
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PROGRAM DOCUMENT
FORA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 71.2 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO US$90 MILLION)
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR
THE GOVERNMENT OF NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE
May 31, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia Region



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30; FY 02 =FY 2001/02
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PRs.)
US$1 = PKR 60.30 (May 2002 Floating Inter Bank Rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AsDB      Asian Development Bank                          LHW        Lady Health Worker
AG        Accountant General (Provincial)                 MDG       Millennium Development Goals
AIT       Agriculture Income Tax                          M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
AWB       Area Water Boards                               MICS       Multi-Indicator Cluster Survey
BHU       Basic Health Units                              MOP       Memorandum of President
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                     MTBF       Medium-Term Budget Framework
CDL       Cash Development Loan                           NAB       National Accountability Bureau
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment     NEAS       National Education Assessment System
CGA       Comptroller General of Accounts (Federal)       NFC       National Finance Commission
CIP       Community Infrastructure and Services Project   NGOs      Non-Government Organizations
CWD       Communications and Works Department             NRB        National Reconstruction Bureau
DAC       Departmental Account Committee                  NWFP      North West Frontier Province
DAO       District Accounts Office                        O&M        Operation & Maintenance
DFID      United Kingdom Department for International     P&D        Planning and Development Department
Development                                   PAC       Public Accounts Committee
DoE       Department of Education                         PAD        Pakistan Audit Department
DoH       Department of Health                            PFAA       Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment
EIROP     Essential Institutional Reform Operationalization  PFC     Provincial Finance Comrnission
Project                                       PIFRA     Pakistan Improvement of Financial Reporting
EMIS       Education Management Information System                     and Auditing
EPI       Expanded Program of Immunization                PD         Program Document
ESR       Education Sector Reform                         PIHD       Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
FMC       Fiscal Monitoring Committee                     PRGF       Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
GAVI      Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization   PRP        Provincial Reform Program
GoNWFP    Govemrnment of the North West Frontier Province  PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
GoP       Govermnent of Pakistan                          PSC        Public Service Commission
GST       General Sales Tax                               PSDP       Public Sector Development Program
GTZ       German Development Corporation                  PTAs       Parents-Teachers Associations
HMIS      Health Management Information System            SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
HR        Human Resource                                  SAP        Social Action Program
IDA       International Development Association           SBP        State Bank of Pakistan
IMF       International Monetary Fund                     SDC        Swiss Development Cooperation
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper        SMEDA      Small and Medium Enterprise Development
KPP       Khushal Pakistan Program                                     Authority
LGO       Local Government Ordinances                     UNDP       United Nation Development Program
WAPDA     Water and Power Development Authority
Vice President:           Mieko Nishimizu, SARVP
Country Director:         John W. Wall, SACPK
Sector Director:          Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
Task Team Leaders:        Abid Hasan, SACPK
Mark Sundberg, SASPR



NWFP STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.  THE ECONOMIC SETTING AND RECENT DEVELOPMENT ................................................ 1
A. Introduction ..................................................I
B. The National Context for Reform ..................................................1
II. THE PROVINCIAL CONTEXT FOR REFORM                              .4
m. THE PROVINCIAL REFORM PROGRAM                                 .8
A. Strengthening Accountability and Professionalism of State Institutions  .9
B. Accelerating Human Development .10
C. Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability .15
D. Promoting Sustainable Growth .20
IV. THE PROPOSED NWFP STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT                  .     .21
A. Pakistan Country Assistance Strategy .21
B. The Proposed Credit: Rationale, Prior Actions, and Medium Term Benchmarks .23
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .28
TABLES
Table 1: NWFP Social Indicators .
Table 2: NWFP Key Fiscal Indicators                        .7
Table 3: NWFP: Summary of Medium-Tenn Budget FY99 to FY05 .17
Table 4: Prior Actions and Key Triggers .25
Table 5: Monitoring Indicators .27
CHARTS
Chart 1: Poverty Trends                              .4
Chart 2: Poverty Head Count (Urban).                                                   5
Chart 3: Poverty Head Count (Rural).                                                   5
Chart 4: NWFP: Provincial Revenue and its Uses                  .7
ANNEXES
Annex A:   Letter of Development Policy and Policy Reform Matrix
Annex B:   Poverty and Social Development in NWFP
Annex C:   Devolution and Inter-Governmental Fiscal Framework for Pakistan and NWFP
Annex D:   NWFP Fiscal Restructuring and Medium Term Budget Framework FY03-05
Annex E:   Public Financial Accountability and Management in NWFP
Annex F:   NWFP Education Sector Reforms
Annex G:   NWFP Health Sector Reforms
Annex H:   NWFP Civil Service and Governance Reforms
Annex I:   NWFP Private Sector Development Program
Annex J:   Statistical Annex
MAP



Task Team
Task Managers              Abid Hasan, Mark Sundberg
Peer Reviewer              Jeffrey Hammer
Fiscal/Public Expenditure  Zareen Naqvi, Zubair Khan
Management
Administrative Reform      Nick Manning
Poverty Monitoring &       Ambar Narayan
Social Analysis
Sectoral Inputs            Ameer H. Naqvi, Shahnaz Kazi, Asya Akhlaque, Sarshar Khan, Sohail Malik
Legal Counsel              Said Al-Habsy
FMS/Procurement            Arif Yaqub, Ahsan Ali, Anwar Bhatti
Program Assistants        Subooh Badar, Shahid Malik, Lin Chin, Shams ur Rehman



PAKISTAN
NWFP STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:            Government of Pakistan (GoP)
Implementing Agency: Government of the North West Frontier Province (GoNWFP)
Beneficiary:         North West Frontier Province (NWFP)
Amount:              Credit: SDR 71.2 million (US$90 million equivalent)
Terms:               IDA: Standard with 35 years maturity and 10 years grace period
On lending Terms:    IDA terms with Federal Government bearing the foreign exchange risk
Description:         The NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit (NWFP SAC) supports the economic
and social reform program of the Province. The reform program is built on
four main pillars: (i) strengthening provincial governance through the reform
of the civil service to strengthen the accountability, integrity and
professionalism of state institutions; (ii) strengthening public health and
education delivery systems and the devolution of responsibilities to expand
access to these services, with a focus on primary service delivery; (iii) fiscal
and financial management reforms to increase provincial revenues, reprioritize
expenditures, strengthen procurement and improve budget preparation,
execution, and oversight; and (iv) deregulation and business facilitation to
enhance prospects for growth and poverty alleviation. The proposed credit is
fully consistent with the macroeconomic program and the Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy of the Government of Pakistan.
Beneflts:            Implementation of the NWFP SAC-supported reforms will transform the way
the provincial government provides services. Decentralization is shifting the
locus of responsibility to local governments, enhancing local capacity, and
developing a new strategic emphasis on development outcomes and primary
service delivery. The civil service reform and restructuring is integral to this
process, devolving administrative responsibility downwards, and advancing an
agenda for fiscal decentralization. This aims to make the government more
accountable, increase efficiency, and improve social indicators, including
reducing the significant gender disparities.
Risks:               The major risks are: (i) continuity of political commitment of the GoNWFP to
reforms given the forthcoming October 2002 elections; (ii) setbacks in the
implementation of the GoP's reform agenda; and (iii) external shocks arising
from a downturn in the economy or tensions along Pakistan's borders. While
lack of continuity will threaten many of the benefits expected from the reforms,
the Bank's support program is self-adjusting to mitigate the risk of reform
derailment through the entry and exit triggers. Follow-on lending will continue
only as long as the NWFP government continues to perform satisfactorily.
Disbursement:         The full amount of credit would be disbursed in a single tranche.
Project ID Number:   PE-P077834






IDA PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF PAKISTAN FOR THE NWFP STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
I. THE ECONOMIC SETTING AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN PAKISTAN
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.     This memorandum seeks approval for a US$90 million Structural Adjustment Credit to the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan for the Government of the North West Frontier Province (GoNWFP). This
credit will support a wide-range of reforms being implemented by the GoNWFP. These reforms, led by
strong champions in the government, including the Governor of the province, the Cabinet, committed
civil servants, and backed by civil society, aim to reduce poverty in the province by improving
governance, public finances, public service delivery, and the enabling environment for private sector
growth. These reforms are expected to reverse a decade of poor governance and economic and social
decline. The reforms are fully consistent with and complement the Federal Government of Pakistan's
(GOP) Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP).
2.     The proposed Credit is consistent with the FY03-05 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and
follows nearly two years of dialogue between the provincial government and the World Bank. The CAS
is focused on, inter alia, "provincial/district based assistance strategies focused on governance, human
development and community-based services" which this credit proposes to support. The Bank's dialogue
with the provincial government started with the discussion of the report Reforming Provincial Finances
(Report # 21362-PK). This report highlighted the need for restructuring provincial finances, improving
governance and public service delivery, and the investment climate in the context of a medium-term
reform program. In FY01, the Bank launched a dialogue with three provinces in Pakistan (Punjab, Sindh,
and NWFP) on their reform programs. NWFP is one of the provincial governments, along with Sindh,
where these reforms and dialogue have matured sufficiently to warrant Bank support. The GoNWFP has
sought financial assistance through an adjustment credit to support the province's ongoing comprehensive
reform program, which intends to bring about systemic changes to build a stronger foundation for growth
and poverty reduction in the medium term. The proposed credit is, thus, consistent with both the sub-
national emphasis of the Bank's CAS and strong client demand. This credit also supports the devolution
program by implementing critical province-wide reforns in fiscal management and governance.
3.     The proposed credit is also consistent with the macroeconomic framework and structural reforms
supported under the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF). Proceeds of the proposed
NWFP SAC will support enhanced provincial expenditures on priority development areas, as envisioned
under the Government's I-PRSP program. The Government of Pakistan has confirmed that additional
resources transferred to NWFP under the proposed Credit will be fully accommodated within the PRGF's
consolidated expenditure targets.
B. THE NATIONAL CONTEXT FOR REFORM
4.     Pakistan is a federation of 4 provinces' and 7 tribal areas. Under the 1973 Constitution most
public service delivery is the responsibility of provincial governments. Their budgets account for 80% of
Pakistan's public expenditures in areas such as education, health, agriculture, roads, and irrigation
services. In contrast, since tax authority is concentrated at the Federal Government, federal transfers
(based on the awards of the National Finance Commission (NFC)) account for around 80% of provincial
resources.2 Under the 1997 NFC awards the Federal government passes on 37.5% of all federally
I Balochistan, NWFP, Punjab and Sindh are the four provinces.
2This share varies between provinces, with Punjab and Sindh being relatively less dependent on Federal transfers.



- 2 -
collected taxes (on income, trade, and excise taxes) to the provinces based on their respective population
shares. The new NFC award (NFC 2002) is currently being discussed between the federal government
and the provinces (see para. 9).
5.     For over a decade, as at the federal level, Pakistan's provinces have been facing a crisis in public
finances, civil service performance, and public service delivery. Lack of fiscal space for poverty reducing
expenditures, a narrow tax base, a large but mainly unskilled civil service, poor accountability and
transparency, have resulted in the provinces suffering from deficits (shortfalls of spending and service
delivery relative to needs) in the funding and delivery of social services (education, health, rural water
supply and sanitation). Similarly, infrastructure deficits (roads, irrigation and drainage, and municipal
services in poor condition) increase the cost of doing business and impose a heavy burden on the
economy and the people. Multiple federal and provincial regulatory agencies harass the private sector
and discourage entrepreneurship and economic activity. An important point to be noted is that in
Pakistan, provincial fiscal deficits cannot exceed what the federal government is willing to lend to them
and the limited overdraft Ways and Means advances from the central bank.3
6.     Since assuming power in October 1999, the military government showed awareness of the
country's difficult circumstances. Its response was the quick articulation of an ambitious reform program
aimed at modernizing Pakistan and its institutions. Many aspects of the reform agenda built on efforts of
previous administrations, yet a salient new feature was the government's attention to governance. Cross-
cutting measures to improve governance were made the center of the reform program so Pakistan could
gradually rebuild its severely eroded credibility, re-establish confidence in public institutions, and
improve the investment climate to revive growth. Progress in the implementation of reforms during the
first two years of the administration was unprecedented - both for the scope and the depth of reforms. In
the short period of time leading to the FY02 budget, the government made significant progress in turning
around the poor governance environment that was at the core of Pakistan's deteriorating performance. It
implemented measures to reform key institutions, reduce the fiscal deficit, encourage export-oriented
growth, improve the climate for domestic and foreign investment, strengthen the banking system, improve
public financial management and accountability, enhance transparency and external oversight of
government actions, strengthen social safety nets, and improve the delivery of key public services in
health, education, and family planning. These reforms were actively supported by a ten-month US$600
million Stand-By Arrangement approved by the IMF Board in November 2001; new short term liquidity
relief approved by the Paris Club in January 2001; a US$350 million Structural Adjustment Credit
approved by IDA in June 2001, and a new program lending from the AsDB.
7.     The program of reforms initiated in 1999 has since been institutionalized in an Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), which was discussed at the Boards of the Bank and the IMF in
December 2001. The I-PRSP was formulated after extensive provincial/district consultations during
2001, and paved the way for a three-year US$1.25 billion Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
approved by the IMF Board in December 2001. The strategy aims at pooling poverty reduction efforts at
the federal, provincial and the district levels, linking social and poverty related expenditures with the
attainment of key social and human development goals. The Government's poverty reduction strategy is
based on four main pillars:
* reviving economic growth to at least 5 percent per year to accelerate poverty reduction;
addressing the debt burden problem through fiscal consolidation and more rapid export growth;
improving revenue mobilization and changing the composition of expenditures to allocate greater
resources toward social sectors and critical infrastructure; and improving the business
3 On a one time basis in the mid-1980s, provinces were allowed to raise federal government guaranteed loans from the domestic
market, but since then this has been discontinued.



environment by restoring the credibility of government policies and providing a level playing
field to all areas of business, removing distortions, and reducing the cost of doing business;
* improving governance by restoring the integrity and accountability of state institutions with a
particular focus on tax administration reforms; devolution of powers to newly established local
governments; improved public financial management; and civil service reforms;
*  closing the social gap by improving the delivery system of basic education, preventive health
care, and family planning while gradually increasing expenditures as stronger growth, improved
tax administration, and continued donor support enhance available resources; and
*  reducing the vulnerability of the poor by improving social protection and employment
opportunities by enhancing access to credit, redistribution of public lands, implementation of
community-based infrastructure programs, and direct cash transfers for the neediest.
8.     Pakistan has embarked on a far-reaching devolution program whereby power has devolved from
the provinces to the newly set up District Govemments, under the Local Govenmment Ordinance (LGO).4
The devolution has abandoned the old system of sub-national govemance consisting of the Provinces,
Divisions and Districts and created three new levels of country-wide elected govemrnments, along with the
Provinces. The three tiers are: Districts, Tehsils and Union Councils. There are now 6,455 new elected
local Governments.5 A major departure from the past has been the reservation of 33%6 seats for women
and explicit inclusion of other disenfranchised groups such as peasants and workers representatives in the
local govemments. The motivating idea behind the devolution was to reorganize state structures to
decentralize delivery of basic social services and improve accountability of state functionaries. Citizen's
involvement is a key element of the devolution plan. Elected members at the three tiers of local
govemment would be the key decision-makers responsible for planning, service delivery and oversight.
Compared to the earlier system where provinces were responsible for delivering most social and
economic services, the district govermments would be responsible, from now on, for delivering social
services. Tehsils and Union Councils would be responsible for local roads/streets, and all water and
sanitation services. (See Annex C for more details). Most of the administrative staff in the districts were
redeployed from the provincial line departments to the district and sub-district levels. However, the
capacity of district officials to manage remains an area in need of strengthening.
9.     While the political and administrative aspects of devolution have been implemented, more clarity
is needed on the new fiscal transfer framework and mechanisms between the three tiers. The impact of the
fiscal centralization of the past is still quite strong; sub-national govemments are heavily dependent on
federal transfers.7 There is increasing demand from the provinces to get a higher share of tax assignments
from the federal govemment. This is in light of the deteriorating provincial finances, higher debt burden
and also greater emphasis on poverty reduction expenditures which largely take place at the provincial
level. The federal govemment has proposed that perfomiance and need-based criteria be also included in
the formula. Pending establishment of the four permanent Provincial Finance Commissions (PFCs) under
the LGO, expected in July 2002, interim provincial finance committees have initiated work on the fiscal
devolution issues alongside the federal government's NFC 2002 Commission. Transparent and certain
federal-provincial and provincial-local government mechanisms clarifying fiscal responsibilities and
means of transfer of funds would be critical for fiscal decentralization to be fully achieved. The final new
NFC award is expected to be announced well before the FY04 budget. The PFC awards laying out the
provincial-district and sub-district arrangements would follow once the NFC awards are announced.
Implementation of both the new NFC and Provincial Finance Awards will start from FY04.
4Each province enacted a Local Govemment Ordinance (LGO) in July 2001.
5 Comprising 96 city /districts governments, 337 townlTehsil governments, and, 6022 union council governments.
6 The participation of women is, however, much lower. Only 17% of the more than 124,400 new union councilors are women; a
large number of women's seats remain vacant.
7For Provinces, an average 82 percent in FY01 and almost 100% for districts in FY02.



- 4 -
10.    The provinces will still retain a key role under the new decentralization structure for two reasons.
First, the provinces will continue to be responsible for critical province-wide services, including: (i)
managing the consolidated provincial finances and fiscal transfers to local governments; (ii) executing
provincial development programs, delivering province-wide services such as irrigation, road networks
and tertiary services; (iii) undertaking monitoring and evaluation of local governments; and (iv) providing
the regulatory framework for the private sector. Second, the success of decentralization depends on the
implementation of the key provincial reforms. These include: (i) fiscal restructuring to provide greater
non-salary budgets for local governments; (ii) civil service reforms to right size the civil service and not
burden district governments with excessive staff;8 (iii) governance improvements and strengthening of
accountability rules so that these help and not hinder local governments; (iv) setting up good monitoring
and evaluation systems, and strengthening local government administrative capacity. Clearly, any effort
to improve public services and human development will have to focus on provincial and district
government reforms.
11.    There is now a major opportunity for the provinces to turn around the performance of their public
sectors within the context of GOP's comprehensive reforms to accelerate growth and reduce poverty.
Provinces and the new local governments would be the linchpin of implementing the government's
poverty reduction strategy as envisioned in I-PRSP. Hence, support to provincial governments would be
essential to the success of both the devolution plan and Pakistan's poverty reduction strategy in the short
and medium term.
II. THE PROVINCLAL CONTEXT FOR REFORM
12.   NWFP faces difficult and unique development chaUenges due to its geography, history and
location. With a population of close to 20 million and growing at 2.8 percent per year, NWFP is the third
largest province of Pakistan. It is landlocked, as the country's only port is over 1500 km away to the
south. Land routes to the north are few and difficult through a hilly terrain. The province itself is largely
mountainous, with only 30 percent cultivated land. Nearly 50% of the population lives in the
mountainous and arid areas. NWFP shares a long border with eastem and southern Afghanistan and most
of its population has the same ethnic background (Pushtoon) as parts of bordering Afghanistan. Over the
past two decades, NWFP has been the frontline province vis-a-vis Afghanistan, hosting more than 2
million Afghan refugees (most of whom have practically made the province their home). The continuing
conflict in Afghanistan proved to be an especially heavy burden on the province's resources, creating a
serious disruption in trade, putting an enormous pressure on public services and physical infrastructure,
hence stretching the province's limited fiscal resources.
13.    NWFP is one of the poorest provinces
in Pakistan. Poverty is pervasive and deep,              Chart 1: Poverty Trends
especially in the rural and mountainous regions
of NWFP (Annex B). Currently 31% of the      45
urban and 47% of the rural population live   40- -            -
below the poverty line-far higher than the    35-
national average. Not only have poverty levels  30 -  ;=_=
25 ----------
been higher, (Chart 1, 2 and 3), but poverty  20 -
continued to rise in NWFP during the 1990s.   15-- +Pak
NWFP also stands high on several important    10  ------------------------------- ---  NWFP
determinants of poverty compared to other     0
provinces in Pakistan. These include having a     1992/93  1993.94  1996/97  1998/99
larger average family size (7.8 members per
household compared to 6.8 for Pakistan as a  Source: Poverty in Pakistan in the 1990s: An Interim Assessment,
The World Bank, 2001.
i Salaries now account for around 85% of district government budgets.



whole); higher dependency ratios; higher illiteracy rates,9 low education attainments; very small and
fragmented land holdings (average farm size in NWFP is only 2.2 acres compared to 9.4 acres in
Pakistan); and generally lower access to physical and health-related infrastructure. Given the limited
resource base and high dependence of the provincial economy on domestic and foreign worker
remittances, those with low human capital or skills who are unable to seek work outside the province tend
to be among the poorest groups. The recent district-level Multi-Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS), the first
one in Pakistan, shows that there is a considerable variation within the province in terms of poverty and
human development. Districts located in the northern mountainous zones and relatively inaccessible
areas rank very low in terms of social indicators with extremely low literacy levels, low primary school
enrolments, very low coverage for safe water and sanitation, and high levels of malnutrition.
Chart 2: Poverty Head Count (Urban)              Chart 3: Poverty Head Count (Rural)
35                                              50
30      EPakstan *NWFP                          45      UPakistan NNWFP
25                    _         _               35                     -
U             ~~~~~~~30 
20                                             2°
is -  Er                          ~~~~~20 
15 -       _        _         *                20 _       -                   C        _
10                                                         m        -I-
0         *                U0                                       - 
1992/93  1993t94   1996/97  1998/99         O   199293   1993/94   1995/97   1998     _
Source: Poverty in Pakistan in the 1990s: An Interim Assessment, The Wotld Bank, 2001.
14.     NWFP has poor social indicators, and the highest gender disparities in Pakistan. There has
been an improvement in both education and health indicators during the last decade (Table 1).
Enrollment rates have increased, infant mortality rate has dropped and child immunization also increased.
However, as in the rest of Pakistan, social indicators continue to be low. Thus, literacy and enrollment
continues to be low. More than                              Table 1: NWFPSoclallndicator
40% of children under two years                                                    iwo91        1998-99
of age are not fully immunized,      GrossmPam l bEnrolment(%s                       67           70
while    infant  mortality    and                   Male                             92           84
matemal mortality rates are still                   Female                           44           54
comparatively     high    despite   tnbntmol,t rateh(seres)
improvements.     A  major area                     Mae                              143          672
needing attention is the social                     Female                           116          57
Immunizston rte (%) for 12-23 months old children
and economic position of women              Overall, both sexes                      41           54
which remains weak in NWFP.                         Male                             50           52
Female                            31          56
Traditionally they occupied the      Dellvery by quallfied health peraonel (%)
private (as opposed to the public)          overal                                   29           46
Rural                             26          43
sphere of life and had limited                     Urban                              39          66
participation       in        the    Prweno, Armong (%) marfe women                   9           10
socioeconornic    development.'°                   Awareness                          42          92
socioeconomic  development..Opebonal Basic Heala Unib (BHUs) %)                    NA          85
TiMs is manifested    in  several    Household access to clean water (%)              43          53
indicators.   Female   enrolment    Sou e NWFP Scdal AcIon Prooram SAPP-II Midtrnm.
rates in primary education are
9 Literacy rates for population 15 years and above, for NWFP are lower compared to the average of Pakistan. While male
literacy rate compares well with Pakistan, female literacy is only 15% in NWFP compared to 27% in Pakistan (Annex B).
'0Data on social indicators varies considerably depending upon source. Efforts are underway to improve reliability of data. Girls
prinary enrollment rates increased during 1990-99 more rapidly than for boys. Immunization coverage increased only
marginally for boys, but nearly doubled for girls and now exceeds the male immunization rate.



- 6 -
around 54% while they are 84% for boys. Female literacy is reported to be only 15% in NWFP, about
half the national rate. Participation of women in the labor force is very low." In the recent local
government elections in NWFP, female voter participation was very low in some districts. Emnpowering
women is thus one of the most important challenges faced by the province.
15.    NWFP has a limited resource base. With around 13% of Pakistan's population, the estimated
per capita income of the province is around 30% lower than the average for Pakistan.'2 Historically, the
provincial economy has been mostly dependent on agriculture (livestock, timber, tobacco, horticultural
production), services, public employment especially in the armed forces, and low skilled workers
remittances from inside and outside the country. The province has been growing at a low rate for a
number of years while population has been fast increasing (including the influx of Afghan refugees)
which has led to depleting natural resources, stagnant remittances, and under development. NWFP has a
weaker resource base than other provinces, and value-added in agriculture and most industry is very low.
NWFP derives one-third of its income from largely traditional agriculture, far higher than for Pakistan as
a whole (Annex J), and is dependent on food grain produced in other provinces to feed its population.
16.    Much of NWFP's economic potential is unexploited. Much of the mineral wealth of the
province such as precious and semi-precious stones, marble, granite as well as the tourism potential
remains under exploited. The industrial base is limited, and attempts to expand industry by setting up
publicly-funded industrial estates have failed. However, there is a vibrant mnicro and small sector which
has led to exports from the province growing six times over the five years, from around US$30 million in
FY97 to around US$200 million in FY01. These exports consist of precious and semi-precious stones,
carpets and rugs and handicrafts. This export-oriented infornal small scale sector has the potential to
grow further under the provincial growth strategy and private sector development reforms. One of the
most abundant natural resource is river water, which is used for hydel electricity generation (e.g. from the
largest dam in Pakistan-the Tarbela dam). The province is, however, dependent on Water and Power
Development Authority (WAPDA) for the NFC mandated hydel generation profits. Since WAPDA has
been suffering losses for several years, NWFP has not been getting its agreed share of hydel profits.
Under the new strategy of encouraging small hydel generation plants, and development of off-grid
localized energy distribution from these plants, the province has the potential to attract industry by
offering them localized and inexpensive sources of energy. Improvements in human development, which
are part of the NWFP's reform strategy, would be another source of achieving productivity gains for the
province because of the large service economy and the tradition of labor migration from the province.
17.    The province's own revenues are low and its fiscal position has deteriorated during the 1990s.
Close to 90% of provincial receipts come from the federation (including WAPDA), reflecting the very
limited provincial tax base (Chart 4). Not only the tax base is small but also the taxes that the province
can levy are not buoyant. As a result of lower than envisaged federal fiscal transfers and hydel profits,
and inadequate tax base and efforts at raising own revenues, the province continued to run fiscal deficits
which were largely financed through expensive domestic loans from the federal government.'3  As a
result, the province continued to accumulate large and unsustainable debt, which, because of high debt
service, also made the longer-term fiscal position unsustainable. By the end of the 1990s, the provincial
debt service was claiming around 28% (FY00) of total receipts. Debt service, salaries and pensions,
claimed about 70% of total receipts, leaving little flexibility within the budget for other expenditures such
" Female participation in the labor force has been traditionally low in Pakistan because a large majority of women work at home
or are engaged in home-based activities and are not properly counted. According to the 1996/97 Labor Force Survey the
participation rate of women in NWFP is 9% compared to 18% in Punjab and 14% for Pakistan as a whole.
2 This is based on a study by the Planning and Development Department for 1996/97 and 1997/98. The absence of provincial
GDP estimates in Pakistan prevents doing growth analysis for NWFP.
13 Provinces can only finance deficits through loans/grants from federal government, and limited short term ways and means
loans from SBP.



as operational, maintenance, and development expenditures. As Table 2 shows, key fiscal indicators have
deteriorated since the mid-90s.
Chart 4: NWFP - Provincial Revenue & Its Uses
Resources                                     Uses of Resources
Pm.incbl
reeps                                     D  | .opmle <,nt,,.. . 
HydeJ profits                                                         * ***+ 18%   38
20%
ODiltServici
xm fl . X ! ldivisible  23%  .. .  , .*        Repair and
I |  . |   ponl & gmtn                          Maini nce
69%                                   Comoiiomd   2%
9%
Source: FinanceA Appropriation Accounts ofthe Government ofNWFPfor 1999/00A
Table 2: NWFP: Key Fiscal Indicatoms (%)
Mid 1990's        FY00
Debt Outstanding/Total Revenue                    114              209
Debt Servicingrrotal Revenue                       24              28
Development Expenditure/Total Expenditure          21              11
Repair & Maintenance/Current Expenditure            6               2
Source: GoNWFP Budget and Appropriation Accounts.
18.     The province's financial management has been weak. First, procurement rules and regulations
are outdated. The application of these is aggravated by the actual procedures and practices that have
grown up to thwart genuine competition for government business and to give officials wide latitude in
applying, ignoring or misusing the tangle of rules. This has resulted in inefficient procurement that lacks
transparency and provides little assurance of value for money. The legal and regulatory framework also
does not provide effective means for settling disputes or addressing the grievances of suppliers,
contractors, and consultants. Second, financial management has been weak and accountability and
internal control have suffered severe erosion. While systems and procedures were in place, these were
ignored leading to breakdown of internal controls, poor quality of public accounts and lack of
reconciliation of accounts.'4   The provincial Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and Departmental
Account Committees (DACs) were dysfunctional for over a decade. Successive governments had
introduced several layers of checks and balances-to try to reduce abuse-making financial release
procedures very time consuming and cumbersome.
Pakistan's financial accountability framework and accounting and auditing institutions are centralized and provinces mostly
follow Federal Govermment accounting and budgetary rules. Though there is no separate assessment of the provincial
accountability framework by the Bank, the desk review relating to the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),
undertaken in 2001, and diagnostic work during appraisal, reviewed provincial financial accountability issues and local
govemment financial accountability framework. It confirmed these findings. A full CFAA and PFAA are planned in FY03
(Details in Annex E).



- 8 -
m.   THE PROVINCIAL REFORM PROGRAM (PRP)
19.   At the time of taking over in 1999, the present Government of NWFP faced a number of serious
socioeconomnic issues, and daunting development challenges, including a stagnant economy; endemic
governance and breakdown of accountability within the government and to users; poor service delivery in
all major services; wasteful and inefficient expenditures; low tax potential and high dependence on
Federal fiscal transfers; and a rigid expenditure structure dominated by establishment costs, debt
servicing, and subsidies. It confronted a sense of despair and widespread perception among citizens that
government had become dysfunctional.
NWFP's Vision and Reform Strategy
20.    The Government started to address the multiple social and economic problems during 2000, with
varying degrees of success. Recognizing that many of the problems were interdependent and needed a
more systematic approach, the GoNWFP decided to develop a comprehensive reform program for the
province. For this purpose, it prepared a strategy document, the Provincial Reform Program (PRP) 2001-
2004, which was discussed extensively with various agencies, including the Bank. It was approved by the
NWFP Cabinet in June 2001. Several of the PRP reform measures were incorporated in the FY02 Budget
and reflected in the Budget White Paper and other documents. NWFP was the first province to embark
on such a comprehensive reform program. In line with the goals of the I-PRSP, the overarching objective
of the PRP'5 is to restore good governance and the respect for the rule of law, enhance effectiveness of
public expenditures, and reestablish the integrity of state institutions and their accountability to the public.
The PRP has the following four main pillars with strengthening governance to improve public service
delivery as the cross cutting theme:
* Governance reforms to achieve an efficient, accountable, and service oriented civil service;
*  Reforms to improve service delivery in key sectors (especially basic social services);
* Fiscal and financial management reforms to improve governance in budget and financial
management, adopt a medium term budget framework (MTBF), enhance effectiveness and
accountability of expenditures, and strengthen resource mobilization; and
*  Establishing an effective and transparent enabling environment for private sector development to
accelerate economic growth.
21.    Post September 11 events reinforced the view that a prosperous and stable NWFP is critical to
Pakistan's campaign against violent militancy. In addition, there is a consensus among the policy makers
and civil society that a more literate and healthy population would enhance job opportunities within and
outside the province, and mitigate the risks for extremism. Recently, the Government of Pakistan,
together with the governments of NWFP and Balochistan, has initiated preparation of a federally funded
development program to address the under development of the areas bordering Afghanistan. The
majority of the populated border areas fall in NWFP. These areas are among the poorest in NWFP, and
the program is intended to provide resources for physical infrastructure, social services, and income
generating activities. Moreover, the Federal and the NWFP government have also formulated a long term
program to mainstream the tribal areas-politically, legally and constitutionally-with the rest of the
country. This would be a historic step-to correct an anomaly of over one hundred years.
22.   In preparing the PRP, the government held extensive consultations. However, it has not so far
discussed and / or disseminated the PRP program to the new District Nazims, Councilors, and district
officials, waiting for them to settle down in their new roles. It intends to initiate the dialogue with the
new district governments to ensure that the detailed sectoral strategies and investment programs contained
15 The PRP will form the core of the proposed provincial PRSP that would be developed as part of the full PRSP.



in the PRP fully reflect the district government priorities, and to engender ownership of the reform
objectives.
A.   STRENGTHENING ACCOUNTABILrrY AND PROFESSIONALISM OF STATE INSTITUTIONS
23.    Decades of neglect and decay took their toll on governance in the province, as in the rest of the
country. The result has been excessive staff, poor compensation (especially at higher levels), declining
quality of civil servants, over-centralization of decision-making, complaints of widespread corruption and
malfeasance, poor management systems, and cumbersome and costly procedures. These are complex
issues which would take a long time to address. The GoNWFP has therefore drawn a phased and realistic
program to achieve its objectives in this area (Details in Annex H).
Devolution and Civil Service Reforms
24.    Objectives and Strategy. The objectives of the devolution and civil service reforms are to
increase the efficiency of government operations, make them more accountable to users, effective in
delivering public services, and raise the level of competence and integrity of government officials.
Government strategy to achieve these objectives is to fully implement the devolution of power,
decentralize functions and operations, reduce staff at the provincial level, tighten the system of
accountability, reorganize functions and departments at the provincial level, improve recruitment and
make promotions more performance based, simplify procedures, and computerize business process.
25.    Recent Reforms.   The restructuring and rightsizing of provincial government, including
administrative and operational aspects of the Devolution, have been largely completed. In regards to
devolution, the required staff (around 200,000 out of total 280,000 provincial employees) have been
assigned to district governments,16 and district budgeting and most other non-policy functions have been
transferred to the districts. The district Rules of Business have been prepared, training of elected
representatives and staff has been instituted, local government contract rules have been notified, and
district accounts have been established. In regards to rightsizing, the GoNWFP has restructured 26
provincial departments, merging several departments, closing autonomous bodies and several specialized
agencies, thus streamnlining and downsizing the departmental structure and re-focusing it according to new
functions. Consequently on the basis of identified redundancies, over 6,000 employees have been placed
in a surplus pool, many of whom have been assigned to districts. In addition, the number of ministerial
level positions have been reduced from around 40 to 10.
26.    Recruitment, promotion, and transfer policies have been revised and the key institution managing
them strengthened. The provincial Public Service Commission (PSC) has been strengthened and made
more autonomous, through appropriate changes in its legislation and government's administrative and
Financial Rules. The PSC has been made fully responsible for all recruitment of officials of officer grade.
Institutional mechanisms have been put in place to make recruitment and promotion merit- and
performance-based. The existing contract employment policy is being revised with a view to maldng all
task- and location-specific positions subject to contract employment. The Government is continuing its
freeze on new hiring, except for social sector delivery staff such as teachers; and the compulsory
retirement rules have been amended to facilitate retiring of redundant or incompetent officials.
27.    Far reaching Judicial Reforms have been initiated. The judicial and executive functions have
been legally separated. The judiciary has been made autonomous in matters of recruitment of judicial
officials and financial aspects, which is a significant step in enhancing the independence of the judiciary.
16 Eventually most of these staff would become district government employees. For now they are provincial employees, but their
postings and performance evaiuation is now done by district governments.



- 10-
28.    Several institutional reforms and capacity building programs have been initiated. These include:
(i) the Essential Institutional Reform Operationalization Project (EIROP) funded by UNDP, SDC and
GTZ, was initiated in March 2001 to assist with Human Resource (HR) and institutional reform and
support capacity building and training at the district level. The EIROP will be implemented over three
years; (ii) with DFID support, a training program for the new elected representatives and officials has
been launched at district and lower levels. In phase I, all union councilors were trained. A special
program of training women councilors is planned shortly. The government has started training of district
government functionaries'in Financial Management, Budgeting, and Development Planning. It has also
launched a program of IT training; and (iii) cognizant of the huge capacity building needs, especially to
implement the PRP and the expanded social sector programs, the government has initiated a review of
unmet capacity needs. It has already decided to establish the Education and Health Sector Reforms Units,
the Budget Analysis Unit, and the overall Economic Reforms Unit. In addition, the government has
approved a comprehensive three year capacity building program to strengthen the managerial and
technical capacity of provincial and district officials.
29.    Medium-Term Reforms. Over the medium term, the Government plans to continue to implement
the reformns under way and further intensify them. Among the planned actions are: (i) implementing the
expanded capacity building program; (ii) developing a HR database using computerized payroll data and
by conducting a civil servants census; (iii) reviewing and adjusting the restructuring, downsizing, and
personnel management measures; (iv) strengthening district government staffing and staff training; (v)
completing district rules of business and codes; (vi) establishing courts for small causes and family
disputes; (vii) establishing public safety and accountability commissions/offices at the provincial and
district levels; (viii) appointing separate senior officials to handle public complaints against officials; and
(ix) establishing a Local Government Commission to oversee performance of district governments. The
ongoing and planned reforms are expected to have a significant impact in terms of increasing the
efficiency, effectiveness, and integrity of the civil service, as well as making it more responsive to
people's needs through devolution and administrative decentralization.
Anti-Corruption Initiatives
30.    The government has moved aggressively on anti-corruption by sending a clear signal that no one
is above the law, and taking steps to reduce corruption in the future. Anti-corruption rules have been
simplified to make disciplinary actions easier to implement. Better enforcement has resulted in the
initiation of 2240 disciplinary cases since 1999 (compared to a. similar number in the last decade), over
half of which have been decided. In addition, it has dismissed or suspended about 300 education
department employees (including teachers) for negligence and prolonged absence from duties.
31.    The drive by National Accountability Bureau (NAB) against past high profile corruption has also
sent a very powerful message that poor governance practices will be punished. In NWFP alone, NAB has
investigated and is prosecuting several high profile provincial politicians and public officials, including
14, ex-ministers and 36 high level bureaucrats accused of being involved in corrupt practices and abuse of
office (e.g., political appointments of teachers).
B.   ACCELERATING HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
32.    A major thrust of the Government's reform effort is to improve the delivery of human
development services to turn around the current situation and have a lasting impact on productivity,
equity, poverty, and social support system. These efforts are in tandem and complementary to the
financial and governance reforms that would have a positive impact on improved delivery of various
government services, through increased resources, efficiency, and responsiveness of the system. The
important reforms in the delivery of social services and delivery of community infrastructure services are
discussed below.



Education
33.    The education indicators in the province are still relatively low (Annex F), the main reasons for
which are: inadequate financial resources; physical inaccessibility of many areas; poorly trained and ill-
paid teachers; general decay in educational standards in the country; inadequate supply of instructional
materials in schools; poor physical facilities in schools; weak accountability, institutional capacity and
management of the educational system; and lack of conmmunity involvement in school affairs.
34.    Objectives and Strategy. The Provincial Reform Program has made educational improvement the
foundation for achieving longer-term economnic development and poverty alleviation in the province. In
all public speeches the Governor reiterates his personal commitment to education, stating that "education
is the first priority, second priority and third priority of the government". The Government's medium-
term objectives in the sector are to: (i) improve primary education (both enrollment and quality of
instruction); (ii) reduce gender and rural-urban disparities; and (iii) expand the capacity at the secondary
school level. These objectives will be achieved by increasing resource allocation to the sector, allocating
more resources to female education, upgrading the quality of instruction and teacher training, improving
the management structure, implementing devolution, and increasing community and private sector
involvement. In May 2002, the government approved a comprehensive medium-term reform program,
which builds upon and strengthens the reform program developed in 2001 under the PRP and reflects
higher budgetary allocations included in the MTBF for FY03-05.
35.    Recent Reforms. The highest priority is being given to improving quality and access by taking
the following measures: (i) approving a comprehensive province-wide staff and facility rationalization
plan which would serve as a basis for needs-based recruitment, rationalization of facilities to reduce
inefficiencies, and redeployment to ensure every primary school meets the targeted teacher student ratio
of 1:40. As part of this rationalization plan, recruitment for 2,100 additional teachers has been approved
for immediate deployment to schools without adequate teachers; (ii) addressing teacher absenteeism by
deploying teachers to their home districts and facility-specific contract recruitmnent; (iii) introducing a
results-based teacher evaluation and reward system and initiating a province-wide periodic student
assessment system as part of the National Education Assessment System (NEAS), which would be fully
funded in the FY03 budget; (iv) strengthening of teacher training programs; (v) the institutional and
management reforms comprising bifurcation of the provincial education department into lower and higher
level education; (vi) creating separate teaching and management cadres, the latter is meant to establish a
professional school managerial cadre; (vii) introducing computer literacy and English-medium instruction
on a pilot basis; (viii) introducing textbook deregulation for Classes 9-12, and developing a road map for
expanding this initiative to the primary sector, to allow for more efficient and competitive printing and
publishing of text books; (ix) establishing clear criteria for the establishment/construction of primary
schools and upgradation of schools, in order to strengthen transparency of decision making and ensure
that decisions are in line with sector goals; and (x) establishing an Education Sector Reform Unit and
staffing it to monitor and oversee progress in implementation of reforms.
36.    Public-private partnerships and community involvement is being encouraged through: (i)
initiating a program to encourage private sector to use unoccupied government buildings for establishing
schools; (ii) restructuring the Frontier Education Foundation which supports NGOs providing education,
to make it autonomous and expand its activities to promote public-private partnership with adequate
linkages with the Departrnents of Education; (iii) strengthening parent-teacher associations (PTAs) in
almost all 20,000 primary schools; and (iv) providing funds for instructional materials and minor repair
(IM&R) to individual schools through the PTAs.
37.    The monitoring and supervisory mechanisms have been strengthened. Circle Teams have been
designated to carry out field visits every two weeks to monitor absenteeism and availability of inputs at
the facility level based on the new monitoring forms. The reports are reviewed monthly at the district



- 12-
level, and will now be reviewed quarterly by the Education Minister. The government views these steps
as supplementing the citizen/community oversight and accountability arrangements built into the
devolution plan. These are viewed as the only sustainable and effective way to monitor agency
performance. In addition, the Education Management Information System (EMIS) would be fully funded
in the regular budget, starting in FY03.
38.    Steps have been taken to reduce gender disparity. The FY02 budget allocated 70% of the
sector's development budget to girls' schools, and innovative incentive schemes are being developed to
increase girls' enrollment. A major primary school facility up-gradation program is being initiated to
ensure that essential missing physical facilities (such as toilets, boundary walls, electricity) are provided
to 100% of girls schools by end-FY03.
39.    The allocation for education has been increased significantly. Expenditures on education have
increased by 27% from Rs. 6.9 billion in FY99 to Rs. 8.8 billion in FY01. Expenditures have been
reallocated toward primary and secondary education and vocational training (including teacher training)
and away from tertiary and university education. User charges from higher education, which have
historically been very low, were increased by around 20% in FY01.
40.    Medium-Term Reforms. Over the medium term, the Government plans to take the following
actions: (i) increase allocations by over 75% from Rs. 8.5 billion in FY02 to Rs. 14.7 billion in FY05,
including increasing instructional materials and minor repair allocations several folds; (ii) complete the
management reforms to implement the process of district-based management, separation of teaching and
management staff, and training of staff; (iii) complete the teacher redeployment, and facility
rationalization based on the approved staff and facility rationalization plan; (iv) expand school capacity in
partnership with the private sector and communities and continue the strengthening of PTAs; (v) provide
essential physical facilities in all primary schools, especially for girls, and continue the policy of larger
allocation of development funds for girls' schools; (vi) deployment of teachers in home districts and
location-based new recruitment, and in-service teacher training; (vii) consolidate performance-based
teacher evaluation and compensation, and the province-wide student assessment system; (viii) continue
textbook de-regulation; (ix) expand secondary school capacity, PTAs for secondary schools, and school
facilities for computer literacy; (x) establish primary schools in seriously deficient districts; (xi) further
increase in higher education user charges; and (xii) continue to strengthen the monitoring and supervision
system including the commissioning of a regular third party user and facility survey in October 2002, and
annually thereafter, for independent monitoring of, among others, service delivery indicators.
41.    The impact of these wide-ranging reforms is expected to be substantial. By the end of FY05, the
overall primary school enrolment is expected to increase by 15%, with girls' enrolment increasing by
30%." By the end of FY03, 100% of girls' schools would have basic physical facilities (such as toilets
and boundary walls), and 100% of boys' schools will achieve the target by end of FY05. Serious gaps in
school capacity in remote areas would have been remedied. The quality of teachers, instruction, and
student achievement are also expected to be significantly higher by FY05.
Health
42.    Underlying the low level of health indicators are inadequate and uneven availability of primary
health facilities, poorly staffed and stocked clinics, unplanned expansion of facilities, inadequate
allocations which are heavily skewed towards the tertiary health care, and high incidence of preventable
diseases.
17 Traditionally, the govemment has tracked gross enrollment rates. With the introduction of MICS and strengthening of EMIS,
NWFP will start tracking net enrollment rates from FY04.



- 13 -
43.    Objectives and Strategy. The objective in the health sector is to significantly improve health
indicators in the province over the medium term. The Government's strategy, prepared in consultation
with stakeholders, is to improve the management structure, reorganize health facilities, with a multi-level
referral system, focus on preventive and primary health care, remove obvious gaps in facilities, increase
budgetary allocations as well as user charges, and increase reliance on the private sector with adequate
regulation. The reform program, including, actions already implemented, is summarized below with
details in Annex G.
44.    Recent Reforms.  The Health Care and Hospital System Management Reforms have been
initiated. The Department of Health has been restructured in line with the Devolution initiative with a
substantive shift of staff and resources to the districts. A management cadre has been created, and the
separate male/female cadres of doctors have been merged. A Health Sector Reform unit has been
established to strengthen capacity for planning and monitoring the reform process. Plans are being
formulated, on a district basis, to rationalize health service delivery and facilities aimed at developing a
graded and referral based system with appropriate staffing norms. A pilot is under implementation in one
district to rationalize facility and serve as the basis for wider replication. Rationalization studies are
underway in 13 other districts. All tertiary hospitals have been given financial and administrative
autonomy with the aim of achieving financial self-sufficiency in three years, while plans are being
developed to protect access of the poor through safety nets. A hospital management system is being
developed to improve cost effectiveness and efficiency of public hospitals. A three year program has
been approved to engage more female nurses to meet acute shortages at the district and sub-district
hospitals. And finally, facility-specific contracts have been introduced to reduce absenteeism.
45.    Communicable Disease Control and Maternal Health Programs have been strengthened. A
program to expand the coverage of immunization under the Global Alliance for Vaccination Initiative
(GAVI) has been approved. This expanded program includes support for activities such as monitoring,
staff development, and cold chain improvement which are all expected to improve coverage of
immunization. The Hepatitis B vaccination has been initiated in three districts and province-wide
coverage will begin in FY03. A provincial task force, chaired by the Governor, for polio elimination has
been overseeing an aggressive campaign against polio. Polio cases have been reduced from 57 in FY00
to 28 in FY01. An intensive campaign for Tr immunization of pregnant women in 15 high risk areas,
with involvement of Lady Health Workers (LHWs), was initiated in August 2001. A plan to recruit 1800
additional LHWs has been approved, and their role and that of paramedics is being expanded to include
nutritional and reproductive health education. Finally, the TB DOTS program has been revitalized in 5
districts covering 20 percent of the population.
46.    Allocations for health sector have also been increased from Rs. 1.7 billion in FY99 to Rs 1.9
billion in FY01. More emphasis has been given to expenditures on primary health care and mother and
child care where the expenditures have increased by 8% compared to a 2% overall increase in health
expenditures during this period.
47.    Medium-Term Reforms. As health sector reforms have been initiated in all the important areas,
the emphasis in the medium term will be on consolidation and strengthening. In particular, the
Government plans to focus on the following activities: (i) strengthening the Reform Unit, capacity and
training of the district staff, and the hospital management system; (ii) reviewing the experience of the
pilot project for a graded referral system and replicate it in other districts; (iii) expanding the use of
LHWs and paramedics as the frontline health workers and continue location-specific
recruitment/deployment of health workers; (iv) augmenting public health services in partnership with the
private sector and local communities; (v) implementing phased increases in user charges and putting in
place an effective safety net for the poor; (vi) expanding the coverage of communicable disease control
programs of immunization, TB DOTS, and of reproductive health services; (vii) increasing total



- 14-
expenditures by 120% to Rs.4.3 billion in FY 05, with higher allocation for primary care; and (viii)
monitoring the impact of reforms through periodic MICS and third party surveys.
48.    As a result of the above reforms, there would be a substantial increase in the coverage, efficiency,
and quality of health service delivery. Thus it is projected that coverage by FY05 would increase from
the present (FY02) as follows: (i) immunization coverage of children under two years of age would
increase from 54% to 80%; (ii) immunization coverage of pregnant women (two doses of TT) would
increase from 34% to 45%; (iii) percentage of population with access to TB DOTS would increase from
20% to full coverage; (iv) the number of polio cases would be brought to zero; and, (v) the number of
LHWs would be increased from 7,800 to 14,000, resulting in an increase in coverage of primary health
care and family planning services from the current 37% to 75% of the population. The systemic changes
being made would make the provincial health system leaner, decentralized, sufficiently self-financed, cost
effective, and responsive to the needs of local communities.
Women's Development
49.    Progress in this area has been going on for many years. Women are increasingly receiving
education, participating in many professions and businesses, and playing an active role in politics.
However, the Government realizes that it has to sharpen and strengthen its focus on this important
development issue to fully utilize its human resources. The Government's strategy in this regard is two-
fold. First, in each of the sectoral reform areas, especially in the crucial education sector, concerted
efforts are being made to reduce gender disparity. Also access to maternal and family planning services is
being increased. Second, the Department of Women Development has under implementation several
schemes, partly with support from the private sector and local communities, to promote skill development
among women and provide temporary shelter, a crisis center, and free legal assistance for women in
distress. The Government plans to expand these activities through public-private partnership, community
help, and NGOs' assistance. A Provincial Steering Committee, including civil society members, would
oversee these activities, and provide a vehicle to raise people's awareness of the needs and rights of
women.
Urban Services, Water Supply, and Sanitation
50.    The devolution has provided an opportunity to address key institutional constraints, which have
historically hindered the delivery of urban services, especially to the poor. Using this opportunity,
GoNWFP has: consolidated various service delivery agencies (Communications & Works and Public
Health Engineering Department) with fragmented and overlapping service provision mandates;
transferred functions and organizations to the local governments (including the Urban Development
Authorities); and instituted special arrangements for the main urban center, the Peshawar City District. A
regulatory body will be established for the urban water sector at the provincial level. The GoNWFP has
nurtured an enabling environment for participatory development and has spearheaded Community Driven
Development initiatives throughout the province. The Bank's Community Infrastructure Project in NWFP
has been a success story to the extent that a follow-on operation is being planned. The Province is also
the first in the country to start the development of an integrated and participatory strategic plan at a city
district level, which is likely to provide a model for a comprehensive development framework for the
newly formed district governments. The Government intends to examine the need for any further
streamlining of agencies in this sector, adopting a uniform policy for community participation and
responsibility, and upgrading the management and technical capability of the local government urban
services institutions.



- 15 -
C.   IMPROVING FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY AND RESTORING FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY
Fiscal and Expenditure Reforms
51.    Objectives and Strategy. To expand fiscal resources for meeting its growing development and
service needs, the GoNWFP has adopted a comprehensive medium-term fiscal strategy. This includes: (i)
increasing provincial revenues through further tax reform and accelerating user charge increases and
saving interest payments through better debt management; (ii) divesting inessential activities; (iii)
implementing fiscal devolution; (iv) improving budgetary process, financial management, procurement
process and transparency; (v) strengthening the audit oversight arrangements; and (vi) formulating a
medium term budget framework. The key medium term pillar of fiscal adjustment is on expenditure
management and increasing non-tax revenues and user charges, given the low immediate potential for
enhancing taxes.
52.    Recent Reforms. The Government has started implementing the above strategy and has already
taken actions in key areas as discussed below:
53.   Implementation offiscal decentralization has begun at the provincial level. In anticipation of the
devolution of powers, the province prepared the initial district budgets for FY02. Local governments are
preparing their own budgets for FY03, and the needed staff has been re-assigned to the districts. Starting
in FY02, the province began allocating certain development funds across districts based on clear criteria,
including population and indicators of social development and backwardness. NWFP is the first province
to have used a needs-based formula for budgetary transfers to the districts.
54.    Revenue measures are being implemented to strengthen revenue mobilization. The tax reforms
include reducing and restructuring provincial taxes; imposing of income-based agricultural income tax to
complement the province's land-based tax (unlike the other provinces the land tax in NWFP is applied to
all landholdings without exemptions); outsourcing of collection of motor vehicle tax and harmonization of
rates with other provinces; and restructuring and expanding of the base of the Urban Property Tax from
18 to 27 rating areas. Moreover, enhancement and rationalization of user charges has been initiated,
especially for economic and tertiary-level social services. Irrigation water rates (abiana) are being
increased by 25% each year. Higher user charges for roads and tertiary health and education services are
also planned, beginning in FY03.
55.   Expenditures have been reprioritized to improve composition and strengthen expenditure
management. The development program was rationalized. Over the last two years, the number of
ongoing projects has been reduced by two-thirds, from 1125 to 375 projects; as a result the "throw-
forward" of fiscal liabilities to complete ongoing projects was also reduced by 62% from Rs.24 billion to
Rs.9 billion. Throw-forward now is around 100% of the annual development program compared to more
than 300% a few years ago. The share of development expenditure in total expenditures has increased
from an average of 10-15% during FY98-01 to 25% in FY02. The GoNWFP has reduced the wheat
subsidy from Rs. 2.7 billion in FY99 to Rs. 1 billion in FY02. A number of public enterprises and
autonomous bodies have been closed, which would save around Rs.70-100 million annually.
56.   Budget formulation and monitoring has improved. Unlike past practices, the government is no
longer permitting spending commitments to be made against net hydel profits above the capped amount
of Rs 6 billion. It has also programmed expenditures assuming a shortfall of around 5% in federal tax
*transfers to NWFP. The GoNWFP has also instituted several reforns in the preparation, processing, and
execution of the budget including: posting fiscal data on the web; economic classification of expenditures
in budget documents; introducing a mid-term review; computerizing budget preparation; establishing a
new schedule for timely release of funds; and establishing a professionally staffed Budget Analysis Unit,
to start functioning in early FY03.



- 16-
57.    Budget Outcome for FY02 is on track. During the first 9 months of FY02, provincial tax
collection is well on track to meet the budget targets mainly due to higher collection of electricity duty;
collections of other taxes are also consistent with the budget. Collection of user charges add up to 65
percent of the budgeted amount despite lower collection of 'abiana' on account of drought. Federal tax
transfers have been slightly lower than anticipated due to lower collections at the federal level. However,
transfer of hydel profits, up until May, were only Rs. 1.7 billion out of the 'capped' Rs.6 billion for the
year. Substantial federal grants for the Khushal Pakistan Program and subvention have offset some of the
shortfalls in total revenue receipts. On the expenditure side, partly reflecting revenue shortfalls and
transitional disruptions due to devolution, total expenditure is just above 60 percent of the budgeted
amount for the whole year. Expenditures have picked up in the fourth quarter, now that procedural
bottlenecks to transfer of funds to the districts have been resolved.
58.    A Medium-Term Budgetary Framework (MTBF) has been formulated. The province has prepared
an MTBF for FY03-05 to adopt a framework for improving the allocation of resources and planning for
priority development expenditures over the medium term. Table 3 and Annex D show the provincial
MTBF approved by the Cabinet of GoNWFP, which has been predicated on the following broad
assumptions. First, the existing National Finance Commission formula has been assumed for planning
purposes. Second, the resources accruing from hydel profits transfers to NWFP from WAPDA have been
projected at the capped amount of Rs. 6 billion per year. Lastly, provincial revenue buoyancy
assumptions have been taken at very conservative levels to avoid unrealistic projections.
59.    The Government expects that, as a result of the revenue and expenditure reforms underway and
proposed under MTBF, additional fiscal space generated will be approximately Rs.2.6 billion/year, about
5-6 percent of total expenditures. Over the next three years, the provincial efforts are conservatively
expected to generate Rs.7.8 billion in additional spending capacity. This will be achieved through first,
increasing provincial "own revenue" mobilization, as follows: (a) increasing non-tax revenues, of which
user charges are forecast to rise by over 75% by FY05; (b) increasing provincial tax revenues, which are
projected to grow by 15% in FY03 and 10% each during FY04 and FY05.18 The collection of agriculture
income tax (AIT) will be strengthened. This is conservatively estimated to raise Rs. 60 million in the first
year, and gradually increase thereafter. Implementation difficulties are anticipated given the need for
improved land surveys, limited collection capacity, and the need for imnprovement in local tax
administration. However, the reform effort has a very important longer term role to play through closing
a major loophole for tax evasion, reducing a major distortion that has been politically difficult to tackle,
and creating a vehicle for local taxation that has a significant potential. It is expected that over a five to
ten year period this could become a far more significant revenue source. Second, withdrawal of the
poorly targeted and ineffective wheat subsidy is expected to generate about Rs.1.5 billion (50% of own
revenue) each year in savings. In future, only allocations for management costs of strategic stocks will be
made. Third, expensive debt of around Rs. 6 billion will be retired over FY03-05. This will save the
province about Rs.1.0 billion over three years and reduce the share of interest payments in total
expenditures from 17% at present to 10% in FY05.
is Despite the generally non-buoyant nature of provincial "own revenue" sources, the projected increases are significant
especially for FY03. However the increase does not show up in the rounded off ratios (as % of provincial GDP), Table 3,
because of their relatively small size. In any case the base for estimating the ratio, provincial GDP, is not very reliable. The
targets for FY04 and FY05 have been conservatively estimated (taking into account recent trends, administrative capacity and
simultaneous measures to increase national taxes) and will be re-evaluated based on the results of the study of the provincial tax
potential, which is planned to be completed prior to formulation of FY04 budget.



- 17 -
Table 3: NWFP: Summary of Medium-Term Budget FY01 to FY0S
(Rs. Million)
ProJectons
FYO1       FY02
Federal Transfers                      30262      33003      34116      37022      40248
Federal tax assignment                18573      19550      21700      24087      26937
Subventon grant                        3828       4249       4716       5235       6011
Hydel profits from WAPDA               6000       6000       6000       6000       6000
Other grants                           1862       3204       1700       1700       1700
Provincial Resources                    3948       3777       4374       4742       5136
Provincial taxes                       1360       1408       1624       1784       1945
User Charges                            988       1066       1457       1665       1898
Non-tax & Capital ReceIpts             1601       1303       1293       1293       1293
Total Receipts                         34523      37144      38861       42143      46170
Current Expenditure                    30278      30196      32980       34347      35908
of which:Sodal services               10442      10282      11308      12385      13517
Interest payments                     7151        7009       6628       5944       5328
Subsidies                              1450       1000          0          0          0
Development Expenditure                 5898      10413      11754       13987      16299
of whilch:Sodal services                686        720       3687       4819       5560
Total expenditure                      36247      40608      44734      48333       52207
Overall Defilcit                       -1724      -3465       -5873       6191      -6037
Financing                               1724       3465       5873        6191       6037
Foreign Project Assistance (net)        1564       3324       3748       4194        4502
Other finandng items'                    160        141       -1175      -1303      -1365
Cash development loan (CDL)               0           0       -2100      -2100      -2100
Proposed World Bank Finandng              0           0       5400        5400       5000
Share In Total Expenditures
Current Expenditure                      83.5       74.4       73.7       71.1       68.8
Interest payments                      19.7       17.3       14.8        12.3       10.2
Development Expenditure                  16.3       25.6       26.3       28.9       31.2
Total sodal sector                       30.7       27.1       31.2       33.5       35.3
of which: Educaton                       24.3       21.0       24.3       25.9       28.1
Health                             6.0        6.1        6.7        7.4        7.1
In Percent of Provincial GDP
Federal Tax Assignment                    5.4        5.3        5.4        5.4        5.6
Provincial Taxes                          0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4        0.4
Non-tax Receipts                          2.3        2.1        2.0        1.9        1.8
of which: Hydel Profits                   1.7        1.6        1.5        1.4        1.2
User Charges                      0.3        0.3         0.4        0.4        0.4
Grants                                    1.7        2.1        1.7        1.6        1.7
Total Recelpts                            9.9       10.0        9.6        9.5        9.5
Current Expenditure                       8.7        8.2        8.2        7.8        7.4
Development Expenditure                   1.7        2.8        2.9        3.2        3.4
Overall defidt                           -0.5       -0.9       -1.5       -1.4       -1.2
Total Sodal Sector Expenditure.           3.2        3.0        3.5        3.7         3.8
Source: Government of NWFP, Staff estimates.
Comprse the aggregate total of: Ways and Means Advances, Public Accounts (net) and repayment of domestic loans.
2 Since provincial GDP data are unreliable, these ratios are only indicative



- 18-
60.    As a result of fiscal restructuring, the share of current expenditures will fall from 74% of total
spending in FY02 to 69% in FY05, with a corresponding increase in development expenditure. The
expenditures on priority social sectors-mainly education and health-will increase from 27% of total
expenditures in FY02 to 35% in FY05.19 It is expected that with the implementation of its fiscal strategy,
the province would have a more sustainable fiscal position, and, together with institutional reforms, an
improved public service delivery.
61.    To complement efforts to generate their own resources, the GoNWFP is seeking financial
assistance from the Bank, for support of its broad based development efforts and restructuring of the
provincial fiscal accounts. As a result of the projected borrowings from the Bank, the GoNWFP's total
outstanding debt will increase from Rs. 73 billion in FY02 to Rs. 95 billion FY05, but total debt service
(including principal) will decline from Rs.8.6 billion to Rs.7.8 billion over the same period due to lower
interest payments. As a proportion of the government's receipts, total debt service will decline from 23%
in FY02 to 17% in FY05.
62.    Medium-Term   Reforms. The medium-term   reforms focus on   efforts to strengthen
implementation of revenue and expenditure reforms consistent with the MTBF, and include further
improvement of revenue mobilization to achieve a sustainable fiscal positi6n, and enhanced funding for
social services to meet medium term target outcomes. In addition, the GoNWFP aims to further
strengthen budget processing and monitoring, including computerization, increasing the coverage of fiscal
data posted on the web, and program and performance budgeting. The permanent Provincial Finance
Commission would be established to institutionalize fiscal decentralization and review on an ongoing
basis fiscal performance of the districts. In addition the government will be undertaking a study on tax
potential which will be completed during FY03, to provide the provincial government with the analysis
and recommendations on further tax measures for the FY04 budget. A medium term plan will be
developed, during FY03, for the modernization and strengthening of AIT collection and processing. Also
an agreement would be reached with the Federal Bureau of Statistics, and funding provided, to collect
reliable provincial economic data.
Financial Management and Accountability
63.    Financial management and accountability issues are at the center of the NWFP Government's
reform program. Improvement in fiscal management, quality of public accounts, public accountability,
and procurement are among the key reform targets. The GoNWFP has taken the following actions to
strengthen and improve financial management. (Details are in Annex E).
64.    The Fiscal Monitoring Committee (FMC) and the Departmental Account Committees (DA Cs) are
fully functioning. The Provincial FMC has been functioning adequately and has done a good job.
According to the provincial AG, for FY01, 100% of NWFP's provincial receipts and 100% of
expenditures were reconciled, compared to only 50-60% a few years ago. This was a good achievement
compared with past experience and the situation in other provinces. Reconciliation between the AG and
the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) have improved substantially and the amounts in suspense are now
insignificant, with the re-introduction of next day reconciliation between the DAOs and the SBP/National
Bank of Pakistan. Unlike the past when DACs were infrequently held, the DACs are now being held
regularly as per the schedule provided by the AG's office. In FY01 and FY02, 100% of the DACs were
held.
19 In education: from an annual average of Rs.0.5 billion (FY98 - 02) of development expenditures to an annual average of
Rs.2.9 billion during FY03-05; and in health: from Rs.200 million annual average, during FY98-02, to annual average of Rs.0.9
billion during FY03-05.



- 19-
65.    The accounting capacity is being strengthened as follows: (i) NWFP will appoint in early FY03 a
Provincial Financial Controller in its Department of Finance to lead financial management reforms. The
Controller's main task will be to implement financial management and public financial accountability
reforms. In addition, the Controller will be responsible for: (a) accounting and financial reporting (jointly
with the provincial AG); (b) developing provincial capacity to handle accounting and payroll; (c)
preparing program to strengthen internal controls, internal audit, and financial policies and procedures;
and (d) assisting agencies respond to audit observations and systemic issues; and (ii) the position of the
District Accounting Officers-the linchpin in the accounting systems-are being upgraded to
professionally manage the accounts under the newly devolved fiscal authority. The province has decided
to upgrade, for all major districts, these DAO positions to officer grade to attract qualified staff. They
will induct younger and better trained staff at this critical first tier accounting management position.
66.   A Public Accounts Committee (PAC) has been formed. The functioning of the ad-hoc PAC in
NWFP was delayed due to a High Court ruling against it. This judgment has recently been rescinded,
and the Committee formed in end-May 2002. The Governor has requested the PAC to review past audit
reports on last-in first-out basis and open all Committee meetings to the public. It is expected that PAC
will be made a fully functioning agency with the province taking prompt action on its recommendations.
67.    Fund Release Procedures for Development and Non-salary Funding for Priority Sectors have
been Streamlined. For the development budget, 50% of releases are now made each in July and January.
In case of non-development expenditures, releases are being made as follows: 10% in July, 40% in
August, 40% in January, with remaining 10% kept as contingency.
68.    The Overall Legal and Regulatory Frameworkfor Procurement is being improved starting with
the approval of a new Procurement Ordinance to simplify processes, increase competition and
transparency, and introduce a code of ethics.20 Thereafter, during FY03, detailed rules and regulations
would be notified, the existing Purchase Manual revised, and standard bidding documents introduced.
69.    The General Provident and Pension Funds have been Established. In order to better manage the
government's deferred liabilities, the GoNWFP has established a separate General Provident Fund and a
Pension Fund outside the Provincial Consolidated Fund. At present the General Provident Fund has a
total deposit of Rs. 3 billion, against the present total deferred liability of Rs. 6 billion. The Pension Fund
presently has deposits of Rs 1.6 billion against the current pension liability of Rs. 2.5 - 3 billion per
annum. The government has been increasing the capital of the Pension and Provident Funds in the last
two years and intends to continue this during FY03-05, depending upon resource availability. The
amounts placed in these Funds are invested in approved fixed income securities and the interest income
generated is ploughed back into the respective Funds.
70.   In addition to above measures, the GoNWFP has recently approved a Financial Management
Reform Program. This program provides a broad framework, a road map for its implementation and
benchmarks (Annex E). It has been agreed with the GoNWFP that a detailed Provincial Financial
Accountability Assessment (PFAA) is to be conducted jointly by the Bank and the GoNWFP by
December 2002. This assessment will cover accountability issues for all tiers of government in the
province. Based on the findings of the PFAA, a more comprehensive short, medium, and long term
financial management reform action plan will be prepared and agreed between the Bank and the
GoNWFP.
71.    Supplementing the provincial efforts, the Bank supported project for strengthening accounting
and financial reporting is also being implemented at the provincial level. Under the project, the adoption
of the New Accounting Model and computerization of government accounting system will have a positive
20 The NWFP Governor approved enactmnent of the Ordinance on May 30, 2002.



- 2Q -
impact on the reliability and timeliness of provincial accounts. By December 2003, all of the District
Accounting Offices (DAOs) will be computerized and linked to the provincial Accountant General's
(AG's) Office and the Finance Department.
D.     PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
72.    The PRP correctly emphasizes that not only accelerating growth is key to poverty reduction but
also the private sector has to be the engine of this growth. It has developed strategies to improve the
business environment, enhance productivity of agriculture, reduce the role of the public sector in
commercial and industrial activities, and promote public-private partnerships. Reforms to improve the
efficiency of the province's infrastructure, including irrigation facilities, road and urban infrastructure and
services, and environmental protection would also support the growth process. However, the PRP's
present growth-enhancing strategy is not as well advanced as other components of the reform program,
but it would be accelerated during FY03-05. The specific steps the province has taken or intends to take
are discussed below.
Improving the Business Environment For Industry and Trade
73.    The GOP has recently established a Cabinet Committee on Deregulation to review the federal
level regulatory constraints to the development of the private sector. The GoNWFP, in addition to
assisting this GOP Committee, is implementing several reforms (Annex 1). These are: (i) a public-private
sector Deregulation and Facilitation Review Committee has been established to review provincial
regulatory constraints, and its recommendations would be implemented over the next two years; (ii) the
Industries Department has been reorganized, and its focus is being shifted to promotion, facilitation, and
enforcement of safety regulations; (iii) divestiture/privatization of commercial activities is being
implemented. The government intends to start reducing its shareholding in the Bank of Khyber, the main
provincially-owned commercial enterprise, to reach below 50% by FY04 and complete divesture by
FY05. In addition, a program has been initiated to lease the dozen or so off-grid micro hydel projects to
the private sector in the local area; (iv) to exploit the province's mineral, gemstone, and marble resources
on economic lines, the Mineral Department has been restructured, a Policy Committee appointed,
Concession Rules amended to allow entry of small-scale businesses, and a Mineral Investment
Facilitation Authority has been established; and (v) a detailed province wide study would be undertaken
in FY03 to analyze the sources of and constraints to private sector development, with particular emphasis
on the role of SMEs. This would be used to design a more focused economic growth and poverty
alleviation strategy (taking into account findings of recent poverty related studies, Annex B) to unleash
the province's full potential. It would be a much-needed and timely piece of work, especially as the
province stands to gain significantly, because of its locational advantage, from business possibilities
related to the reconstruction in Afghanistan.
Other Productive Sectors
74.    The PRP also includes sectoral reforms to improve the effectiveness and quality of economic and
infrastructure services that are critical to growth.
75.   Agriculture. Although the arable land in the province is not extensive, agriculture remains the
mainstay of the province. An agriculture and rural sectoral strategy is being developed, with some
implementation begun, emphasizing: (i) targeting overall agricultural growth through sound policies,
including reducing the role of the public sector, withdrawing subsidies and allowing market pricing; (ii)
alleviating poverty in rural areas; (iii) ensuring farmers' access to necessary technical information and
inputs to increase agricultural productivity and exploiting the province's comparative advantage in
production and export of high value added crops and horticultural products, by rationalizing the extension
department and initiating a program to enhance its technical capacity; (iv) further developing the seed



-21 -
industry with public-private partnership; (v) expanding vaccination coverage of livestock; and (vi)
divesting all non-core activities. The province is in the process of legally winding up three recently
closed autonomous bodies (the Frontier Cooperative Bank, the Agricultural Development Authority, and
the Fruit and Vegetable Board), and downsizing or restructuring other agencies to shift focus to
agricultural policy, research and development, and extension services.
76.   Irigation. Although NWFP is not as widely irrigated as Punjab, efficient irrigation of the
province's fertile tract is crucial for its agriculture and the economy. Under the on-going National
Drainage Project, the government has initiated institutional reforms to decentralize the management of the
irrigation and drainage system, improve maintenance of the system, enhance water availability at the tail
end, and increase cost recovery. These reforms involve: (i) transforming the Irrigation Department into
an autonomous NWFP Irrigation and Drainage Authority, leaving only regulatory functions in the
government domain; (ii) establishing commercially oriented and autonomous Area Water Boards (AWB)
at the canal command level, with farmer representation; (iii) devolving O&M and cost recovery
responsibilities to formally organized Farmer Organizations at the distributary/minor levels; and most
importantly, (iv) fostering beneficiary/community/private sector participation in all aspects of the
operation and management of the irrigation and drainage systems. These institutional reforms have been
initiated but implementation needs to be accelerated. In addition, to generate resources for the water
sector, the water charges (abiana) have been increased annually by 25% and the government has taken
right sizing and cost reducing measures, including a freeze on new recruitment, sale of assets (earth
moving machinery, tubewell rigs, etc.) and privatization of government tubewells through community
mobilization. Over the medium term, the government plans to follow through with the above reforms and
ensure that the new institutions are made operational.
77.   Roads. The province has a relatively good road network, except in a few remote, hilly areas, but
adequate maintenance is a major issue. The Government has initiated several measures to deal with the
issues of inefficiency of the system, poor cost recovery, inadequate funding, and the backlog of
maintenance of provincial roads. These measures include establishing an autonomous Highway
Authority, under public-private oversight, for managing all aspects of provincial highways. The
Authority would be responsible for managing the newly established Road Maintenance Fund which
would be funded through user charges, and would help improve service delivery. Maintenance and other
road construction activities will continue to be outsourced. In addition, a specific program is being
initiated to rehabilitate, during the next seven years, all the roads in very poor conditions. The
Government has prepared a program for increasing user charges to self-finance the Maintenance Fund, as
well as completing the back-log of maintenance work within five years.
IV. THE PROPOSED NWFP STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A.   PAKISTAN COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
78.   The Government of Pakistan is engaged in fundamental reforms for the transformation of the
country. These reforms cover a broad spectrum-politics, institutions, economic, gender, and social.
They provide a clear break with the past, especially regarding gender equity. The main goal of the Bank
Group's Assistance Strategy is to support these fundamental reforms for a transition to a modern Islamic
State through a program of analytical services, institutional capacity building, and demand driven lending.
The triggers underpinning the operationalization of the Bank Group's assistance strategy is based on
measurable outcomes which have the MDGs as a frame of reference, in alignment with corporate
priorities and global public goods.
79.   The Pakistan CAS advocates a programmatic approach focused on transfer of knowledge and
capacity building first, and resources second, in a flexible pursuit of key development outcomes.
Pakistan's I-PRSP sets out the process underlying a sweeping and ambitious reform program. These



-22 -
reforms are inherently long term in nature as acknowledged by the government and can therefore be more
effectively supported by multi-year programs-at the national, provincial, and district levels-hence the
need for a programmatic approach for the Bank Group's assistance strategy. The core program of fiscal
and governance reforms at both the provincial and district levels is an area for which the Bank's
programmatic approach is best suited; reforms take several years to yield results, and support needs to be
flexible and consistent to withstand the uncertainties inherent in such an endeavor. Moving forward with
reforms will also require assurance of a reasonable degree of financial support over the medium-term.
Hence the Bank's use of a series of adjustment credits to the federal and provincial governments will
provide a predictable and performance-based budgetary support to enable the reforming provinces to
restore their financial equilibrium while undertaking the difficult and politically controversial reforms.
The approach will also help the Bank manage risks by pacing its assistance with the future government's
ability to pursue reforms, and to give assurance of "just in time" support.
80.    Self Activating Entry and Exit Triggers for Bank Assistance to Provinces. As noted, Pakistan's
provinces face a fiscal crisis, itself the result of poor governance and economic management, which has
crippled their ability to deliver on their mandate. Since a significant volume of the Bank's lending
program is linked to structural reforms to increase the provinces' fiscal space and improve their capacity
to deliver basic services, the Bank's provincial lending program will be regulated by the following entry
criteria.
*  There is a reforming government at the provincial level with committed "reform champions" at
the top and capable reform leaders within the administration.
*  The provinces would have already initiated a number of reforms to restore good governance and
improve their public finances and public service delivery. This includes:
>  fiscal discipline translated into reduced short-term Ways and Means borrowing from the SBP
for deficit financing;2'
> improved performance of Financial Management Committees and PACs;
> initiation of civil service reform including pay & pensions adjustment, rightsizing by
eliminating positions, as per skills requirements, at the provincial and in autonomous and
semi-autonomous bodies; and
> marked improvement in civil service delivery, including enforcement of location-specific
teacher and health worker contracts, control of staff absenteeism, and implementation of
performance-based remuneration and teacher training programs.
81.    Correspondingly, Bank lending to the provinces will be guided by the following exit criteria:
* Deterioration or reversal of reforms to improve social service and governance.
* Reappearance of substantial short-term Ways and Means borrowing to finance the budget deficit.
* Expansion of public sector contingent liabilities (through off-budget financing of public
enterprises and other entities).
82.    The GoNWFP reform program meets the entry criteria above. There is a reforming government
at the provincial level with committed "reform champions" at the top and capable reform leaders within
the administration. The provincial government is committed to reform and owns the program, as is
evident from the PRP document and its implementation over the last 18 months despite financial and
capacity constraints. The reform program has clear objectives and is well articulated. The province has
already initiated a range of reforms to restore good governance and improve their public finances and
public service delivery. There is a significant improvement in the financial accountability and
21 Provinces only source of short-term borrowing are Ways and Means Advances from SBP which they have to return the same
year. However, because of persistent deficits, in case of Sindh and Balochistan, some of these have been converted into medium
tenn loans.



-23 -
management. Civil service reforms have been initiated. Critical steps have been taken to improve service
delivery through location-specific civil service contracts, control of staff absenteeism, and
implementation of performance-based remuneration and teacher training programs. Importantly, the
strong actions already taken have enhanced the credibility of both the provincial leadership and the
sustainability of reforms.
83.   Bank's ongoing operations in NWFP. The Bank's on-going portfolio in NWFP consists of three
projects which focus on: (i) the rehabilitation of the drainage infrastructure through the country-wide
National Drainage Program (NWFP's share is around US$20 million IDA) and the NWFP On Farm
Water Management (US$21 million IDA), which is helping to reduce water losses and implement farmer
managed irrigation system; and (ii) NWFP Community Infrastructure Project (US$22 million IDA) which
supports community driven small infrastructure schemes. There has been a discernible improvement in
the performance of the NWFP portfolio during the last two years due to an aggressive portfolio
improvement strategy. Two of the three province-specific projects closed last year with satisfactory
outcomes, while the third-NWFP Community Infrastructure Project-is currently being implemented
satisfactorily and is also being replicated in other provinces. Implementation of the National Drainage
Program is also beginning to pick up in the province.
84.   Supporting Analytical Work and Technical Assistance.  The proposed Credit builds on
economic work such as the Reforming Provincial Finances Study (Report # 21362-PK), the Country
Financial Accountability Assessment Part I (FY01) which also assessed provincial fiduciary issues, the
diagnostic work done for the Social Action Project in education and health sectors in the late 1990s, the
Interim Pakistan Poverty Report (FY02), and the preparatory work done on NWFP provincial reforms by
successive Bank missions in FY01 and 02. The Bank supported the work on the FY03-05 MTBF for this
Credit.
85.    Economic and growth analysis in the province remains weak due to lack of reliable data of
provincial GDP estimates. This is an area where more detailed AAA is needed for improving our
understanding of the province's economic structure, sources of growth, constraint to private sector
development and in developing a framework to regularly, estimate provincial GDP series. Moreover,
assistance may be required to build provincial capacity for tracking outcomes that are aligned with the
PRSP and with the MDGs.
86.   Partnership and Donor Coordinah'on. Presently, the most active partners for NWFP are: (i) the
Asian Development Bank, which is providing support for social sectors, area development, judicial
reforms, and urban development; (ii) the UK DFID, which provides support for social sectors and
capacity building; and (iii) UNDP, which is providing assistance for capacity building and institutional
reform. The Bank and GoNWFP have kept these partners fully informed about the proposed operation,
and a provincial Development Forum is planned for July 2002.
B. THE PROPOSED CREDIT: RATIONALE, PRIOR ACTIONS, AND MEDIUM TERM BENCHMARKS
87.   The Credit (US$90 million) is designed as the first in the series of structural adjustment credits
that would cover the period of the FY03-05 MTBF, provided a strong commitment to reform is
maintained. The size of this credit (and subsequent credits) is based on the direct cost of reforms, the
strength of the reform program, absorptive capacity, and the resource requirements of expanding support
for priority social services. The proposed credit would allow the province to incur larger budgetary
expenditures entailed by the province's reform program, especially the costs of fiscal restructuring and
service delivery improvements. The MTBF developed by the provincial government, by making systemic
changes to increase the fiscal space, ensures that the province does not become permanently dependent on
externally financed budgetary support beyond the medium to long term.



-24 -
88.    The Federal government has expressed strong support for this (and the Sindh) provincial credit by
agreeing to pass on the entire Rupee equivalent of the Bank credit on IDA terms, bearing the foreign
exchange risk itself. The size, terms and conditions (of this and the Sindh operation) have been discussed
in detail between Federal government and IMF staff, to ensure that they are fully consistent with the
PRGF fiscal framework.
89.   Prior Actionsfor Board Presentation. The Credit is based on specified prior actions that reflect
the momentum of the government's ongoing program. These are few in number, but significant in terms
of their influence on development outcomes supported by the reforms. They include a paradigm change
in the four core areas of the reform program: (i) implementation of a strategy to strengthen the quality and
delivery of priority education and health services; (ii) governance reforms to restructure the civil service
and deepen the program of decentralization; (iii) fiscal and financial management reforms; and (iv)
private sector development, including regulatory reform. The prior actions are listed in column 2 of Table
4, and have all been completed.
90.    Triggers for Subsequent Operations. The current NWFP SAC has been formulated as the initial
operation in a three year program of support, with subsequent operations being negotiated on an annual
basis and based on the performance in the preceding year, achievement of pre-agreed actions, the
observed strength of the reform program, and satisfactory macroeconomic framework as per the PRGF.
The indicative triggers for the next operation are shown in column 3 of Table 4. These continue to focus
on social service delivery, governance reform, M&E and fiscal and financial management reforms
required to keep the program on track. The loan preparation cycle would aim to time loan effectiveness at
the beginning of each fiscal year to support the budget, consistent with the MTBF. Medium-term
outcomes are highlighted in the Policy Matrix (Annex A, Attachment 1).
91.    Disbursement, Procurement, and Financial Management. The Credit will follow the Bank's
simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment operations.
*  The Credit proceeds will be deposited into a GoP Deposit Account at the SBP, which will be
audited by the SBP's independent auditors..
The local currency equivalent will be transferred, in a single tranche, to the GoNWFP
Consolidated Account No. 1 (Non-food) within two days after the Credit proceeds are received
by the GOP. These proceeds would be subject to the usual GoNWFP budget execution and audit
policies and procedures, along with all other GoNWFP funds.
* The Auditor General of Pakistan will audit the transfer of the local currency equivalent from the
GoP to the GoNWFP. This audit will examine the conversion of the USD Credit proceeds into
rupees and the transfer of those rupees to the GoNWFP Consolidated Account No. I (Non-food).
* The Credit proceeds will not be used to finance expenditures excluded under Schedule of the
Development Credit Agreement. If any portion of the Credit is used for ineligible purposes as
defined by the Development Credit Agreement, IDA will require the government either to return
that amount to the Deposit Account for use for eligible expenditures or to refund the amount to
IDA.
* The Federal Government will onlend on IDA terms in Rupee equivalent at the exchange rate
prevailing on the date of transfer.
* The SBP, on behalf of the Government, will maintain an appropriate accounting system in
accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles. It will provide the required
informnation on the receipt and use of the Credit funds and will prepare annual financial
statements, up to and including the fiscal year in which the balance in the Deposit Account is
zero, in a format agreed at negotiations.



-25 -
Table 4: Prior Actions and Key Triggers
Outcomes                                   Prlor Actions Taken                         IndicatIve Trlggen for Follow-up Operaion
W              _w_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,
Govemment restructuing to devolve staff to  Uphold the effective ban on new recruitment estructuring of 26  Annual review of the mstructuring and staff rationalzations;
disbtrts and rationalize staffing, consstent  Departments/attached departments and abollon of more than  notify and Implement revised Rules of Business.
with decentralization agenda, to Improve  6000 positions; notification of the Surplus Pool and Faclity
efficiency and effectiveness of provindal  Specific contract Policies.
govemment
Promoting merit and professionalism of the  Establish full authority of the NWFP Public Service Commission  Computerize HR database for all provindadWdtr  emplyees;
dvil service, and Improve Human Resource  (PSC) for recruitment of officers; increase the PSC's  reduce recruitment time to four months for contcktual and
Management                             administrative autonomy; Introduce a transparent and merit-  tenured staff; pilot contract-based employment Implemnt
based promotion system; approve comprehensive capacity  capacty building program.
building program.
Judidary made Independent              Judidary sepamated from executive and provided finandal and
recruitment autonomy.
Monitoring strengthened to Improve public  Implement and publish Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS);  M&E arrangements fully functional: Publidy dissemiate third
service perfomiance and responsiveness to  full funding of educatonal and health management infomation  pary survey report and agency annual reports; EMIS and HMIS
public needs.                         systems; approve program for third party monitoring and user  made fully functonal
surveys.
r; ''i"l:hUl;-lltti:Jl ! IS'P1 ,DUCAt'lADHA
Educaton reforms to expand access to   Approve staff ratlonalization program; approve program for  Complete provision of sanationAater facilities to girl's sdcool;
quality education servies, improve     provision of water and sanitation facilities to all girls schools;  achieve enrolment and dmpout reducton targets; complete
enrollments by 15% in 3 years, reduce  establish educaton sector reform unit approve program to  expanded recruitment and redeployment of teachers;
gender dispaities, increase aduit literacy.  recruit 2000 primary teachers; introduce teacher absenteeism  Implement absenteeism monitorng system; comple teached
reduce/eliminate absenteeism           monitoring system; Increase educaton alocatons within MTBF.  management caderizatlon; FY03 expenditures (total and IMUR)
as per MTBF program.
Health refomis to strengthen provincial and  Establish a management cadre; grant increased managerial and  Extend coverage of TB DOTS and immunization as per
dirct management capadty, Improve the  finandal authorty to tertiary hospitals; initiate rationalizaton of  prgram; deploy 1800 new Lady Healt Workers and 200
quality and coverage of communiable    ditrict heaflth services; appmve program to Increase female  female nurses; approve long-term heaflth sectdor reform plan;
disease control and matemal and child  nursing staff and LHWs; approve enhanced Immunization  pilot facilty-specifc contract employment FY03 expenditures
health lntervention programs.          program with GAVI support increase health allocatons wHhin  as per MTBF progam.
MTBF.
'~4  ~'     JlW.LP-RO,1NG RSCAELJSUSTAJNABtT'           R
Improved development effectiveness of  Intmduce agriculture Income tax; appmval of AIT administraton  Program to modemize AIT administraton inifiated; fax
expenditures and fiscal displine;      modemization study; rationalize total number of faxes;  rateslpolicy revised In light of fax potential study to be
strengthen provindal revenue base; protect  rstructure and enlarge urban immovable property fax from 18  underaken In FY03.
key social and piority development     to 27 rating areas, and revise valuation formula.
expenditures In the budget reduceIme                                                                 nttoofteY0bugtcslttwthtgtsD
untargeted subsidy; improve the        Adopt FY03-05 MrBF; reduce wheat subsidy; reease KPP and  enhance sodal expenditure, boost own revenues; limit wheat
maintenance of public assets and       SAP funds to dstrics on formula basis In FY02; estabilsh Road  procurnement for strategc stocks only; full ncdoning of the
infrastructure.                        Maintenance Fund and the General Provident and Pension  Road Fund, Pension and Provident Funds; Provincial Finance
funds                                                  Awards announced
Strengthen financial management capacity  Initate Financial Management Reform Prgram: publily-  FY03 benchmarks of the Financial management reform acton
and accountability, increase the       available monthly recondliaton of revenue and expenditure  plan met new Procurement Regulations notified; and
transparency and effiency of public    accounts; establishment of Provincial Public Accounts  standardized pmcurement and bidding system as per the
procurement                            Commitee (PAC); upgrade DAO posWons for major dtricts;  Procurement Ordinance.
appoint provincal financial controlbr; new Procurement
Ordinanoe appmved; adoptlon by Cabinet of Financial
Management Reform Acdon Plan.
o,$ h i                           17 0ROWT
An improved business environment to    PSD enabing refomas lniflated: establish Deregulaton   PSD refomis continued, lnduding: PSD Strategy announced;
increase investment prvate sector      Committee; dose three agricukural and commercal        Satisfactory Implementation of Deregution program; GoNWFP
business actvity; accelerate rral growth.  autonomous bodies; Privatlzation decision of Bank of Khyber  shareholding In BOK bebw 50%; and rursUagroulture growth
approved.                                               strategy developed.



- 26 -
92.    Accounts and Audit of Deposit Account. While the IMF Safeguards Assessment mission
identified several risk factors in the accounts and audit of the SBP, considerable progress has been made
in implementing remedies to mitigate the vulnerabilities identified. An important mitigating factor for
fiduciary risks is the govermment's commitment and demonstrated progress in the implementation of its
ambitious agenda of public financial management reforms. This agenda has been built on the basis of
very solid economic and sector work carried out both by the Bank and the 1MF, and its implementation is
being supported by technical assistance programs from the Bank and the AsDB. The financial statements
of the Deposit Account will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA under terms of
reference in accordance with acceptable international standards of auditing. The first audited financial
statements will be submitted to IDA within six months of the Govemment's fiscal year ending June 30,
2003.
93.    Fiduciary Issues. NWFP province historically has had a better track record, compared to other
provinces, in respect of financial management and intemal controls.  Having achieved 100%
reconciliation, the GoNWFP has initiated a comprehensive program of financial management reforms
(paras 63-71). Overall, the provincial financial management reforms are aimed at, and will ensure, that
fiduciary risks are mitigated and public expenditures are spent effectively and as intended.
94.    Environmental Aspect. A national environment impact assessment will be carried out in FY03
by the South Asia Environmental Unit to assess compliance with environmental laws and institutional
reforms that need to be taken to improve environmental management. The NWFP reform program
includes strengthening of the provincial EPA,22 that will have a positive impact on environment. The
GoNWFP is planning to expand its capacity to implement the National Environmental Quality Standards
and review of environmental assessment. The Govemor has directed the line departments that public
sector projects should not proceed without an environmental assessment, as required under the EPA law.
Policy measures supported by this credit will have limited direct adverse impact on the environment.
95.    Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Arrangements. The outcome targets listed in Table 5 will
be monitored by the GoNWFP.
96.    The GoNWFP has a three pronged strategy for strengthening M&E arrangements. First, the
Government has undertaken the NWFP Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS 2001), the first of its
kind in Pakistan. The GoNWFP will discuss the MICS report with all stakeholders to reach a consensus,
during FY03, to use this as the baseline for tracking human development indicators in the future. The
Government plans to repeat the survey every 34 years.23 In addition, the government intends to upgrade
M&E as follows: (i) strengthen the Health and Education Management Information Systems to monitor
agency performance and key social indicators; (ii) undertake an annual independent third party user
facility and service quality surveys. These surveys would establish and track service quality, user
satisfaction, and district performance indicators; (iii) request the Federal Bureau of Statistics, and provide
funding, to regularly collect economnic data for the province; (iv) prepare agency annual reports, starting
with social service delivery agencies, which would be disseminated publicly; and (v) produce a quarterly
fiscal monitoring report, prepared by the Finance Department, to report on implementation of fiscal
reforms and the status of the accounts reconciliation; this report will be posted on the web. These
initiates, together, will also address the weak data on economic, poverty and social indicators in NWFP.
97.    Second, as a part of Pakistan's Interim-Poverty Reduction Strategy M&E arrangements, NWFP
would track (i) pro-public expenditures (e.g. on primary education); (ii) output (e.g. trained teachers); and
22 Starting FY02, a full-fledged Environment Department has been established and forest, fisheries and wildlife are now its
attached departments under the Secretary Environment. In FY02, 3 zonal offices of EPA have been set up in and 3 stationary
and 2 mobile units are being operated, by the EPA, for testing and monitoring of vehicular emissions.
23 The MICS provides a baseline for basic socio-economic indicators across all districts in the province, and will be used in
formulation of the PFC fiscal devolution exercise.



- 27 -
(iii) outcomes (e.g. the share of primary schools student graduating) variables; and (iv) MDG indicators.
As in other provinces, NWFP's Planning and Development Department will be mainly responsible for
coordinating this task with the Federal government PRSP Secretariat. This process would also help in
rationalizing baseline infonnation, and in setting targets that are consistent with the full PRSP targets.
Table 5: Monitoring Indicators
Areas an  Indicators                            End-Perdod Targets (FY05)                  Institutional Arrangements for
Monitoring
1. Overail
a) Provindal GDP grwth rate                   4-5%                                                Planning and Development Department
b) Poverty (caloric)                          38 % (down from 44% In FY99)                        Source for Poverty Data: PIHS Survey
every two years
I Pubik Finance
a)  Provindal Tax Revenue Growth              15% annual growth In FY03; 10% p.a. in FY04 & 05.   Quarterly Fiscal Monitoring Reports,
b)  User charges                              75% Increase over FY03-05                           Annual Budget Statements of
c)  Pro-poor l-PRSP expenditures              From 29% ot expenditures In FY02 to 35% In FYO5     Department of Finance, and Annual
d) Development expenditures                   From 26% of total expenditures In FY02 to 31% In FY05  Budgets
e)  Maintain timely, comprehensive and        100% computerIzaton and reconciliation of Civil     Department of Finance/Accountant
reconciled fiscal data using the New       Accounts.                                           General's Office
Accountng Model
S. Social Sectos
a)  Gross primary enrollment rate             85% (up from 70%)                                   PIHS, Annual EMIS,MICS, Annual
b) Gross primary enrollment rate female       84% (up from 54%)                                   Monitorlng Reports prepared by the
c)  Reduction In prImary school dropout rates  35% (down from 45%)                                Education Sector Reforms Unit and
d) Girls schools provided essential physical  100% by FY03                                        Third Party Survey
faclities                                                                                                     -do-
-do-
e)  Full immunization of children less than 2  80% (up from 54%)                                  PIHS, Annual HMIS, MICS, Annual
years (%)                                                                                     Report of the Health Sector Reform Unit
f)  % of populaton with access to TB Control  100% (up from 20%)                                  and Third party SuNey
using DOTS                                                                                                    -do-
g) Antenatal coverage of pregnant women by    45% (up from 34%)                                                   -do-
health professionals                                                                                          -do-
h) Contraceptive Prevalence Rate              35% (up fmm 21%)                                                    -do-
4. Infrastructure
a)  Populaton with access to safe drinking water  65% (up from 58%)                               PIHS, MICS
I   Proportion of roads dassfiRed in poor
conditlon.                                50% (down from 80%)                                 Annual reports of CWD, and
Independent surveys
98.        Third,    the   overall monitoring          of reform      implementation         will be     the   responsibility      of the
Economic Reform Unit in the Finance Department. Its report will be reviewed on a monthly basis by a
Secretary-level Committee chaired by the Minister of Finance, with quarterly review by the-Cabinet.
Special units to monitor progress on the sectoral PRP have been set up in the Education and Health
Department, and a Budget Analysis Unit is being formed in the Finance Department to monitor the
MTBF.
99.       Dissemination and Communications Strategy. As part of the FY03 budget package, all reform
related documentation will be in the public domain. The Government has also developed a dissemination
strategy, using workshops and print and electronic media, to inform the citizens and other stakeholders
(e.g., Nazims and Naib Nazims) about the reform program, and engender ownership.



- 28 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
100.  The proposed Credit is a high risk and high return operation. The high return comes from
supporting a comprehensive program of reforms implemented by the leadership and the executing
agencies of a province that directly affect poverty and welfare of close to 20 million people of NWFP.
The high risk comes from the transitory political situation in Pakistan and the coming into office of newly
elected provincial governments in October 2002, and possible weakening in their commitment to the
continuity of the reforns. These risks and their mitigating measures are discussed in some detail below.
101.  Benefits. The operation is expected to have substantial benefits in terms of both the process and
the development outcomes. The process has helped the Government to sharpen its focus on more
systemic reforms to be supported by the Credit and to shift to a rolling medium-term program. In terms
of outcomes, this credit is expected to lead to improved governance, an accountable government, faster
human development, and poverty reduction, as a result of the following measures:
* Institutional, policy and process reforms to establish accountability, transparency, and the rule of
law.
*  A civil service that is client driven, more accountable, performance-oriented, and merit-based.
*  A social sector service delivery system that provides greater access and better qualitv education,
especially for girls, and higher coverage of immunization and health programs.
*  A sustainable fiscal position subordinated to a medium-termn framework, fiscal restructuring that
will provide more resources for poverty reduction expenditures, improvement in the procurement
rules that will increase economy, efficiency and transparency in procurement, and financial
management that will enhance effectiveness of expenditures.
*  A revitalized private sector, increased trade and economic growth, and an increased private sector
role in service delivery.
102.   A major benefit of the program would be greater stability and growth, by addressing core issues
of poverty, weak governance, and poor service delivery, which provided a conducive breeding ground for
religious militancy and extremisrm  This program, together with the proposed program to mainstream
(with the rest of Pakistan) the tribal areas and develop border areas, should be seen as an important plank
in Pakistan's campaign against militancy and extremism.
103.  Risks. The reform program and this operation face several risks. First, and most immediate, is
the risk of lack of continuity in Government commitment to reforms as October elections approach. A
new government will be elected and most ministers are expected to change as a result. A second risk
arises from the weak implementation capacity. While the provincial government has initiated far-
reaching structural reforms, implementation capacity is stretched very thinly and in several areas technical
expertise is weak. A third major risk arises from the threat of external shocks, either in the national
economy, impacting on resource transfers from the center and own revenues, thereby diverting revenues
from priority needs, or the possibility of tensions along the borders disrupting norrnal commerce. These
are all significant risks which must be recognized and weighed in the context of potential benefits.
104.  Mitigating Factors. There are, however, several mitigating factors that help reduce the potential
impact of these risks on the program. The design of the reform program, including the substantial transfer
of resources and authority to lower levels of government, has set in motion institutional changes that have
both generated strong local support, and created a momentum for reform that any incoming government
will find difficult to reverse. The provincial program is homegrown, seen to be locally 'owned', and
enjoys consensus among major stakeholders. It will be widely disseminated through print and electronic
media. In addition, several of the objectives of the program (e.g., expanding girls' education, improving
service delivery, resolving fiscal issues, improving governance) were shared by preceding governments



- 29 -
and, because of demand by the civil society, are expected to remain an important part of the reformn
agenda of any future government.
105.   Sustaining 'quick wins' is often critical to generating persistent support for the reform program.
Reforms have been institutionalized in bodies such as the newly elected district governments, the Public
Accounts Committee, the provincial Fiscal Monitoring Committee, and at more micro but important
levels such as PTAs and the Road Fund. Most important, these reforms are expected to help deliver
visible and significant benefits on the ground through improved service delivery, public accountability,
and greater transparency. If the reforms are explained well, as the GoNWFP is trying to do, the political
costs of reversing the reforms would become significant.
106.  The program has also been designed with a clear exit strategy, if exit proves necessary.
Subsequent support programs will be conditional on satisfactory implementation of the reformns outlined
in this project document. Also clear triggers have been established for follow-on operations, and political
commitment would be evaluated in advance of any Bank support.
107.  The risks from exogenous shocks are high in Pakistan, given that the country is still on the path of
recovery, burdened with high debt, and located in a turbulent region. These risks may be greater in the
case of NWFP, given its proximity to Afghanistan and the large share of its arid agriculture. While these
are not insignificant, the reform program design addresses them by aiming to strengthen local govemment
institutions, improve social indicators, support improvements in the business environment, and achieve
quick wins to gamer support for the program. These elements are all critical to the political and economic
stabilization of the provincial economy.
108.  NWFP faces the risk of unpredictable flows of hydel profits from WAPDA. This risk is being
mitigated by the initiation of WAPDA's Financial Improvement Plan (in the context of the proposed
Second Structural Adjustment Credit) and the recent directive of the President to WAPDA to transfer the
agreed hydel profits to NWFP on a quarterly basis.
109.  Finally, the capacity limitations at various levels of the government in the province do pose risks,
but several sources of training and technical assistance are in place (or will be in place in the coming
months) to offset these risks. The on-going Essential Institutional Reform Operationalization Project
focuses on training district and provincial staff. Reform implementation units are being set up, and
technical assistance is being made available by bilateral donors. The GoNWFP has approved a
comprehensive capacity building program to enable the provincial and district govemments to strengthen
the implementation of key structural and governance reforms for which it intends to seek DFID support.






Annex A
Page I of 16
SHAUKAT AZIZ                                              ISLAMABAD
Minister for Finance
& Economic Affairs
May 27, 2002
Mr. James D.Wolfensohn,
President,
World Bank,
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
Please find attached a Letter of Development Policy, dated 24 May
2002, from the Government of NWFP to the Ministry of Finance. The letter
delineates the broad and comprehensive reform agenda, through which the
Governiment of NWFP proposes to strengthen and consolidate its economic
program, and for which it has sought assistance from the International
Development Association of SDR 71.2 million (US $ 90 million equivalent).
The Government of Pakistan supports this continued initiative and
recommends the proposal for consideration of the International
Development Association.
With regards,
Yours sincerely,



Annex A
Page 2 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N.-W.F.P.
D.O. No. 13o c 6u,A) Z-30/Fo/zo20- 200Z
Dated Peshawar, the -   ay24, .20z
Mr. Shaukat Aziz
Federal Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad
Dear Mr. Aziz:
Government of the North West Frontier Province
Letter of Development Policy
The North West Frontier Province (NWFP) faces difficult development challenges due to its
geography, history, and location. The province is landlocked and largely mountainous, with only 30
percent of its area being cultivable. With around 13% of Pakistan's population, the estimated per capita
income of the province is nearly 30% lower than the average for Palistan. NWFP has a weaker resource
base than other provinces. The province has also been experiencing low growth for a number of years,
with depleting forests, stagnant remittances, and inadequate development in other sectors. The provincial
economy is mostly dependent on relatively low value-added agriculture, services, public employment
especially in the armed forces, and low-skilled workers remittances from inside and outside the country.
The present Government of NWFP (GoNWFP), which came into office in 1999, faced a number
of daunting development challenges, including: a stagnant economy; endemic governance issues; a
breakdown of accountability; poor service delivery in all major services; wasteful and inefficient
expenditures; low social indicators; low tax potential; and heavy dependence on Federal transfers. The
budget was also saddled with a rigid expenditure structure dominated by high establishment costs, debt
servicing, and subsidies.
Recognizing that many of the problems were interdependent and needed a more systematic
approach, our Government decided to develop a comprehensive reform programme for the province.
With this in view we prepared the Provincial Reform Programme (PRP) 2001-2004, which draws upon
the goals and strategies of the country's overall Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP). Our
programme places particular emphasis on governance, devolution, and financial management reforms as a
means to expand and improve the delivery of critical social services (especially education and health).
After extensive discussions with various agencies, including the World Bank, the programme was
approved by the NWFP Cabinet in June 2001. Several of the PRP reform measures were incorporated in
the FY02 budget and reflected in the budget White Paper and departmental plans.
The PRP was prepared after extensive consultations throughout the province. In the light of the
PRP, during the last twelve months, our Government has already implemented significant institutional
and process reforms. We are planning further reform measures in the coming months in consultation with
the newly elected District governments. Attachment I lists all the reform actions taken and those planned
for the medium term.



Annex A
Page 3 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N.-W.F.P.
r                 ~~~~~~D.O. NQ, . z S    °F/_R0
Dated Peshawar. the  &11v z*   2
We would like to note here that the events following September 11, 2001, have reinforced the
view that a prosperous and stable NWFP is critical to Pakistan's campaign against terrorism. In addition,
there is a consensus in our government and the civil society that effective poverty alleviation with
enhanced job opportunities and a more literate and healthy population is the most effective deterrent
against extremism. We are confident that our ongoing reform programme provides the best means of
achieving this end.
THE PROVINCLAL REFORM PROGRAMME (PRP)
I.     Governance And Civil Service Reforms
Governance in our province, as in the rest of the country, had seriously deteriorated over the last
few decades. This deterioration manifested itself in excessive staffing, poor compensation (especially at
higher levels), declining quality of civil servants, over-centralization of decision-making, endemic
corruption, poor management systems, and wasteful procedures. To tackle these difficult issues, we have
drawn an ambitious, but feasible and phased programme.
Governance and civil service reforms, the essential vehicle for implementing the PRP, aim at a
significant increase in government efficiency, accountability, service delivery, competence and integrity.
Our strategy is to fully devolve power, decentralize functions and operations, reduce staff at the
provincial level, tighten the system of accountability, reorganize functions and departments at the
provincial level, improve recruitment, make promotions more merit and performance based, simplify
procedures, and computerize business processes. We have already put in place the following measures:
Administrative and Operational aspects of Devolution have been largely completed: The
requisite staff (around 200,000 out of total 280,000 provincial employees) have been assigned to district
governments, district rules of business prepared, training of elected representatives and staff instituted,
local government contract rules notified, and district accounts established. Partly as a result of the
devolution exercise, we have restructured and down sized the provincial departments. This has involved
merging several departments and abolishing several autonomous bodies and redundant agencies. This
exercise covered over two dozen departments and agencies. Consequently, over 6,000 employees became
redundant and have been placed in a surplus pool. Some of these employees have been assigned to
districts to meet local needs.
Other measures adopted for improving governance include: (i) the provincial Public Service
Commission (PSC) has been strengthened and made autonomous; (ii) institutional mechanisms have been
put in place to make recruitment and promotion merit- and performance-based; (iii) a contract
employment policy framed earlier is being revised to make all task- and location-specific positions
contract employment; (iv) the Government is continuing its freeze on new hiring, except for social sector
delivery staff; and (v) retirement rules have been amended to facilitate retiring of redundant or
incompetent officials.



Annex A
Page 4 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N..W.F.P.
D.O. NQ. Bo 6,F"*,W r- 3o/0 O/°OO --?oO 2
Dated Peshawar, the MAY z44, zoo2
Far reaching Judicial Reforms have been implemented to ensure the independence of the
judiciary. The judicial and executive functions have been separated. The Judiciary has been made
autonomous in matters of recruitment of judicial officials and in financial aspects.
A three-year institutional reform and capacity building programme, (called Essential Institutional
Reform Operationalization Project (EIROP), funded by UNDP, SDC and GTZ, was initiated in March
2001 to assist in institutional reform, comprehensive capacity building, and training of staff, specially at
the district level. In addition, with DFID support, a training programme for the newly elected
representatives and officials has been launched at district and lower levels.
We are cognizant of the huge capacity building needs, especially to implement the PRP and the
expanded social sector programmes. Hence, based on a preliminary review, we have drawn up an
expanded capacity building plan including specific plans for various sectors. We have also established
self-contained reform units for education, health and implementation of the PRP.
A major part of improved governance is reduction in corruption. We have taken a number of
steps towards that end. Anti-corruption Rules have been simplified to make it easier to take disciplinary
actions. Better enforcement of disciplinary rules has resulted in the initiation of 2240 disciplinary cases
since 1999 (compared to a similar number over the entire last decade). Over half of these cases have been
decided. In addition, we have dismissed and/or suspended about 300 education department employees
(including teachers) for negligence and prolonged absence from duties.
Over the medium term, we plan to continue to implement the reforms under way and further
intensify them.  Among the planned actions are: implementing the expanded capacity building
programme; developing an HR database from payroll data; conducting a civil servants census in FY03-
04; reviewing and adjusting the restructuring, downsizing, and personnel management measures;
strengthening district government staffing and staff training; completing district rules of business and
codes; establishing courts for small causes and family disputes; appointing separate senior officials to
handle public complaints against officials; establishing public safety and accountability
commissions/offices at provincial and district levels; establishing local government commission; and
extending e-government to all departments and districts. We intend to seek support of the UK DFID for
the expanded capacity building program.
The above ongoing and planned reforms are expected to have a salutary effect in terms of
increasing the efficiency, effectiveness, and integrity of the civil administration, as well as making it more
responsive to people's needs through devolution and administrative decentralization.
II.    Enhanced Service Delivery
The core of our Govermment's reform effort is to improve the delivery of services, especially
human development services, which will have a lasting impact on productivity, equity, and poverty. This
effort is in tandem with the govemance and financial reforms (discussed in a later sections) designed to
ensure increased resources, efficiency, and capacity. The important reforms in the delivery of social and
community infrastructure services are discussed below.



Annex A
Page S of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N.-W.F.P.
D.O. NQ. So (            //zoe     °o2
Dated Peshawar, ihe  Alq Zv, 2.02
Education
Some progress was made in the education sector during the last 10 years. Nevertheless, partly
because of the initial low base of education in the province, various education indicators are still
relatively low, and there is a great deal of variation within the province. Gender differentials are
especially large, with girls' primary gross enrollment rate presently at less than 54% as compared to more
than 85% for that of boys. The reasons for this state of affairs are longstanding and well-known:
inadequate financial resources; physical inaccessibility of many areas; poorly trained and ill-paid
teachers; general decay in educational standards in the country; inadequate supply of instructional
materials in schools; poor physical facilities in schools; weak accountability, institutional capacity, and
management of the educational system; and lack of community involvement in school affairs. This is
obviously a very serious situation, which would take years to remedy, but we are determined to address it.
The PRP has made educational improvement the foundation for achieving longer-term economic
development and poverty alleviation goals in the province. The medium-term objectives in the sector are
to: improve primary education (both enrollment and quality of instruction); reduce gender and rural-
urban disparities; and expand the capacity at the secondary school level. These objectives will be
achieved by increasing resource allocation to the sector, allocating more resources to female education,
upgrading the quality of instruction and teacher training, improving the management structure,
implementing devolution, and increasing community and private sector involvement.
We are giving the highest priority to improving the quality of education. A comprehensive staff
and facility rationalization exercise has been approved to serve as a basis for redeployment and needs-
based recruitment. As part of this plan, we shall ensure that every primary school meets the targeted
teacher-student ratio of 1:40. This will be achieved through teacher redeployment and facility specific
contract recruitment. During FY03, we intend to recruit 2000 primary school teachers on a facility-
specific basis. Deploying teachers in their home districts and localized recruitment would also reduce
teacher absenteeism. A results-based teacher evaluation and reward system has been introduced and a
province-wide, periodic student assessment system is being initiated. Teacher training programmes are
being strengthened. To improve its focus, the provincial education department has been bifurcated for
lower and higher level education. A district cadre of schools has been created; a training programme for
district staff has been initiated; and the separation of teaching and management cadres has been
introduced. The latter is meant to establish a professional school managerial cadre. Computer literacy
and English-medium instruction are being introduced on a pilot basis. Textbook de-regulation has.been
introduced for Classes 9-12, and a road map for expanding this initiative to the primary sector has also
been developed. An Education Sector Reform Unit has been established to monitor and oversee progress
in implementing reform.
We are encouraging public-private partnerships and community involvement in the promotion of
education. We have initiated a programme to encourage the private sector to use unoccupied government
buildings for establishing schools. We have restructured the Frontier Education Foundation (which
supports NGOs providing education) to make it autonomous and expand its activities to promote public-
private partnership. We have formed PTAs in allmost all 20,000 primary schools. The PTA capacity is
being strengthened and funds for instructional materials and minor repairs are being allocated to
individual schools through the PTAs.



Annex A
Page 6 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N.-W.FP.
D.O. NQ. 7oA/s) iS,o    /FD/2oe'-2oo2
Dated Peshawar, the  AlAy 24-   .Doz
We have substantially strengthened the monitoring and supervision mechanism for schools.
Circle Teams in each district, have been designated to carry out field visits every two weeks to monitor
absenteeism and availability of inputs at the facility level based on new monitoring forms. The reports
are reviewed monthly at the district level, and will now be reviewed quarterly by the Education Minister.
We view these steps as supplementing the citizen/community oversight and accountability arrangements
built into the devolution plan. In addition, the Education Management Information System (EMIS) would
be fully funded in the regular budget, starting FY03.
Budgetary allocations for education have been increased very substantially. Total current and
development expenditures on education increased by 27% (from Rs. 6.9 billion to Rs. 8.8 billion) during
1998/99 to 2000/01. Expenditures have been reallocated toward primary and secondary education and
vocational training (including teacher training) and away from tertiary and university education. User
charges from higher education have been increased by 20% over the last three years.
To accelerate reduction in gender disparity, this year's budget allocated 70% of the sector's
development budget to girls' schools, and innovative incentive schemes are being developed to increase
girls' enrollment. A major primary school facility up-gradation programme is being initiated to ensure
that 100% girls schools are provided toilets and boundary walls by end-FY03.
Medium-Term Programme
We plan to complete or take the following actions over the medium term: (i) enhance budgetary
allocation, which are envisaged to increase by 72% from Rs. 8.5 billion in FY02 to Rs. 14.7 billion in
FY05; (ii) complete the management reforms in education, including district-based management, separate
teaching and management staff, and train management staff; (iii) complete teacher redeployment, and
facility rationalization based on approved staff and facility rationalization plan; (iv) continue and/or
strengthen: provision of primary schools in seriously deficient districts; expansion of school capacity in
partnership with the private sector and communities; establishment of PTAs; provision of essential
physical facilities in all primary schools, especially for girls; the current large allocation of development
funds for girls' schools; deployment of teachers in home districts and location-based new recruitment; in-
service teacher training; performance-based teacher evaluation and compensation; the province-wide
student assessment system; and textbook de-regulation; (v) initiate and/or expand: secondary school
capacity; PTAs for secondary schools; and school facilities for computer literacy; (vi) continue to
strengthen the monitoring and supervision system including commissioning a regular third party user and
facility survey in October 2002, and annually thereafter; the survey would also provide independent
monitoring of education indicators; and (vii) we plan to continue to increase higher education user
charges over the medium term.
We believe that the impact of these wide-ranging reforms will be substantial. By the end of
FY05, the gross primary school enrolment is expected to increase by 15%, with girls' enrolment by 30%.
By end of FY05, 100% of both girls' and boys schools would have all the necessary physical facilities.
Serious gaps in school capacity in remote areas would have been remedied. The quality of teachers,
instruction, and student achievement are also expected to be significantly higher by that time.



Annex A
Page 7 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N..W.F.P.
D.O. NQ. t'%s)Z-3o     /FD/2oo--2oa2
Dated Peshawar, the_"W A> 4ZOcZ
Health
Despite improvement in the past, health indicators in the province on the whole remain relatively
poor. More than 40% of children under two years of age are not fully immunized, while infant mortality
and maternal mortality rates are still comparatively high. Underlying the low level of indicators are:
inadequate and uneven availability of primary health facilities, poorly staffed and stocked clinics,
inadequate allocations which are heavily skewed towards the tertiary health care, and high incidence of
preventable diseases.
Our objective in the health sector is to significantly improve health indicators in the province
over the medium term. Our strategy, prepared in consultation with stakeholders, is to improve the
management structure, reorganize the healthcare system and have a multi-level referral system, focus on
preventive and primary health care, remove obvious gaps in facilities, increase budgetary allocations as
well as user charges, and increase reliance on the private sector with adequate regulation. Towards this
end, we have already taken a number of steps and several more are planned.
We have initiated Health Care and Hospital System Management Reforms. The Department of
Health has been restructured in line with the Devolution initiative with a substantive shift of staff and
resources to the districts. A management cadre has been created, and male/female doctors cadres have
been merged. A Health Sector Reform unit has been established to strengthen capacity for planning and
monitoring the reform process. Planning has been initiated for rationalization of district health services
with the objective of developing a grade and referral based system with appropriate staffing norms, and a
pilot programme in one district is under implementation. All tertiary hospitals have been given financial
and administrative autonomy with the aim of making these financially self-sufficient in three years, while
plans are being developed to protect access of the poor through safety nets. A hospital management
system is being developed to improve cost effectiveness and efficiency of public hospitals. Location-
based recruitment and improved working/timing facilities are underway to reduce absenteeism.
Communicable Disease Control and Maternal Health Programmes have been strengthened.
Specifically: (i) a programme to expand the coverage of immunization under Global Alliance for
Vaccination Initiative (GAVI) has been approved by the provincial government and will now be
considered at the national level; (ii) Hepatitis B vaccination has been initiated in three districts, and
province wide implementation will begin in early FY03; (iii) Polio cases have been reduced from 57 in
2000 to 28 in FY01, with a target of eliminating cases by FY04; (iv) an intensive campaign for TT
immunization of pregnant women in 15 high risk areas with involvement of Lady Health Workers
(LHWs) was initiated in August 2001; (v) a plan to recruit 1800 additional LHWs has been approved,
and their role and that of paramedics is being expanded to include nutritional and reproductive health
education; and (vi) the TB DOTS programme has been revitalized in 5 districts, covering 20 percent of
the population.
Budgetary allocations for the health sector were increased from Rs. 1.7 billion in 1998/99 to Rs
1.9 billion in 2000/01. Expenditures on primary health care and mother and child care were increased by
8%.



Annex A
Page 8 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N.-W.F.P.
D.O. NQ. B. (h J) I-30/fDO-60, -Jooz
Dated Peshawar. the A  y   20 0Zooz
Medium-Term Programme
In the medium term, our Government's emphasis will be on expansion and strengthening the
reforms. We have recently approved a medium-term health program, identifying key priorities and
expenditure allocations. In particular, we plan to focus on the following activities: (i) increasing
budgetary allocations between FY03-05 by a dramatic 120%, with higher allocations for primary care; (ii)
strengthen the Reform Unit, capacity and training of the district staff, and the hospital management
system; (iii) rationalize and upgrade district health facilities including addressing critical shortages of
nurses in district and sub-district hospitals; (iv) expand the use of LHWs and paramedics as the frontline
health workers to provide the first contact basic health care/advice; (v) continue location-specific
recruitment/deployment of health workers; (vi) augment public health services in partnership with the
private sector and local communities; (vii) implement phased increases in user charges, with an effective
safety net for the poor; (viii) expand the coverage of communicable disease control programmes of
immunization, TB DOTS, and of reproductive health services; and (ix) monitor the impact of reforms
through periodic household and third party surveys.
We believe that these reforms would result in substantial increases in the coverage, efficiency,
and quality of health service delivery. Thus it is projected that immunization coverage of children under
two years of age would increase from 54% to 80% by FY05; antenatal coverage of pregnant women (by
health professionals) would increase from 34% to 45% by FY05; percentage of population with access to
TB DOTS would increase from 20% to 100% by FY05; the number of polio cases would be zero by
FY05; and the number of LHWs would be increased from 7,800 to 14,000, resulting in an increase in
coverage of primary health care and family planning services from the current 37% to about 75% of the
population by FY05. We expect that the systemic changes being made would make the provincial health
system leaner, decentralized, more self-financed, cost effective, and responsive to the needs of local
communities.
Women's Development
Our Government recognizes that the province has a relatively conservative society. Hence, it
requires a special focus on addressing gender issues and improving the welfare of women. Some progress
has been made in this area in the past few years. Women are increasingly receiving education;
participating in many professions and businesses; and playing an active role in politics. However, we
plan to sharpen our focus on this extremely important development issue to fully utilize our human
resources. We have a two-fold strategy in this regard. First, in each of the sectoral reform areas,
especially in the crucial education sector, concerted efforts are being made to reduce gender disparity and
mainstreaming women's role.   Second, the Department of Women Development has under
implementation several schemes, partly with support from the private sector and local communities, to
promote skill development among women and provide temporary shelter, a crisis center, and free legal
assistance for women in distress. We plan to expand these activities through public-private partnership,
community help, and NGO assistance. A Steering Committee, including civil society members, would
oversee these activities and provide a vehicle to raise people's awareness of the needs and rights of
women.



Annex A
Page 9 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N.-W.F.P.
D;O. NQ. & (4) Z-30/FD/200r-2ooZ
Dated Peshawar, the  Y42y4, 2002.
Community and Urban Infrastructure
Devolution has provided an opportunity to address key institutional and community
infrastructure constraints, which have historically hindered the delivery of urban services especially to
the poor. Using this opportunity, our Government has consolidated various service delivery agencies
(merging Communications & Works and Public Health Engineering Departments); transferred
appropriate functions and organizations to the local governments (including the Urban Development
Authorities); and instituted special arrangements for the main urban center, Peshawar City District.
Regulatory body will be established for urban water sector at the provincial level. Our Government has
nurtured an enabling environment for participatory development and has spearheaded Community Driven
Development initiatives throughout the province. The Bank's Community Infrastructure Project in NWFP
is being sticcessfully implemented and a follow-on project is being planned. Our Province is also the first
in the country to commence the development of an integrated and participatory strategic plan at a city
district level, which is likely to provide a model for a comprehensive development framework for the
newly formed District Governments. Our Government intends to examine the need for any further
streamlining of agencies in this sector, adopting a uniform policy for community participation and
responsibility, and upgrading the management and technical capability of the local government and urban
services institutions.
m. Ensuring Fiscal Sustainability and Financial Accountability
The fundamental and long-standing fiscal issues facing the province are: (i) the shortage of
available fiscal resources resulting from rigid revenue and expenditure structures, unpredictability of the
volume of federal revenue receipts, especially net hydel profits from WAPDA, and accumulated debts;
(ii) growing expenditure needs on account of current inadequacy of service coverage, infrastructure, and
the relatively high population growth rate; (iii) outdated and inadequate regulations, rules, and instruction
manuals leading to procurement that lacks efficiency, transparency, and is vulnerable to corruption; and
(iv) poor financial management and oversight.
Flscal Reform
Close to 90% of provincial revenues are derived from the Federation, on account of tax
assignments, hydel power generation profits, and federal grants. The remaining 10% revenues are
derived from provincial taxes (which have a narrow base and are not buoyant), user charges, and other
non-tax receipts. This structure, and the poor economic base of the province, leaves little leeway, in the
medium term, for our Government to increase revenues through our own efforts.
In recent years, hydel receipts from the WAPDA have not been fully predictable. Consequently,
we have been often forced to resort to expensive stop-gap borrowing, as well as to unplanned cuts in
expenditures, which often fall on development and non-salary expenditures.
Current expenditures constitute over 80% of total expenditures, out of which contractual
obligations (salaries and interest payments) claim the largest part, while development expenditures have
been seriously constrained. In the past, development expenditures were financed from borrowed



Annex A
Page 10 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N..W.F.P.
r                 ~~~~~~D.O. N,B  ,S)-     0/>/20
Dated Peshawar, the  A   t1' z.  2COZ
resources, mainly expensive (interest rates of 15% and above) Cash Development Loans (CDLs) from the
Federation. The total provincial debt in FY01 was Rs. 69.8 billion (almost 200% of total revenue receipts
of the province), half of that on account of CDLs, with debt service claiming 25 % of total revenues.
To expand our fiscal resources for meeting our growing development and service needs, our
Government has adopted a comprehensive medium-term fiscal strategy. This includes: (i) increasing
provincial revenues through further tax reform and accelerating user charge increases; (ii) divesting
inessential activities; (iii) implementing fiscal devolution; (iv) improving the budgetary process, financial
management, procurement process, and transparency; (v) strengthening the audit oversight arrangements;
and (vi) formulating a medium-term budget framework (MTBF). The key medium-term emphasis of
fiscal adjustment is on expenditure management and increasing non-tax revenues and user charg'es, given
the low potential for enhancing taxes.
We have already started implementing the above strategy and have taken actions in key areas as
discussed below:
Our Government has implemented fiscal decentralization. In anticipation of the devolution of
powers, we prepared the initial district budgets for FY02. Local governments are being made responsible
for preparing their own budgets for FY03, and the needed staff has been assigned to them. We began
allocating certain development funds across districts based on clear criteria, including population and
social indicators. NWFP is the first province to have used such a needs-based formula for budgetary
transfers to the districts. A Provincial Finance Committee has been established which is working on a
formula based fiscal transfer to the local governments. The awards to transfer funds to the local
government are expected to be announced in June 2002.
Our Government has pursued revenue measures aggressively to strengthen resource
mobilization. The tax reforms include reducing and restructuring provincial taxes; imposition of income-
based agricultural income tax to complement the province's land-based tax; outsourcing of collection of
motor vehicle tax and harmonization of rates with other provinces; and restructuring and expansion of the
base of the Urban Property Tax from 18 to 27 rating areas. Moreover, enhancement and rationalization of
user charges has been initiated, especially for economic and tertiary-level social services. Irrigation water
rates (abiana) are being increased by 25% each year in anticipation of better service delivery.
Our Government has reprioritized expenditures to improve its composition and strengthen
expenditure management. The development progranune has been rationalized. During the last two years,
we have reduced the number of projects in the portfolio by two-thirds and the "throw-forward" of fiscal
liabilities to complete ongoing projects by 65%, with further reductions of 50% and 25%, respectively, to
be made by the early next fiscal year. Throw forward now is around 100% of the annual Public Sector
Development Programme compared to more than 300% a few years back. In addition we have increased
the share of development expenditure in total expenditures from an average of 10-15% during FY98-0I to
25% in FY02.



Annex A
Page 11 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N..W.F.P.
D;O. No. Bo(fJP sW'q0 /-30o/tV/doI-8Zoz
Dated Peshawar, the M-  2y 24, zOoz
Our Government was the first in Pakistan to establish a Pension Fund for provincial civil servants
to better manage provincial contingent liabilities. A separate fund has also been established to cover
liabilities on account of General Provident Fund. A number of public enterprises and autonomous bodies
have been closed, which would save around Rs.70-100 million annually.
We have made substantial improvements in budget formulation and monitoring. Unlike past
practices, we are no longer permitting spending commitments to be made against net hydel profits above
the capped amount of Rs 6 billion. We have also programmed expenditures assuming a shortfall of
around 5% in federal tax transfers to the province. We have also instituted several reforms in the
preparation, processing, and execution of the budget, including: posting fiscal data on the website;
economic classification of expenditures in budget documents; merging three different departmental
submissions during the year into one mid-year review; computerizing budget preparation; establishing a
new schedule for timely release of funds; and establishing a professionally staffed Budget Analysis Unit,
to start functioning in early FY03. Programme and Performance Budgeting (PPB) will be initiated in a
few pilot departments during FY03.
Medium-Term Programme
To strengthen the provincial finances and help implement the PRP, we have approved a Medium-
Term Budgetary Framework (MTBF) for FY03-05. The MTBF is predicated on several key parameters.
First, the existing National Finance Commission (NFC) formula has been assumed for planning purposes.
Second, the resources accruing from hydel profits transfers to NWFP from WAPDA, have been projected
at the currently capped amount of Rs. 6 billion per year, pending resolution of the matter. In regard to
improving predictability of hydel receipts from WAPDA, we expect full and timely implementation of the
recent decision by the Chief Executive directing WAPDA to transfer the capped amount of the net hydel
profits on a pro-rata quarterly basis. Third, the framework incorporates new revenue measures that have
been implemented or are planned for launch in FY 2002/03. In this regard, very conservative revenue
buoyancy assumptions have been used. The MTBF is consistent with I-PRSP objectives. The MTBF
would be a rolling framework and each years' budget will take into account available NFC resources,
federal transfers and exceptional budgetary financing.
We expect that, as a result of the fiscal reforms underway, and those proposed in the MTBF,
additional fiscal space generated will be approximately Rs.2.6 billion/year, about 5 to 6 percent of total
expenditures. Over the three year period, this would amount to nearly Rs. 7.8 billion. Briefly, thefiscal
reform measures are: (i) increasing non-tax revenue of which user charges are forecast to increase by
75% by 2004/05; (ii) agricultural income taxation (AIT), initially imposed on farms earning in excess of
Rs. 80,000 net annual income ($1,200 in 2002 rates). This is conservatively estimated to raise Rs.60
million in the first year, but would gradually increase thereafter, through improved land surveys and
increased collection capacity. This reform effort has a very important longer term role to play; closing a
major loophole for tax evasion, reducing a major distortion that has been politically difficult to tackle, and
creating a vehicle for local taxation that has significant potential; (iii) withdrawal of the poorly targeted
and ineffective wheat subsidy is expected to save about Rs.1.5 billion each year. In future, only
allocations for management cost of strategic stocks will be made; (iv) higher user charges for roads and
tertiary health and education services are also planned, beginning FY03; (v) under a new debt



Annex A
Page 12 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N.-W.XP.
p r                     ~~~~~~~~D.O. Ng.er2as/e/DZo-o2
Dated Peshawar, the "s' ZY, ;002
management policy, our government has decided to retire about Rs. 2 billion of expensive debt in
2002/03; the same is planned in the next two years. This will save us Rs. 180 million in debt service in
2003/4 and about Rs. 850 million over the following two years. Share of interest payments in total
expenditures will decline from 17% to 10% over the three year period; (vi) reducing the share of current
expenditures from 74% of total spending in FY02 to 69% in FY05, with a corresponding increase in
development (capital) expenditure; and (vii) reallocation of expenditures to priority social sectors-
mainly primary education, primary health, and agricultural services, including irrigation-which will
increase their share from 26% of total expenditures in FY02 to 35% in FY05, consistent with the
respective department's implementation capacity.
With the implementation of its fiscal strategy, the province would achieve a more sustainable
fiscal position, increase expenditures on pro-poor program, and, together with institutional reforms,
improve public service delivery. We are committed to protecting allocation for the pro-poor expenditure,
especially that for primary education and health, in the event of revenue shortfalls. In addition, to ensure
that implementation of the enhanced social sector program begins expeditiously, we have initiated
preparation of the PC-ls which are expected to be approved by July 2002. On this basis, we envisage
initial funding would be released to the implementing agencies in August 2002.
In the medium team, we aim to: further strengthen budget processing, including computerization,
and presentation; establishing a standing Provincial Finance Commission in FY03 to institutionalize the
fiscal decentralization and to review the fiscal performance of districts on an on-going basis; provide
necessary assistance/training to district on fiscal matters; make PAC a fully functioning accountability
agency, and take prompt action on its recommendations; increase capitalization of pension and provident
funds; and improve coverage of fiscal data on the web site. We will be undertaking a study of the
province's tax potential (including AIT) during FY03, which will recommend further tax effort measures
for introduction in FY04 budget. We will also undertake a study in FY03 for modernizing and
strengthening AIT collection and processing. We intend to reach agreement with the Federal Bureau of
Statistics for collecting reliable provincial economic data.
Financial Management Reforms
Financial management and accountability issues are at the core of our reform programme. There
are serious weaknesses in financial management, accountability, and internal controls. While systems
and procedures were in place in the past, these were ignored leading to poor quality of public accounts
and lack of reconciliation of accounts. The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) was dysfunctional for
over a decade.  Moreover, the several layers of checks and balances introduced by successive
govermments to try to check and reduce abuse became extremely time consuming and cumbersome. Our
procurement rules and regulations are outdated. This is further aggravated by the actual procedures and
practices that thwart genuine competition for government business resulting in inefficient and costly
procurement. The legal and regulatory framework also does not provide an effective means for settling
disputes or addressing the grievances of suppliers, contractors and consultants. Thus, improvement in
fiscal management, quality of public accounts, public accountability, and procurement are among the key
reform targets. The programme to strengthen and improve financial management comprises the following
key components.



Annex A
Page 13 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N.-W.F.P.
D.O. No.30 2;    /2o /-3Q>PD/20f -Z.0Z
Dated Peshawar. the A  s .    2-oZ
We have adopted a Financial Management and Accountability Reform Programme (FMARP) for
the province. Under this programme a detailed Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment (PFAA)
will be prepared jointly with the Bank. This assessment will cover accountability issues for all tiers of
government in the province. Based on the findings of the PFAA, a short, medium, and long term financial
management reform action plan will be prepared in agreement with the Bank
The provincial Fiscal Monitoring Committee (FMC) and Departmental Accounting Committees
(DAC) are functioning. The provincial FMC has been functioning adequately and has done a good job.
According to the Accountant General (AG), for FY01, 95% of NWFP's provincial receipts and 100% of
expenditures were reconciled, compared to only 50-60% a few years back. This is a significant
achievement compared with past record. Reconciliation between the AG and the State Bank of Pakistan
(SBP) have also improved substantially, and the amount in suspense are now insignificant. The DACs
have been held regularly as per the schedule provided by the AG's office. In FY01 and FY02, 100% of
the DACs were held.
Institutions responsiblefor the accountingfunction are being strengthened in several ways. (i) Last
year we upgraded our computerization system at twelve major District Accounts Offices (DAOs)
covering close to 60% of provincial expenditures; (ii) PIFRA supported reforms are being implemented at
the provincial level through the adoption of the New Accounting Model (NAM) and a more
comprehensive computerization of government budgeting and accounting systems which will have a
positive impact on the reliability and timeliness of provincial accounts. By December 2003 over 80% of
provincial transactions would be computerized; (iii) a Provincial Financial Controller will be shortly
appointed in the Department of Finance to lead financial management reforms. The Controller's main
task will be to implement financial management and public financial accountability reforms. In addition,
the Controller will be responsible for accounting and financial reporting (jointly with the Provincial
Accountant General), developing provincial capacity to handle accounting and payroll, organizing finance
and accounting functions of the government, staffing and training, internal controls and audit, financial
policies and procedures, and addressing audit observations and systemic issues; (iv) the position of
District Accounting Officers, the linchpin in the accounting system, has been upgraded to grade 18 for all
major districts, to professionally manage the district accounts under the newly devolved fiscal authority;
and (v) the province is holding discussions with the AG to prepare for budgeting and accounting at the
Tehsil level and assess capacity needs.
The Public Accounts Committee has been revived. The functioning of the PAC in NWFP was
delayed due to High Court ruling against it, which judgment has recently been vacated. The government
has promulgated an Ordinance, and an ad-hoc Committee has been established. The ad-hoc PAC would
be reviewing audit reports on last-in first-out basis, and all Committee meetings would be open to the
public. The PAC would play an important role in enforcing accountability in the province.
We have approved a new Procurement Ordinance to increase transparency and efficiency in public
procurement and introduce a new code of conduct and ethics for public official handling procurement.
By March 2003, we will revise the provincial Purchase Manual to notify new procurement rules and issue
standard bidding documents.



Annex A
Page 14 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N..W.F.P.
N r                ~~~~~D.O. No. v '&     -af /0z2o
Dated Peshawar, the  85 a       O, zoo z
IV     Enabling Sustainable Growth
Our Government believes that over the long term accelerating growth is key to poverty reduction,
and that the private sector has to be the engine of growth. In the PRP, we have proposed strategies to
improve the business environment; enhance productivity of agriculture; reduce the role of the public
sector in commercial and industrial activities; and promote public-private partnerships. Reforms to
irnprove the efficiency of the province's infrastructure, including irrigation facilities, road and urban
infrastructure and services; and environmental protection would also support the growth process. We plan
to undertake during FY03 a detailed province-wide study to analyze the sources of, and constraints to,
private sector development, with particular emphasis on the role of SMEs. The study would be especially
timely now; because of our locational advantage the province stands to gain significantly from business
opportunities related to the reconstruction in Afghanistan..
The industrial and commercial activity in the province has been at a low ebb for some time. Part
of the problem has been over-regulation of business. This largely relates to federal laws and rules rather
than of the province. Considerable liberalization of business rules was done over the last decade.
However, there are still too many laws and related inspections governing business, some of which are
superfluous, not fully enforced, or just a source of harassment and corruption. Our Government, in
addition to assisting the Federal Deregulation Committee in this task, has established a provincial
Deregulation and Facilitation Committee; its recommendations would be implemented over the next two
years.
We are also implementing several other reforms in this area. The Industries Department has been
reorganized, and its focus is being shifted to promotion, facilitation, and enforcement of safety
regulations. A Census of Manufacturing is under way, which will help us in policy analysis. The main
provincially-owned commercial enterprise, the Bank of Khyber, is scheduledfor privatization starting in
September 2002. To exploit the province's mineral, gemstone, and marble resources on economic lines,
the Mineral Department has been restructured, a policy committee appointed, concession rules amended
to allow entry of small-scale businesses, and a Mineral Investment Facilitation Authority has been
established.
To enhance growth prospects, we are undertaking a number of reforms in productive sectors as
discussed below.
Although the arable land in the province is not extensive, agriculture remains the mainstay of the
province. A sectoral strategy is being developed emphasizing: targeting overall agricultural growth
through sound policies, including reducing the role of public sector, withdrawing subsidies, and allowing
market pricing; ensuring farmers' access to necessary technical information and inputs to exploit the
province's comparative advantage in production and export of high value-added crops and horticulture
products; rationalizing the extension department and initiating a programme to enhance its technical
capacity; further developing the seed industry with public-private partnership; expanding vaccination
coverage of livestock, and divesting all non-essential activities. The province is in the process of winding
up three autonomous bodies (the Frontier Cooperative Bank, Agricultural Development Authority, and
Fruit and Vegetable Board), whose role is now redundant.



Annex A
Page 15 of 16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, M.W.F;P.
D.O. No._________________
Dated Peshawar. the       24, ZOO2
We are firmly of the view that efficient irrigation of the province 's fertile tract is crucial for its
agriculture and the economy. Major issues in this respect are poor maintenance of the irrigation system,
poor water availability at the tail end, and inadequate cost recovery. To address them, our Government
has initiated institutional and policy reforms to decentralize the management of the irrigation and drainage
system. These reforms comprise: (i) transforming the Irrigation Department into an autonomous
Irigation and Drainage Authority, leaving only regulatory functions in the government domain; (ii)
establishing commercially oriented and autonomous Area Water Boards (AWB) at the canal command
level, with farmer representation; (iii) devolving O&M and cost recovery responsibilities to formally
organized Farmer Organizations at the distributary/minor levels; (iv) fostering beneficiary / community /
private sector participation in all aspects of the operation and management of the irrigation and drainage
systems; (v) increasing water charges (abiana) by 25% annually to reach fully cost recovery; and (vi)
undertaking cost reducing measures, including a freeze on new recruitment, sale of assets (earth moving
machinery, tubewell rigs, etc.), and privatization of government tubewells through community
mobilization. Over the medium term, we plan to accelerate the institutional reforms to ensure that the
new institutions are made operational, and to follow through with the other reforms.
The province has a relatively good road network, except in a few remote, hilly areas. However,
O&M of roads is a major issue. The poor maintenance of roads leads to increased private cost in terms of
lost time and expensive vehicle maintenance and, finally, to higher capital cost of road rehabilitation. The
issues are inefficiency of the system, poor cost recovery, and inadequate funding. Our Government has
initiated several measures to deal with the backlog for maintenance of provincial roads and the broader
inefficiency issues. These include establishing an autonomous Highway Authority, under public private
oversight, for managing all aspects of provincial highways. The Authority' would be responsible for
managing the newly established Road Maintenance Fund to recover user charges and improve service
delivery. Maintenance and other road construction activities will continue to be outsourced. In addition,
a specific programme is being initiated to rehabilitate, during the next seven years, all of the roads that are
in very poor condition. Our Government has prepared a programme for increasing user charges to make
the Maintenance Fund self-financed for maintenance, as well as for completing the back-log of
maintenance work within five years.
Communication Strategy
The GoNWFP has developed a communication and dissemination strategy. Using workshops,
seminars, and print and electronic media, we intend to widely disseminate the reform programme to our
citizens, civil society, elected local government officials and government officials at the provincial and
local government levels. We also intend to post on our website our reform programme.
Monitoring and Evaluation
The monitoring and evaluation of the reform programme will be the responsibility of the
Economic Reforms Unit in the Finance Department. Its reports will be reviewed on a monthly basis by a
committee chaired by the Minister of Finance, Planning and Development, with quarterly reports
submitted to the Cabinet.



Annex A
Page 16of16
MINISTER FOR FINANCE,
PLANNING, DEVELOPMENT
GOVERNMENT, N..W.F.P.
D.O. NQ.  2aCfo,,/-3o/Fq/2 o-2co2
Dated Peshawat, the  A    ' 245. .oo q
Attachment 2 lists the key outcomes and process indicators and targets, which will be specifically
monitored and tracked. These include indicators for growth, poverty, fiscal aspects and social sectors,
and take into account the I-PRSP indicators. The targets and progress against these will be posted on the
website, on a six monthly basis, starting January, 2003.
We are fully committed to the reform programme outlined above. The Government of NWFP is
determined to implement this programme. We believe that the programme is strong and focused. It is
built around an integrated monitoring framework. It presents a new, ambitious, and holistic vision of our
medium term economic development based on a strategic prioritization of key actions agreed upon after
extensive consultations and intensive lesson learning. It fits within the overall I-PRSP framework for
Palistan. We submit this programme to seek support for it by International Development Association,
starting with a US$90 million credit for supporting the first year of the MTBF for FY03-05.
With all the best wishes,
Yours Sincerely,
Farid Rehman
Minister for Finance
Government of NWFP
Pakistan.



Attachment 1 of Annex A
Page I of 8
NWFP STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM FY2003-05
POUCY MATRIX
.~ ~
andfOrmcomea                                            Actons Taken                                       Medium Term Measures for FY 2003-05
Devolutfon
* A decentralized administration responsive to local  * Staffing of Districts and Tehsil Govemments completed.  * Review and complete the implementation of district Rules of
needs and a devolved polifical structure.    * Rules of Business for District Councils implemented.             Business and needed codes (FY03).
* Increased competence and professionalism of local  * Local Govemment Contract Rules notified.                 * Establish a Local Govemment Commission (FY03).
govemment staff.                             * Dist/Tehsil Provincial Accounts established.                  * Strengthen district govemment staffing and staff training (FY03-
FY04).
* Institute E-Govemment in all departments and districts (FY03-
FY05).
Restructuring and down-sking
* Lean policy-oriented govemment at the provincial  * Recruitment ban maintained, except for social sectors as needed.  * Complete annual review of the restructuring, downsizing, and accoun
level.                                       * 26 Departments/attached departments have been restructured and more  reforms (FY03).
* Efficient business processes. Better staffing mix  than 6000 sanctioned posts abolished at the Provindal level.  * Complete staff rationaleation between local and provindal
with smaller proportion of lower grade staff.  * Revision of the Provincial Rules of Business to modemize business  govemments (FY03-05).
processes initiated.                                          * Notify and implement the revised Rules of Business (FY03).
* Surplus Pool Policy established.                               * Complete the disposition of the provincial surplus pool (FY04).
* Develop a program for reducing the proportion of lower grade staff
relative to officers (FY03).
Promoting merit and professionalism and
Improving Human Resource Management
* Merit- and performiance-based personnel       * The purview of Provincial Public Service Commission (PPSC) extended  * Reduce the time taken for recruitment of staff through PPSC to 4
recruitment and management                      to contract-based recruitmetnt; has complete administrative autonomy,  months (FY03).
* Improved accountability, reduced corruption and  budget flexibility increased.                                * Develop an acion plan for creating district cadres for other sectors
misconduct                                   * District cadres for Health and Education established.            besides Health and Education (FY03).
* Flexible workforce.                           * A more transparent promotion system and objecive performance  * Amend 1973 Civil Servants Act or otherwise remove risk of
* Removal of ghost workers and tracking of pension  appraisal system for senior grades introduced.                 regularization of contract employees (FY03).
liabilities.                                 * Stronger enforcement of Efficiency and Disdpline Rules and NWFP  * Pilot contract-based employment (FY03).
* More effective use of existing staff resources.  Removal from Service Ordinance, against corrupt and inefficient staff.  * Significantly extend the average time in post of senior civil servants
* Compulsory retirement enforced for staff that have been superseded  (FY04).
.__ _ _ __   twice; had two penalties imposed; had low performance grading; or are  * Hold a civl service census (FY03-04).



Attachment I of Annex A
Page 2 of 8
Reform Ara                                            Actiors Taken                                      Medium Term Measures for FY 2003.05
and Outcomes
known to be corrupt                                          * Build HR database by: (i) completing the computerization of all
* Comprehensive capacdty building program for provincial and district staff  dsiict and departmental payrolls (FY03); fii) linking databases to
approved.                                                      provide central HR database to Finance (FY03); (iW) verifying
against civil service census (FY04); and fiv) using database to
assess government pension liabilities (FY04).
* Implement capacity building program (FY03-05).
Judicial Reifors
* Improved system of justice.                  * Judicial Service Rules revised.                              * Establish Family Courts to handle family laws and disputes (FY03-
* Complete independence of the Judiciary from the  * Chief Justice of High Court made the appoin6ing authority for lower level  04).
Executive.                                     Judges.                                                     * Establish separate courts for minor civil cases (FY03-04).
* Increased access to jus6ce.                  * The Judicdary separated from the Executive.                  * Establish a training program for the judicial staff (FY03).
* Specialized performance of judicial and                                                                     * Standardize recruitment and personnel management of judicial staff
prosecutoral functons.                                                                                        (FY03-04).
* Strengthen the Law Department (staffing and facilites) to enable it
to propedy perform its expanded functions (FY03-04).
Educaion
* Improved quality and access to education.    * Medium term Insttutonal Reform Program for education sector  * Approve PC-1s for implementing the reform program by July 2002,
* Increased overall gross school enrolment by 15%,  approved.                                                    and release inital funding by August 2002.
and reduced drop-out rates by 10%, by FY05.  * Program approved to bring the teacher student ratio to 1:40 through  * Provide MTBF programmed funding, including for IM&R and EMIS
* Improved leaming environment,                  redeployment, contract recruitment, and to start with hiring of around  (FY03-05).
* Reduced gender disparity.                       2,000 teachers in FY03.                                     * Staff fadlity rationalization (FY03-05).
* Improved delivery system.                    * To reduce gender disparity, 70% of the education PSDP allocated for  * Maintain monitoring and supervision program (FY03-05).
* Specialized school management                  girs schools.                                                * Initiate third party user survey in October 2002.
* Improved availability and quality of textbooks.  * Program approved to provide missing basic facilities to all girs primary  * Ensure that 1:40 teacher student ratio is achieved through teacher
* Community involvement and support ensuring      schools by end-FY03, and all schools by end-FY05.              redeploymentlnew hiring (FY05).
studentlteacher attendance, maintenance of  * Staff and facility rationalization exercise for primary and secondary  * Maintain the enlarged allocation (70%) for girts schools in the
schools, and provision of adequate instructional  schools approved.                                           education PSDP (FY03-05).
materials.                                  * Frontier Education Foundation (FEF) restructured.             * Provide adequate physical facilities in girls schools (FY03).
* Better management capacity and efficiency at the  * School capacity expanded by using vacant govemment buildings,  * Carry out redeployment and needs-based contract recruitment by
district level.                                operating evening dasses, using public-private partnerships,   September 2002.
* A standardized and objecive student assessment of  encouraging (and regularizing) private and community primary schools.  * Develop adequate linkages of the Frontier Educabonal Foundaton
educabonal quality.                         * Introduced a regular mechanism for monitoring and supervision of  with the Education Department (FY03).
schools, including teacher absenteeism, fully funded EMIS, and a third  * Expand capacity of secondary schools to encourage completion of



Attachment 1 of Annex A
Page 3 of 8
Reform Area
and Outcomes                                           Actons Taken                                       Medium Teri Measures for FY 2003.05
party user survey.                                             primary education for continuing education (FY03-05).
* Initiated separation of management and teaching cadres.      * Complete separation of teaching and management cadres (FY03).
* District cadre of officials created.                         * Complete district-based management and functional specialization
* Textbooks publication for grades 9-12 deregulated.              (FY03-04).
* Introduced results-based annual review/reward system for teachers.  * Expand deregulation and privatisation of textbook publishing to
* PTAs fomned in most schools, and funds for instruiconal materials and  cover entire education sector (FY03-05)).
minor maintenance disbursed through them.                    * Continue the esuls-based system of teacher evaluaton (FY03-05).
* Intrduced English as a medium of instruction in selected schools in two  * Complete formation of PTAs in primary schools, strengthen their
pilot districts.                                               functioning, and infftate secondary school PTA (FY03).
* Approved a program, including funding, for a province-wide periodic  * Expand English medium instnucion based on experienoes of pilot
student assessment system.                                     (FY03-05).
* Established an Education Sector Reform Unit                  * Continue to improve and expand the student assessment system
(FYO3-05).
* Implement cost recovery for secondary and higher levels (FY03-
05).
* Strengthen and make fully functional the ESR Unit to monitor and
oversee progress in reforms (FY03).
Health
* A lan, efficient, and specialized health     * Medium term health sector reform program approved.           * Approve PC-is for implementing the program by July 2002 and
system/service; improved management and     * Infitated health management and institutional reforms: restructured  release initial funding by August 2002.
capacity for analysis/policy and removal of gender  Health Department kept policy and reform functions at the provincial  * Pmvide MIEF programmed funding, induding full hnding for HMIS
inequality.                                    level and devolved service delivery to the districts.          (FY03-05).
* Increased access of patients to the level of service  * Established a Health Sector Reform Unit at the provincial level.  * Strengthen the capacdty of the Reform Unit for review, analysis,
needed; cost effective service; and reduction in  * Created a managenmnt cadre at both provincial and district levels.  monitoring, and policy recommendations (FY03).
demand at the tertiary level.               * Merged male and female cadres of doctors.                     * Develop a comprehensive plan for longer term sectoral reforms,
* Improved management and pernrfoance of major  * Approved a 3 year program to create additfonal positions for female  with the assistance of development partners (FY03-04).
hospitals.                                     nurses at the district and sub-disbict hospitals.           * Build skills of district managers in planning, needs-based budget
* Increased immunization of children under 2 years  * Approved by the concemed District Nazim a pilot plan for rationalizing  formulation, and personnel management (FY03-04).
from 54% to 84% in FY05.                       health services in one district with a graded and referral-based system  * Complete assignment of staff to the management cadre (FY03).
* Increased antenatal coverage of pregnant women  and appropriate staffing nomis.                             * Implement the program to create additional positions of nurses to
by health professionals from 34% to 45% in FY05.  * Granted autonomy to tertiary hospitals with detailed rules of business.  meet critical shortages at the distric and sub-district hospitals
* Increased coverage of TB control using DOTs  * Fostered public-private partnership in health care delivery.    (FY03-05).
strategy from 20% to 100% by FY05.          * Intrduced facility specific contract employment               * Extend phased rationalization of health facilties to other districts
* Developed and strengthened training programs for Lady Health Workers  based on detailed plans and mapping exercises (FY03-05).



Attachment 1 of Annex A
Page 4 of 8
Reform Area                                           Acdons Taken                                       Medium Term Measures for FY 2003-05
and Outcomes
(LHWs) and community based paramedical workers, including approval  * Complete a study on user charges with a safety net for the poor by
to hire 1800 addibional LHWs.                                   December 2002; put in place the safety net mechanism based on
Approved PC-is for strengthening EPI (with GAVI support), TB, and  the study (FY03).
Malara control programs.                                     * Continue to encourage community awareness/participabon and
private/NGO role in health care delivery, particularly in reproductive
health issues and in the TB DOTS program (FY03-05).
* Expand use of LHWs to provide primary health care; increase the
number of LHWs from current 7800 to 14000 (FY05).
* Extend TB DOTS coverage to an additional five districts (FY05).
5b                             -~~~~        ~~~ -;i7C  ImpivIij  s 1j,iitdo ri,ig FinancilAcciuintabflhfyj.-.-'n' 
Fiscal sustalnablllty
* A predictable and sustainable fiscal outlook;  * Approved a sustainable MTBF, FY 03-05.                     * Pro-poor allocatons/expenditures on track, as per agreed targets.
reduced debt burden; increased fiscal space;  * Approval to establish a Budget Analysis Unit.              * Implement FY03 Budget in accordance with MTBF.
increased expenditure on priority service delivery                                                         * Revise/extend MTBF annually for following three years.
areas; and increased fiscal discipline.                                                                    * Increase fiscal space for the province by: increasing own revenues;
systematically increasing user charges on various services; and
containing establishment budget.
Tax and User Charges Reform
*   Increased fiscal space.                    * Introduced an income-based Agriculture Income Tax (AIT).     * Achieve tax collections, including AIT, as per agreed targets.
*   More efficient and equitable provindal revenue  * Provincial taxes reduced from 22 to 9 to reduce multplicity.  * Complete AIT study by December 2002, and initate by April 2003
system.                                    * Restructured and enlarged the scope of the urban immovable property  implementaton to strengthen AIT collecton.
*   Increased cost recovery.                     tax (UIPT); rating areas increased from 18 to 27.            * Complete a study on taxaton potental in the province. (FY03).
*   Greater Reliance on own revenues.          * Outsourced and hamionized Motor Vehicle Tax.                 * Increase own revenues, provincial tax, non-tax revenues and user
* Enforced GST on Services.                                       charges by around 40% (FY05).
* Established a separate Excise and Taxation (E&T) Department   * Revise Stamp Duty Schedule. (FY03).
* Increased irrigation water charges (Abiana) in FY02 by 25%.  * Complete property tax survey (FY04).
* Approved study of AIT administration system to be undertaken in FY03.  * Develop a water rate fomiula based on water volume supplied,
starting with new schemes (FY04).
* Continue to implement phased increase in water rates to make at
least irrigation maintenance self-financed (FY05).
Expenditure Reforms
* Improved expenditure prioritsation; higher priority  * Established a Road Maintenance Fund to receive user charges and  * Restrict wheat procurement expenditures to maintenance of buffer



Attachment 1 of Annex A
Page 5 of 8
Rehrm Ama                                            Acdons Taken                                       Medium Term laums for FY 2003-05
-          and Outcomes
aloations to social services.                 finance road maintenance.                                     stocks (FY03).
* Allcations based on perfonnance and projected  * Incrased the share of developnent expenditures in total  * Confinue tD adequately finance the agreed program of sodal and
needs.                                        expenditures/receW                                            oher service (FY03-05).
* Improved cost recovey.                     * Significantly reduced the wheat subsidy.                    * Continue to Improve sermice delivery and increase user charges for
* Maintenance of public assets.               * Established a General Provident and a Pension Fund to manage   mads to make the Fund seff-finandng by FY05
* Better demand management                       deferred liablites.                                        * Continue to h  asreaslmatn the rafio of development
* Imroved service delivery.                   * Rationalized the development program by: reducing the throw forward of  expenditures.
projects by 65%, and nunber of pmjects by 213.              * Build up capital of Prvident and Pension Funds (FY04-05).
* Freeze on now hinng, except fhr social sectors, continued.
hoces Refonms
* Greater budgetary discipline; reduced red tape and  * Compressed the current three Depatmental expenditure submissions  * Iniffate preparaion of program and perfomrnance budgeting in a few
nultiple exercises; improved expenditure analysis  into one.                                                 Departnents on a pilot basis(FY03).
based on ecnomic functions.                * Substituted one mid-term Budget review (excesses and surrenders) for  * Expand perfommance budgesing to aDl Deparnents by FY 0.
the current two reviews.                                    * Review and further simplify the budgeting process, including
* Reduced the red tape by computerizing budget preparabon.       computerization (FY03).
* Revised policy and procedure for fimely release funds.       * Refine the budgetary dassification and make it an integral part of
budget documents (FY03-05).
*  Indude economic dassification of the Budget in the Annual Budget
Statement (FY04).
Flscal Devolufon
* Complete devolution of fiscal functions in line with  * Appointed a Provincial Finance Commfftee.          * Establish standing Provindal Finance Commission (FY03).
political and administative devolution.    * KPP and SAP funds released according to formula-based albcations in  * Approve Provincial Finance Awards (FY03).
FY02.                                                       * Separate District and Tehsil budgets (FY03).
* Assigned adequate staff to districts for fiscal management   * Review fiscal performance of districlstehsils each year and take
steps to imprve processes, allocation basis, staffing, and training
(FY03-05).
* Allocate all development and non-salary funds according to formula
based allocations (FY03-05).
Publik fnancial Management andAccountabilfty
* More reliable, comprehensive, and timely    * Adopted a Financial Management and Accountability Reform Program  *  Appoint Provincial Financial Controller (September 2002).
information on provincial and district goverment  (FMARP) that indudes: (a) 100% reconciled provindal and distnict  *  Complete PFM and prepare a time bound detailed Action Plan
financial transactions.                       *Pubric Financial Statements", (b) elimination of unidentified  (FY03-04).



Attachment I of Annex A
Page 6 of 8
Reform Area                                           Acftons Taken                                      Medium Term Measures for FY 2003-05
and Outcomes
* Improved financial management at all levels of  expenditures and financing, (c ) strengthening of District Accounts  *  Introduce NAM with the PIFRA computerized system, in all districts
govemnment                                     Offices and below (d) implementabion of New Accounbing Model (NAM),  (FY03-05).
* Increased credibility of provincial and bcal   wth PIFRA systems, and (e) computerization of payroll.       *   Implement capacity development plan, induding appointment,
govemment financial statements.             * Decision taken to appoint Provincial Financial Controller.      recruitment, and training of DAOs (FY03-05).
* Improved intemal controls, extemal audit, and  * Provincial Public Accounts Committee (PAC) established and decision  *  Phased improvement in reconciliation of Provident Fund accounts,
legislative oversight.                        taken to make it open to public.                                 and all assets and liabilities to achieve 100% (FY05).
* More open and answerable govemment.          * Decision to carry out a detailed Provincial Financial Accountability  *  Publish financial statements (half yearly from FY04 and quarterly
* Public availability of financial informtiaon.  Assessment (PFAA).                                              from FY05) of district govemments (FY04-05).
* Upgraded the DAO position to grade 18, for all major districts.  *  Establish an intemal audit unit for each ministry/department (FY03-
05).
*  Amend/enact rules for timely submission of audit reports to
provincial and district PACs for timely review by them (FY03).
*  Track auditors and PAC recommendations for implementation
using an MIS (FY03-05).
*  The adhoc PAC commences sessions open to the public (FY03).
*  Annual implementabon review of PAC and DAC directives (FY03-
04).
*  Complete by December 2002 a review of the financial positon
induding any contngent liabilities of public enterprises, ABs, and
similar bodies and publish their annual accounts with FY04 budget
(FY03-04).
Procurement
*   Improved public procurement                *  New Procurement Ordinance legislating the fundamental principles of  *  Revise provincial procurement rules and manuals to: standardize
*  Shortened procurement periods and reduced      good public procrement, approved by Govemor for enactment       bidding documents, establish an effective mechanism to redress
irregularities and complaints.                                                                                complaints, simplify the process, increase transparency and
*  Increased efficiency and transparency in                                                                      efficiency, and introduce a code of conduct and ethics for public
procurement                                                                                                   officials handling procurement (FY03).
*   Initiate procurement training programs for govemment staff (FY
03).
Autonomous Bodies (ABs)ZIPublic Enterprises (PEs)
* Complete disinvestments; better utlizabon of public  *  Closed three Agricultural ABs (Agriculture Development Authority, Fruit  *  Reduce share holding to less than 50% by FY04 and complete
management capacity.                          - & Vegetable Board, and Co-op Bank).                            privabsation of Bank of Khyber (FY05), market conditions
* No public sector role in providing goods and  *  Decision taken for privatsation of Bank of Khyber.             permit6ing.
services; enhanced economic efficiency, and                                                                *   Complete the legal dosure of three Agricultural ABs (FY03).



Attachment 1 of Annex A
Page 7 of 8
Reformn Ara                                          Acdons Taken                                       Medium Term Measures for FY 2003-05
and Outcomes
reduced risk of fiscal drain.                                                                             *  Privatize small hydel projects (FY03-05).
Transparency and Public Access to Budget
Documents.                                    * Decision taken to rake available the Budget document through an  * Continue/improve public access to Budget documents and their
Full transparency of fiscal position and activities;  authrized commerdal agent                             transparency (FY03-05).
expanded inter-face of the govemment and the  * Annual Budget Statement on the Website.                   * Improve coverage of fiscal accounts on the prvincial website
public.                                    * Monthly Summary Fiscal Accounts on the Website.                (FY03-04).
-.~~ l-  -   m#                          a----  
-  -  -              -~~~~~~~i~~~i~~  ~~~         mPodig'sustainahi .Grot       --       _f
Privafe Sector Development
* Streamiined and smaller public sector agencies  * Established a Private Sector Deregulabon Committee composed of
responsible only for promotion, facilitation,  govemment, business, and public representatives to review the business  * Complete a study on promobng private enterprise, including SMEs,
necessary regulation, informtibon, and technical  and investment environment and make recommendations.       in the province (April 2003).
assistance.                                * Completed integrationlmerger of various agencies relating to mining to  * Implement steps to improve business environment, induding
* A more liberalized, vibrant private sector for  improve focus, reduce establishment expenses, and expand exploration,  developing a private sector strategy (FY03-04).
promotion of growth and employment and reducfion  leasing, and mine safety activies.                      * Review the performance of public sector technical / vocational
in poverty.                                * Established a Mneral Investment Facilitabon Authornly.          schools and consider privatizing them (FY03-04).
* Increased investment, production/commerce, and  * Established a Gemstone Policy and Mineral Promotion Committee.  * Contnue to streamline and consolidate PSD activities and focus on
trade with Afghanistan.                    * Amended the Mining Concession Rules to allow entry of small-scale  promoEton, faclitation, and safety regulation (FY03-05).
* Increased productivity and growth in agriculture  entrepreneurs.                                           * Complete the ongoing divestiture of unsuccessful industial estates,
sector.                                    * Converted the Sarhad Development Authority into an Investment   PEs under SDA, and units under the Mineral Department and Small
Facilitation Authority for investnent prOmotion through a one-indow  Industries Board (FY05).
investment faciTty.                                         * Complete and start implementing the agricultural strategy (FY03-
* Decision taken to develop an agricultural strategy to reduce rural  05).
poverty, enhance productivity and value added of agriculture.
Road Service
* Improved road service.                      *   Established an autonomous Highway Authority, with public-private  * Make the Authority fully responsible and accountable for building,
 Lower maintenance cost of vehicles.             oversight, for planning and managing provincial highways; managing  rehabilitation, and maintenance of provincial roads.
* Better demand management                       the Road Maintenance Fund to recover user charges; maintaining  * Increase user charges in a phased manner, keyed to road usage
* Self-financing of road maintenance.            roads; and improving service derivery.                        and capacity to pay (FY03-05).
* The maintenance program to cover at least 15-20% provincial road
network each year (FY03-05).
* Make the Road Fund self-financing (FY05).



Attachment 1 of Annex A
Page 8 of 8
Reform Area                                           Acbns Taken                                       Medium Term Measures for FY 200W5
and Outcomes
Al=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                r-=2--=r -iin  16=i ZE-M hPvoiSen RX Im hi enta6n.-,. --' --
Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E) Mechanisms
* A more informed governance.                 * Completed the 40-variable socio-economic survey (NWFP Mutiple  * Repeat the MICS every 3-4 years (FY05).
* Better targeting of poverty and social sector  Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS), 2001).                     * Use the survey results for policy direction, poverty programs, and
programs.                                  * Approved a program for independent third party monitoring and user  better service delivery (FY03-05).  -  -
* Better tracking of perfomiance.               surveys.                                                     * Undertake user surveys annually (first survey initiated October
2002), and disseminate findings publicly (FY03-05).
* Collection of reliable provincial economic data by the Planning
Department/Federal Bureau of Statistics (FBS) (FY03-05).
* Prepare and make public annual M&E reports by Reform Units
(FY03-05), and post on website.
Reform Implementation
* Successful implementation of reforms.       * Established an Economic Reform Unit in the Finance Department  *  Monitor reform implementation as per the program, suggest any
reporting to the Govemor/Chief Executive on a quarterly basis.  adjustments, and help prepare the rolling 3-year MTBF (FY03-05).
Approved a communication and dissemination strategy on reform  *  Implement communication and dissemination strategy.
implementation.



Attachment 2 of Annex A
Page I of I
Monitoring Indicators
Areas and Indicators                 End-Period Targets (FY05)           Institutional Arrangements
for Monitoring
1. Overall
a) Provincial GDP growth rate   4-5 %                                         Planning and Development
b) Poverty (caloric)            38 % (down from 44% in FY99)                  Department; Source for
Poverty Data: PIHS Survey
every two years
2. Public Finance
a) Provincial Tax Revenue Growth  15% annual growth in FY03; 10% p.a. in FY04 & 05.  Quarterly Fiscal Monitoring
b) User charges                  75% increase over FY03-05                    Reports, Annual Budget
c) Pro-poor l-PRSP expenditures  From 29% of expenditures in FY02 to 35% in FY05  Statements of Department of
d) Development expenditures     From 26% of total expenditures in FY02 to 31 % in  Finance, and Annual Budgets
FY05
e) Maintain timely comprehensive and  100% computerizaton and reconciliation of civil  Department of
reconciled fiscal data using the  accounts.                                 Finance/Accountant General's
New Accounting Model                                                        Office
3. Social Sectors'
a) Gross primary enrollment rate  85% (up from 70%)                           PIHS, Annual EMIS,MICS,
b) Gross primary enrollment rate  84% (up from 54%)                           Annual Monitoring Reports
female                                                                      prepared by the Education
c) Reduction in primary school  35% (down from 45%)                           Sector Reforms Unit, and
dropout rates                                                               Third Party Survey
d) Girls school provided essential  100% by FY03                                        -do-
physical facilities                                                                   -do-
PIHS, Annual HMIS, MICS,
e) Full immunization % of children less  80% (up from 54%)                    Annual Report of the Health
than 2 years                                                                Sector Reform Unit and Third
f) % of population with access to TB  100% (up from 20%)                      party Survey
Control using DOTS                                                                    -do-
g) Antenatal coverage of pregnant  45% (up from 34%)                                    -do-
women by health professionals                                                         -do-
h) Contraceptive Prevalence Rate  35% (op from 21%)                                     -do-
4. Infrastructure
a) Population with access to safe  65% (up from 58%)                          PIHS, MICS
drinking water
b) Proportion of roads classified in poor 50% (down from 80%)                 Annual reports of CWD, and
condition.                                                                  Independent surveys
1 The baseline data is based on PIHS, EMIS and HIMS. During next year, GoNWFP will revise the targets taking into
account the new baseline based on the MICS 2001 report, once its findings are agreed by all stakeholders. In addition,
for Education, it will target and track the net enrolment targets based on the MICS.



Annex B
Page I of 9
POVERTY AND SOCiAL DEVELOPMENT IN NWFPI
1.     Poverty in NWFP should be understood in the broader context of poverty in Pakistan.2      In
addition, understanding issues specific to poverty in the province also requires examining the
concentration of poverty across areas within NWFP, which will help inform policymakers by identifying
priority needs and target groups for intervention. That said, this Annex is restricted to disaggregating
poverty at the regional (rural/urban) level within NWFP, recognizing that the important task of analyzing
district-level poverty and exploring variations across districts must await the availability of survey data
that is representative at the district level. The recently conducted Multi-Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS)
2001, is a first attempt to get district-level representative estimates in the NWFP. The preliminary results
form MICS show that there is considerable variation within the province in terms of poverty and social
indicators (see Table 2 Annex J). Districts of Kohistan, Upper Dir, Bunner, Batagram, Shanga and Tank
are among the poorest six districts in NWFP, ranking extremely low in terms of social indicators. More
detailed assessment of within-province poverty and social development would be possible in the future,
once the MICS data is available for analysis and the survey is repeated every 3-4 years as planned.
2.      Among the major provinces of Pakistan, NWFP is by far the poorest, with an overall incidence of
poverty substantially higher than that for the country as a whole (poverty headcount for NWFP is 44%,
compared to 33% for Pakistan). As shown in Table 1, both urban and rural poverty in NWFP are higher
than that for the 'entire country (poverty headcounts for urban and rural NWFP are 31%    and 47%
respectively, compared to 24% and 36% respectively for all of Pakistan). Moreover, depth and severity
of both urban and rural poverty, measured by poverty gap and squared poverty gap respectively, are
relatively higher for NWFP than for the rest of the country. Consistent with the poverty estimates,
average per-capita consumption expenditures are also lower for NWFP vis-a-vis the rest of the country.
Inequality in NWFP, as measured by the gini coefficient for per equivalent adult consumption, is very
similar to that for the country, in rural and urban areas alike.3
3.      The overall picture of consumption /income poverty in NWFP thus corresponds closely with that
of Pakistan as a whole-higher concentration of the poor in rural areas, lower average consumption levels
in rural areas, and relatively higher inequality in urban areas. Moreover, as Table 2 shows, the 15
percentage point rural-urban gap in headcount rates for NWFP in 1998-99 is higher than that for the
whole of Pakistan and second only to Sindh among all provinces. The high rural-urban gap has all the
more significance for overall poverty in NWFP, since the province is much more rural than the country as
a whole-around 85% of NWFP's population live in rural areas, compared to about 72% of the country's
population. Meanwhile, the rural areas of NWFP account for around 90% of the total number of poor
people in the province.
' This Annex draws heavily on the work done under the Bank's AAA Poverty in Pakistan in the 1990s: An Interim Assessment,
draft report 2001. Some of the social indicators in this note differ from those noted in Annex G and H, which are based on the
Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) reports because of differences in definitions used for the same indicators. For
instance, in this Annex, literacy ratios are for population 15 years and above, whereas the PIHS use population 10 and above for
their calculations.
2 The source for all data, unless otherwise specified, is the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (1998/99).
3 Note that overall gini for NWFP is slightly lower than that for the country, while urban and rural ginis are identical; this
apparent paradox is caused simply by the fact that NWFP is significantly more rural (in terms of share of population) than the
country as a whole, which means that rural gini is weighted more in the average gini for NWFP than for Pakistan.



Annex B
Page 2of 9
Table 1: Mean Consumptlon, Inequality and Poverty: 1991/99
Urban    Rural   Overall
1. Mean per-capita monthly consumption (current Rs)
All Pakistan                      1193    819       924
NWFP                            1071    735       785
2. Inequality (Consunmption Gini4)
All Pakistan                      0.35    0.25     0.31
NWFP                            0.35    0.25      0.28
2. Poverty Headcount (%)
All Pakistan                      24.2     36       32.7
NWFP                            31.2    46.5     44.3
3. Poverty Gap
All Pakistan                      5.0      7.9      7.0
NWFP                            6.6     10.5      9.9
4. Severity of poverty (squared poverty gap)
All Pakistan                      1.5      2.5      2.2
NWFP                            2.2      3.4      3.2
4.  Table    2    shows    how                    Table 2: Incidence of Poverty by Province and Region
poverty    in    NWFP       has                        (199899)                  (199091)
changed    over   the   decade.                         Urban    Rural    Overall   Urban    Rural   Overall
From    1990-91   to  1998-99, Punjab                    26.5     34.7     32.4      29.4    38.5      35.9
urban    poverty   in   NWFP      Sindh                  19.0     37.1     29.2      24.1    30.8      27.6
declined    substantially   (by   NWFP                   31.2     46.5     44.3      37.0    40.6      40.0
close    to    6    percentage                           28.4     24.0     24.6      26.7    20.9      22.0
points)-even more than the        Balochistan
decline   in   national  urban    Azad J & K              14.5    15.7      15.6
poverty.           Meanwhile, Northern Areas             22.6     37.9      36.5
incidence of poverty in rural     FATA                     .      44.5     44.5
NWFP      increased  by   more    National                24.2    36.0      32.7     28.0    36.9      34.0
than 4 percentage points over
the same period, although rural poverty headcount for the country actually fell slightly over the same
period.   Unlike Punjab, the largest and most populated province in Palistan, where rural and urban
poverty alike have shown modest declines over the decade, poverty reduction in the 1990s in NWFP
appears to have occurred only in urban areas while rural areas have become poorer on the average.
However, it is also important to note that notwithstanding the decline in urban poverty in NWFP during
the decade of the 1990s, urban areas in this province still remain the poorest in the country by a large
margin.
Characteristics of the Poor
5.      Understanding the nature of poverty requires looking beyond the limts of poverty as defined by
lack of consumption, and examining the characteristics of poor households to identify the non-income
dimensions of poverty. In this context, it is useful to draw correlations between consumption/income
poverty and various household characteristics. Although such correlations will not be enough to establish
4Gini coefficient for per equivalent adult consumption expenditure (using equivalence scale: I child = 0.8 adult).



Annex B
Page 3 of 9
a causal relationship, they do help address the question of who the poor are, as well as provide rough
indications about why they are poor.
6.      Firstly, the poor are more likely to live in larger  Table 3: Poverty Headcount by Household Size
households (Table 3). Poverty incidence is found to                CategorIes: NWFP (1998-99)
increase rapidly as household size increases: from  a   Household Size    Urban     Rural    Overall
headcount rate of well below 20% for households of size  1-2               0.0       2.7      2.3
5 and below, to 34% for those of size 6 to 7, and 57%   3-5                8.4      20.8      18.9
for those of size 11 and above.   While these simple                        .         .
calculations do not take into account the well-known    6                  18.3     37.2      34.0
"scale  factor"  in  consumption,   which   tends   to  8-10               44.0     49.9      49.1
underestimate the per person consumption in large        11-15             40.1     60.0      56.9
households vis-a-vis smaller ones, the differences in
poverty incidence in Table 3 are large enough to reflect  >16              39.4     61.6      58.6
a true negative correlation between household size and
poverty.5
7.      Poverty is expected to be strongly associated with lack of asset ownership, an important
component of which is agricultural land in rural areas. The average size of agricultural land owned by
poor households is 0.25 hectares in rural NWFP, compared to 0.71 hectares for the non-poor. As might
be expected, and following the pattern seen in national figures, rural poverty headcount falls as the size of
land holdings increases. However, the decline in poverty incidence is marginal as landholdings increase
upto 2 hectares-headcount falls from 48% among landless households to 44% among those with 1 to 2
hectares of land-and then sharp, to 33% among those with 2 to 4 hectares, and 12% among those with
more than 4 hectares of land (Table 4). This suggests that small and marginal landholders are almost
equally poor as those who own no land, while poverty among large landowners is significantly lower.
8.      There are a few observations that
can be made on comparing the pattern Of       Table 4: Rural Poverty Headcount by Household Land Ownership (I998
landholdings in NWFP vis-a-vis the rest of   -% of Populaton In
the country. Table 4 suggests that inequality  Land Ownership    Poverty H [eadcount  %    artoi
in land ownership in rural NWFP is lower     Category            Rural     Rural    Rural     Rural
________________ Pakcistan  NWiFP  Pakistan  NWIP
than the average for the rest of the country.
For the country as a whole, 61% of the rural  No Land Owned      40.3      47.7      61.4     54.9
population belongs to households that own    >0- I hectare       33.8      44.9      18.4     35.6
no land, while 7%    has landholding of 4    >1 -2 hectare       29.5      43.6      5.9      4.4
hectares  or more.     The   corresponding   >2 - 4 hectare       22.4     33.3      7.0       3.7
numbers are 55% and 2% for rural NWFP,
suggesting  that land  ownership is less     I4 hectre           12.8      11.5      7.3      1.5
concentrated there than for the rest of the country. Moreover, as Table 4 shows, a very large majority of
landowners (36% of the rural population) in NWFP belong to the category of small and marginal farmers,
namely those who own between 0 and I hectare of land, compared to the country on an average (18% of
the rural population).
9.      The relatively low land inequality in NWFP also comes through from       looking at average
landholdings of the poor and the non-poor. The poor, on the average (median), own 0.25 hectares of land
5 The "scale factor" of the household is not taken into account, since consumption is computed on a per equivalent adult basis. In
other words, the possibility that larger households enjoy economies of scale in consumption would mean that these may actually
be less poor than the calculations here reveal. Adjusting for this kind of bias, however, is difficult, since it will require detailed
knowledge of consumption of individual household members - not available from standard household expenditure surveys.



Annex B
Page 4 of 9
in rural NWFP, compared to 0.71 hectares for the non-poor, while the corresponding figures for the
country are 0.4 hectares and 1.4 hectares respectively. Thus, lower inequality aside, both the poor and
non-poor in NWFP own less land than the same groups in the rest of the country on the average, a fact
that is entirely consistent with the previous observation that there are relatively few large landowners in
NWFP.
10.    The implications of less concentration of land ownership, and the prevalence of small
landholdings for agriculture productivity and poverty is important to consider, particularly in the context
of the high rate of rural poverty observed in NWFP. This is however too complex a question and needs to
be one of the subjects of a detailed analysis of the rural economy of NWFP. Such an analysis should also
seek to identify the key constraints to rural incomes and productivity in the province - whether the issue
of access to land is of crucial importance, or whether other factors, like lack of access to factors like
infrastructure including irrigation and credit, play equally critical roles.
11.    Poverty, as expected, is strongly associated with lack of human capital, measured by the
education and literacy status of the head of the household. Poverty headcount among those living in
households with literate heads is around 54% in NWFP, compared to 26% for households where the head
is not literate-a difference of 28 percentage points which is even greater than the 21 point difference
seen for the country as a whole. Moreover, poverty headcount in NWFP as well as in the country as a
whole declines steadily with increase in the education of the head of the household (Table 5). Finally, it
appears that for NWFP and the entire country alike, poverty declines more steeply with literacy and
increased levels of education - especially for relatively higher levels of education of middle school and
above - in urban areas than in rural areas. This is as expected, since returns to education are likely to be
higher in urban areas, where better opportunities to utilize the skills provided by education are likely to
exist.
Table 5: Poverty Headcount by Literacy & Education of Household Head (1998-99)'
Urban                 Rural                  Overall
All Pakistan  NWFP   All Pakistan  NWFP     All Pakistan  NWFP
Non-liteate               39.5      43.9       42.9        54.8       42.3        53.6
Literate                  15.4      18.7       25.1        27.9       21.3        25.9
Never attended school     38.8      44.0       43.3        54.8       42.5        53.6
Cl. 1-5 (primary)         26.8      41.2       30.7        33.7       29.6        34.9
Cl. 6-9 (middle)          18.7      30.9       25.8        34.2       23.3        33.5
Cl. 10-II (matric)        13.0      12.2       20.0        26.7       16.8        23.2
Cl. 12 (intermediate)     8.2        3.1       17.6        21.2       12.1        14.8
College & above           4.5        0.6        6.5        9.8         5.3        6.3
a) Literacy rates have been calculated here for population 15 years and above.
12.    Occupational status of the household head is another important factor likely to be associated with
poverty (Table 6). In urban NWFP, employment of the household head as related to poverty does not
show clear patterns, partly due to lack of detailed employment data. One observation that stands out is
that a much larger proportion of households in the bottom quintile of expenditure have the head of the
household working as paid employees, than for the urban population as a whole. This may be because a
large proportion of the paid employees in the urban sector are engaged as wage labor in the informal
sector, which is known to be a significant employer in urban areas.



Annex B
Page 5 of 9
Table 6: Distribution of Population by Expenditure and Occupation of Household Head (NWFP) (%)
.Own     Unpaid            Owner      Owner      Owner     Owner
Consumption         Not   EmI        account   faid      Paid   Cultivator Cultivator  Cultivator Cultivator Share-
Expenditure Group worMdng  mployer worker/self- worier employee  (<1 hec  (1 to <2 bec (2 to <4 hec (>4 hec  cropper
employed                      land)      land)      land)    land)
RURAL
Bottom Quintile 1   20.1     0.3      16.9      0.7      27.3     24.8        0.7        1.4      0.0      7.9
Quintile 2          26.7     1.6      16.5      0.5      28.8      13.3       2.2        1.2      0.0      9.2
Quintile 3          18.7     1.7      15.0      0.7      31.2     18.2        5.1        1.5      0.4      7.6
Quintile 4          22.6     1.3      15.4      0.5      28.3     22.3        1.3        0.7      0.4      7.3
Top Quintile 5      35.6     1.7      15.8       0.6     22.0      12.8       2.0        1.1       1.2     7.2
Overall population  24.7     1.3      15.9       0.6     27.5     18.3        2.3        1.2      0.4      7.9
Mean Monthly p.c.   828     1067       720      661      699       669        688       703       1467     656
Consumiption  (Rs.) __ _ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ ___                                            _ _ _
URBAN
Bottom Quintile 1   23.3     0.1      25.9      0.0      47.0      1.4        0.5        0.0      0.0      1.8
Quintile 2          19.7     0.0      25.9      0.7      39.1      11.5       1.2        0.0      0.0      1.9
Quintile 3          33.9     2.6      21.4      0.0      35.6      2.7        1.5        0.0      0.0      2.3
Quintile 4          30.6     1.5      30.4      0.0      30.0      2.5        0.0        0.4       0.0     4.7
Top Quintile 5      28.1     3.9      29.1      0.0      37.5      0.4        0.0        0.0      0.2      1.0
Overall population  27.1     1.6      26.5      0.2      37.9      3.7        0.7        0.1       0.0     2.3
Mean Monthlyp.c.    1137    1267      1106      706      1028      724        672       1385      3168     868
Consumption (Rs.)         .         ..._ ,__ __
13.      In rural NWFP, the poor households are relatively more likely to be headed by individuals
working as a paid employee, a majority of whom are likely to be wage labor in farms, or as an owner-
cultivator with less than I hectare of land. For instance, while 25% of the bottom expenditure quintile
lives in households whose head belongs to the latter category, only 13% of the top quintile does so.
Again, however, the pattern of employment does not tell a clear story of relationship between
employment and incidence of poverty.
14.      The poor in NWFP also suffer from lack of connectivity to a number of services, which has direct
implications for their human development. As Table 7 portrays, the poor have relatively low access to
safe drinking water and sanitation facilities: they are less likely to use closed sources of drinking water
and be connected to a drainage system. As expected, the poor are also less likely to be connected to
electricity.
15.      Availability of all these amenities is characterized by large rural-urban gaps in NVWFP, just like
for the country as a whole (Table 7). Also, in terms of access to safe water and connectivity to drainage,
urban and rural areas alike of NWFP fare significantly worse than the country as a whole. While 58% of
the population in NWFP use piped or closed sources for drinking water, 80% of the country do so; while
35% of NWFP is connected to any form of drainage system, the same is true for 47% of Pakistan. Low
access to critical amenities in NWFP-combined with the fact that the poor suffer from especially severe
lack of connectivity to these facilities, and also that poverty in this province is higher than the country



Annex B
Page 6 of 9
average - would necessarily mean that income poverty is also associated with a high degree of health risk
in the province. That said, as Table 7 shows, in terms of connectivity to electricity, NWFP does better
than the average for the rest of the country in both urban and rural areas.
Table 7: Access to Amenities, Induding Sanitation, Drinidng Water, Electricity, etc. (1998/99)
(% of Po ulation with Access In Each Case)
Cloed/ipe Sorce Connected to  Connected to                    Net
for Drinidng Water'  Any Drainage    Electricity    Literacy      Net
System7                                     Rate
NWFP
Poor                      50.1             28.3           72.1           22.7         38.0
Non-poor                  64.7             40.2            81.7          40.7         58.9
Rural                     53.6             27.3           74.5           30.2         45.8
Urban                     85.4             80.1           94.6           50.2         66.5
Overall                   58.3             35.1            77.5          33.4         48.6
All Paldstan
Rural                     74.1             30.7           63.3           33.5         45.2
Urban                     94.2             89.1            92.4          63.1         66.5
Overall                   79.8             47.1            71.5          42.5         50.5
Non-Income Dimensions of Poverty: Human Development
16.     Poverty is multi-dimensional, manifested not only in low levels of consumption, but also that of
human capital, exacerbated by the inability to undertake investments to improve skills. Exploring the
human dimensions of poverty would thus be critical in understanding not only the nature and extent of
deprivation in NWFP, but also the extent to which such deprivations translate into lack of capability to
enhance future economic opportunities. As might be expected, the poor in NWFP are characterized by
relatively low levels of human development, as indicated by various education and health indicators.
Table 7 shows that in urban and rural areas alike, poor households have lower literacy rates among
members (23% of all poor are literate, compared to 41% of the non-poor), and lower net primary
enrollment rates (38% among the poor, compared to 59% among the non-poor).
17.     It is also important to note-from   Table 8-that for NWFP, almost every education or female
health indicator is found to be lower than the corresponding country average, with the sole exception of
male net primary enrollment. For instance, female literacy rates in rural and urban NWFP are 11% and
35% respectively, compared to the already low country averages of 17% and 52% respectively; pre-natal
consultation rates in rural and urban NWFP are 20% and 36% respectively, compared to country averages
of 22% and 60% respectively. As far as rural-urban gaps are concerned, they exist for all indicators in
NWFP, but tend to be smaller than those for the country as a whole. This should however not be
construed as a positive feature, since the smaller gaps in NWFP are mostly caused by its urban areas
lagging behind the rest of the country, rather than by the rural areas doing better than the rest of the
country.
6 Includes piped water, and outside, closed water sources. These sources of drinking water are potentially safer than the
altemative: "outside, open" source. However, access to potentially safer sources does not guarantee safety of the drinking water
from these sources. The proportion of population with using piped/outside open sources is thus merely indicative of the
?roportion of the population with access to safe drinking water.
Includes underground, as well as open drain systems.



Annex B
Page 7 of 9
Table 8: Selected Human Develo ment Indicators (1998-99)
Mate  Female      Male Net     Fermle Net     Pre-natal        Ever Use
Male       Fernale      Primary       Priy         Consultation  Contraception (% of
Literacy  Literacy Enrollment   Enrollment     Rate (% of   Married Women of
Rate (%/.)  Rate (M)     Rate (%)       Rate (o)    Pre gancies)     A e 15-49W n
Rural:
NWFP             51.5        11.4         57.9           32.8          19.6            13.9
Pakistan         51.0        16.8         53.6           36.4          22.0            14.3
Urban:
NWFP             65.5        35.2         73.4           59.3          36.0            27.2
Pakistan         73.2        52.3         68.5           64.6          60.1            34.1
Overall
NWFP              53.8       15.1         60.0           36.4          21.6             15.8
Pakistan         58.0        27.2         57.2           43.6           31          .19.5
a)  Literacy rates have been calculated here for population 15 years and above.-
b)  In Annex G, the contraceptive prevalence rate is shown as 21% which is based on a family planning survey conducted in 2001.
18.     Comparing the education indicators of NWFP with the country averages, it is also apparent that
while adult literacy rates in the province (33% on the whole) are found to lag far behind those for
Pakistan (43%), the gap with the rest of the country is marginal for enrollment rates (49% for NWFP, and
51%   for Pakistan). This suggests that although the spread of education in NWFP has historically been
deficient, there is reason to be optimistic about the future, as rising enrollment rates close the gap in
educational attainment between the province and the rest of the country. However, this optimism must be
tempered by the observed gender gaps: while male net primary enrollment rates for NWFP are higher
than the corresponding country averages for rural and urban areas alike, female enrollments still lag
behind those for Pakistan.
19.     Gender gaps are significant for all relevant indicators in NWFP, as they are for the country as a
whole. Following the pattem seen in the country, gender gaps tend to be wider in rural areas than in
urban areas of NWFP. Moreover, gender gaps in NWFP are found to be more severe than for the country
as a whole. For instance, the gender gap in literacy rates in rural and urban NWFP are equal to 40 and 30
percentage points respectively, compared to corresponding gaps of 34 and 21 percentage points for the
country. The fact that a similar picture emerges for primary enrollment rates also suggests that under
present conditions in NWFP, gender gaps in educational attainment are likely to persist, and even widen
in the future.8, unless corrective action is taken as being proposed under the PRP.
20.     Further analyses have revealed that gender gaps in Pakistan, as well as for individual provinces,
tend to be similar for both poor and non-poor households. However, since educational attainment among
the poor is generally low in the first place, large gender gaps necessarily translate into particularly low
literacy and enrollment rates among poor women, with adverse implications for future human
development - since women's education is known to be especially critical for child health and education.
21.     Looking across the spectrum of human development indicators, a consistent pattem that emerges
is one of rural and urban areas alike in NWFP comparing poorly with the corresponding areas of the rest
of the country on the average. The story of NWFP lagging behind on most indicators of human
development is entirely consistent with that of income/consumption poverty, where both urban and rural
sThe gender gap in net primary enrollment rates in rural and urban NWFP are equal to 25 and 14 percentage points respectively,
compared to corresponding gaps of 18 and 4 percentage points for the country



Annex B
Page 8 of 9
areas of NWFP are found to be poorer, on the average, than corresponding areas in the country taken as a
whole.
Access to Schools and Health Facilities in Rural NWFP
22.      Among the number of factors that may constrain human development in rural NWFP, access to
facilities is potentially important, and also measurable from existing data sources. As Table 9 shows, on
availability of education facilities in rural areas, NWFP in fact fares rather well, not only relative to rural
Pakistan, but also in absolute terms. For instance, for more than 91% of the population of rural NWFP,
the    nearest   primary
school for girls is I km              Table 9: Access to Schools In Rural Areas (% of Rural Population) (1998-"99)'
or less distant from  the
village   they   live  in,                            Punlab   Slndh   NWFP    Balochistan  Azad J&K  paidstan
compared to 79% of the      Nearest Girls' Prim School
population     of   entire  InPSUor<=] kmdistancel°    90.2     45.6    91.1      41.3       100.0      78.7
rural           Pakistan.
Moreover,    almost the     Distance >I & <6 km         7.2     22.0     5.7       6.1        0.0        9.7
entire rural population     Distance  6 km              2.6     32.4     3.2      52.7        0.0       11.6
of   NWFP       lives  in   Nearest Boys' Prim School
villages    where     the   In PSU or <=l km distance  95.0     94.8     99.6     90.5       100.0      95.4
nearest primary school
nearet prmary   choo  Disance 1 & 6 km4.0          4.8     0.4       3.5        0.0        3.4
for boys is 1 km. or less   Distance >l & <6km
distant.                    Distance   km6 k            1.0     0.4      0.0       5.9        0.0        1.1
23.      On   access  to  rural
health   facilities,  a  similar           Table 10: Access to Health FadlIties In Rural Areas by Province (1998-99)
story prevails for rural NWFP                       % of Rural Population with Health FadlIties In  % of Rural PopI.
vis-a-vis  the   rest   of  the                                   PSU/village                      with Family
country (Table I10). By any                        Hospital,   Hospital, Dispensary,  Any Health  Planning Facility
Dispensary or   Clinic or Health   Facility or   within 3 km. of
defiition of health facility,                      Clinic"          Worker          Worker'2          PSU
rural NWFP       enjoys  better
availability     than     rural    Punjab            38.2            54.4             70.8            79.6
Pakistan   on   the  average.13    Sindh             36.9            56.5             62.5            65.3
Around    76%    of the    rural   NWFP              54.3            63.5             75.9            72.1
population of NWFP lives in
villages with some kind of         Balochistan      54.9             58.1             60.4            60.9
health    facility  or   health    Azad J & K        55.9            68.1             71.3            81.7
worker, which is the highest       Rural             42.0            5735
among all provinces. Access        Pakistan                          56.4             69.1
to family planning services is however slightly low for NWFP than for rural Pakistan as a whole.
9 Access to schools here refers to the presence of any school (public/private/NGO/religious). The proportion of public schools,
however, in rural areas is high in the total number, so that the access figures in Table 9 do not change much if only public schools
are included.
' PSU refers to Primary Sampling Unit of the survey, which in rural areas is the village.
" All public and private hospital, dispensaries and clinics (including BHUs, RHCs, Mother & Child Clinics, and Famnily Welfare
Clinics).
12 Includes private practitioners and nurses
13 Various definitions of health facilities include combinations of hospital, dispensary, clinic, health worker, private practitioners,
and nurses.



Annex B
Page 9 of 9
24.    Thus on the whole, rural NWFP compares well with the rural parts of the country as a whole in
terms of incidence or availability of health and education facilities. This is encouraging by itself, and can
be expected to lead to better education and health indicators in the long run. At present however, the
relatively high availability of facilities does not appear to translate into commensurate outcomes in health
and education where, as seen above, NWFP tends to lag behind the rest of the country. While the higher
(relative to the country) rural male primary enrollment rate in NWFP is consistent with the almost
universal availability of male primary education, female primary enrollment in NWFP lag behind rural
Pakistan, in spite of far higher incidence of girls' schools in the province.
25.    This apparent puzzle may be explained by a number of factors. Social and cultural mores,
particularly as they relate to demand for girls' education or use of health services for females, may play a
role; lack of income or wealth may also depress demand for education.14 Equally important is the fact
that the figures listed above are but imperfect measures of access. Firstly, the mere presence of a facility
is not enough to guarantee quality, or even that the facility is functional. Quality problems in education
and health facilities, according to a number of studies, are rampant in Pakistan, and the conditions in
NWFP are similar which can be ascertained only after careful study. Secondly, these measures do not
account for the exclusion of social groups, which are also likely to have high concentration of poverty,
from services and facilities. Both these problems can significantly reduce the effectiveness of services for
the poor and disadvantaged groups, thereby affecting their potential to develop skills and enhance future
economic opportunities. Recaping the above, the PRP is attempting to address the quality and
governance aspects, to improve service delivery of education and health.
14 Regression analyses have shown household's economnic status to be an important determinant of school participation, for entire
Pakistan and individual provinces alike.



Annex C
Page I of 6
DEVOLUTION AND INTER-GOVERNMENTAL FISCAL FRAMEWORK FOR PAKISTAN AND NWFP
1.     This note presents intergovernmental arrangements in Pakistan as of May 2002 with particular
emphasis on the situation of NWFP. We present the intergovernmental arrangements, divided in three
parts: institutional framework, responsibilities/expenditures, and revenues.
Institutional Framework
2.     Pakistan is a two-tier federal state with 4 provinces Punjab, Sindh, North -West Frontier Province,
Balochistan), various special areas (tribal-FATA, northern) and a federal district (Islamabad). Local
governments are established provincially through local government ordinances. A new set of local
governments were created under the Local Government Ordinance (LGO) 2001 which replaces the LGO
1979. The changes included: (i) the abolition of three levels of provincial administrative units, divisions,
districts and tehsils and of the existing municipal bodies (municipalities and towns); and (ii) the creation
of three country-wide levels of local governments: districts (called city districts in the four provincial
capitals) tehsils/talukas (called towns in the four city districts),and union councils. There are also
cantonment boards that administer the civilian part of military cantonments.
3.     The three new types of local government bodies are not a legal hierarchy, but are linked as a
political set-up as follows:
*   Each Union council is composed of 21 directly elected members elected in a multi-member
constituency on a non-party basis.
*   The Nazim and Naib Nazim (mayor and deputy mayor) are elected on a joint ticket.
*   The Nazim of the Union Council then becomes e.x-officio a member of the District council.
*   The Naib Nazim of the Union council becomes ex-officio a member of the Tehsil council.
The remaining 19 seats on the Union Council are allocated as follows:
* Twelve muslim seats, four of which are reserved for women.
* Six seats for peasants and workers, of which two are reserved for women.
* One seat for minority communities, where appropriate.
4.     The Union Councils councillors are the Electoral College for the District/Tehsil councillors at
large and the District (Tehsil) Nazim and Naib Nazim, none of which can be Union Council councillors.
District   (TehsilVTown)   councils    are
composed of the Union Council Nazims                    Elections to Local Bodies In NWFP
(Naib Nazims).   Seats have been reserved           Elections to Union councils took place on four dates in
within District and Tehsils Councils for     various districts: December 3l , 2000; March 2l , 2001; May 31,
women such that women represent 33% of       2001; and July 2nd 2001.
the total number of Union Councils in the
District, and 33%  of the total number of           These were followed by elections of councilors at large
and Nazims/Naib Nazims at the District and tehsil levels in
Unions in the Tehsil. In addition, 5%  of    August/September 2001. They were held in a fair and impartial
District and Tehsil seats have been reserved  manner with little violence involved; were contested by a large
for peasants (countryside)/workers (cities),  number of newcomers to politics at the Union Council level,
and 5% for minorities. Thus, overall, District  including women and peasants-workers. While the significant
councils and Tehsil councils are made up of  political office of district Nazim and Naib Nazini were in many
councis andTehsi councls ar madeup of cases held by someone with previous political experience, many of
about 2/3 directly elected members and 1/3   those elected as Union councillors were often new entrants to
indirectly elected, including the two most   politics - many coming from community and NGO backgrounds.
powerful ones, the Nazim (Mayor) and the
Naib Nazim (Deputy Mayor).



Annex C
Page 2 of 6
5.      These local governments are supported by civil servants posted to districts and paid by the
province out of a notional district budget wage item. Staff appointed to District governments is drawn
from both Federal and provincial cadres. The Senior Officer in the District is the District Coordinating
Officer (DCO) who replaces the former Deputy Commissioner (DC), and, in a key change, now reports to
an elected politician, the Nazim. The majority of DCOs are drawn from the DMG (District Management
Group) of the Federal Civil Service. Nazims may request the transfer of a DCO. Below the DCO is an
administrative structure of 10 to 12 Executive District Officers (EDOs), who are responsible for various
sectors. For the EDOs, the key change is that they now report to the DCO and not to the line ministries in
the former divisional/provincial hierarchy.
Responsibilities and Expenditures
6.      Responsibilities of the
federal government and      the                        Table 1. Federal and Provincial Powers
provinces are set out in the                                                     S a  Pvc  Pervice
1973 Constitution of Pakistan                 e              R   Efena    i
under  Article   70(4), Fourth ~ ~ ~               Posts and Telegraphs
Schedule. One finds a list of                          7j,-I  Ft  ERnad  aff ais
federal powers (in two parts)                                    Freign Exchand e
and a list of joint powers for        b                          ForeigExchange
the   federal  and   provincial          2      r                Lnstitutes for Research
orders of governments. Such a        Federal     nment    I      Ports and Aerodromes
list is called a concurrent list in  Jt     i               $    Shipping
British type constitutions; in                 >                 Stock ExchanRes
this    case    the     federal                                  G oroI tloical Surveys
govemment has paramountcy,                                       M MXteorologicl Surveys
which means that in case of           .Railwas
conflict   federal   legislation                                 Mineral OInd ustries
prevails.     Provinces   have
residual powers.  There is no   IF    ~~~)~J~I   Population Planning
Curriculum Development
list  of exclusive   provincial                                  Sylus Planning
powers but some mention of          ..   r     P      ovn t Ti   Centers of Excellence
them   in  the  two   lists  (as       o rnments                 Tourism
exceptions).        Table     I                                  Social Welfare
summarizes the constitutional              .   4j,j    4      i .   pVocational/Technical Training
Q, l g             I7    Historical Sites and Monuments
7.        The      powers      of    .                   Z       Law a  OrJustice
districts, tehsils/talukas, and      t$IL       j4,        1     Tertiary Health Care and Hospitals
union councils are described in      'rf                         Highways
Table 2. It shows that districts     Princo       rna            Urban Transport
V4l'I,~                   Secondary and Higher Education*
are  mainly   responsible, for       yjo   4                     Agricultural Extension
human capital type services,                                     Fertilizer and Seeds Distribution
education   and  health, while                                  Lrrigation *
Land Reclamationa
tehsils and, to a lesser extent       According to Federal Legislative List; b' According to Concunrrnt Legislative List
union councils, are responsible       The federal govemment through the University Grants Commission (UGC) funds University
for the provision of rhunicipal       Education, but administrative control is provincial govemments.
type services.                      *- Development of irrigation is a federal subject.



Annex C
Page 3 of 6
Table 2. Responsibilities of Districts, Tehsils, and Union Coundis, Paidstan, 2002
Responsibility                District                       Tebsil                  Union Council
Education             Primary and secondary education, Literacy  X                X
Health                Dispensaries and local hospitals  X                         X
Roads                 District roads                    Local roads and street    Local streets
Water                 X                                 Water supply systems      Wells and Ponds
Sewers and Sanitation  X                                Yes                       X
Fire services         X                                 Yes                       X
Parks playgrounds     X                                 Yes                       Yes
Animals               X                                 Slaughterhouses, Fairs    Cattle pounds and grazing areas
Cultural and sport services X                           Fairs, cultural events    Libraries
Street services      X                                  Street lighting ,signals  Street lighting
Varia                 x                                                           Register births and deaths
Source: Analysis of Local Government Ordinance 2001. An X indicates no rcsponsibilities.
Revenues
8.      The financing of the various levels of governments in Pakistan is somewhat complex due to the
large use made of intergovernmental transfers. Figure I summarizes the main elements as of 2002.
Provincial Revenues
9.      The main source of'provincial revenues is a transfer based on a share of federal tax collections.
The decision on the list of taxes to be shared (the "divisible pool"), the ratio of the provincial/federal
share of the pool, and the formula for its distribution to the provinces is to be fixed at least once every five
years (Constitutional provision) by the National Finance Commission (NFC). The NFC members are the
federal Finance Minister, the finance ministers of each of the four provinces, plus other members as the
President chooses. The NFC last rendered an Award in 1996, allocating to the provinces 37.5% of the
divisible pool distributed to the provinces according to population (based on the 1981 Census of
Population).
10.     This divisible pool, which is about Rs. 430 billion in FY02, is made up of the income tax (Rs. 150
billion), sales tax (Rs. 180 billion), and revenues from customs (Rs.70 billion), federal excises, and wealth
and capital value taxes (Rs. 30 billion). In addition, various other tax transfers and grants are also made
by the federal government to the provinces. This includes some federally ceded taxes, referred to as
straight transfers, that are returned to the provinces on a derivation basis net of a 2% federal collection
charge (e.g., royalties on petroleum and on natural gas, surcharges, and excise on natural gas. The
National Finance Award is now under review. Various possibilities are under study both with respect to
the size of the provincial share of the divisible pool and the distribution formula. At present, only
population and backwardness criteria (for NWFP and Balochistan) is used.
District/Tehsil/Union Councils Revenues
11.     Districts are entirely funded by the transfers of resources by the provincial government in 2001-
2002. Until devolution, districts were budgetary units of provincial governments and, as result, did not
have autonomous revenues. Even now, the Districts rely primarily on provincial funds - earlier these
were budget line items, now they are accounting/real transfers. Thus implicitly there is total reliance on
federal-provincial transfers. Indeed, district budgets for 2001-2002 were prepared by the provincial
finance departments and then approved by the Zila councils in the fall of 2001. Tehsils have inherited
from their various predecessor urban bodies both the Urban Immovable property tax (UPT) and the
Octroi/ZilaTax (OZT) replacement grant revenues. Union Councils do not have own revenues and are
dependent on development funds granted by the district councils.



Annex C
Page 4 of 6
Figure 1
Intergovernmental Financial Relations in Pakistan, 2002: a Schematic Exposition
Federal Revenues
Divisible pool revenues           Unshared
Straight      V  37.5%         V 62.5%         Reve es
transfers
of taxes
to           Provinces                Federal
provinces                 Grants to
provincesorovinces             |KP     | 
OFZTI
Provincial                  *  Provincial revenues
revenues        
Districts transfers  Provincial
Current:             spending
*   Salaries         Cur
*   non salaries         Develop
-ment
4
. ~OZT
District _
Union               Spending
Council             Development                                   esl
own        /        budget                                       spending
revenues
U vion                     CCB
Union councils                    project
Development budgets               funding
Tehsil
own revenues
(UIPT, user fees)



Annex C
Page 5 of 6
Provincial Revenues
12.   The main source of provincial revenues is a transfer based on a share of federal tax collections.
The decision on the list of taxes to be shared (the "divisible pool"), the ratio of the provincial/federal
share of the pool, and the formula for its distribution to the provinces is to be fixed at least once every five
years (Constitutional provision) by the National Finance Commission (NFC). The NFC members are the
federal Finance Minister, the finance ministers of each of the four provinces, plus other members as the
President chooses. The NFC last rendered an Award in 1996, allocating to the provinces 37.5% of the
divisible pool distributed to the provinces according to population (based on the 1981 Census of
Population).
13.   This divisible pool, which is about Rs. 430 billion in FY02, is made up of the income tax (Rs. 150
billion), sales tax (Rs. 180 billion), and revenues from customs (Rs.70 billion), federal excises, and wealth
and capital value taxes (Rs. 30 billion). In addition, various other tax transfers and grants are also made
by the federal government to the provinces. This includes some federally ceded taxes, referred to as
straight transfers, that are returned to the provinces on a derivation basis net of a 2% federal collection
charge (e.g., royalties on petroleum and on natural gas, surcharges, and excise on natural gas. The
National Finance Award is now under review. Various possibilities are under study both with respect to
the size of the provincial share of the divisible pool and the distribution formula. At present, only
population and backwardness criteria (for NWFP and Balochistan) is used.
District/Tehsil/Union Councils Revenues
14.   Districts are entirely funded by the transfers of resources by the provincial government in 2001-
2002. Until devolution, districts were budgetary units of provincial governments and, as result, did not
have autonomous revenues. Even now, the Districts rely primarily on provincial funds - earlier these
were budget line items, now they are accounting/real transfers. Thus implicitly there is total reliance on
federal-provincial transfers. Indeed, district budgets for 2001-2002 were prepared by the provincial
finance departments and then approved by the Zila councils in the fall of 2001. Tehsils have inherited
from their various predecessor urban bodies both the Urban Immovable property tax (UIPT) and the
Octroi/ZilaTax (OZT) replacement grant revenues. Union Councils do not have own revenues and are
dependent on development funds granted by the district councils.
OZT
15.   Until 1999, urban bodies such as municipal corporation or town committees collected Octroi
(import taxes levied by municipal entities at their borders on goods imported for resale) while rural ones
collected Zila Export taxes on agricultural goods exported out of rural (then called " Zila") councils.
Together, the octroi (collected largely in urban areas) and zila (rural area) taxes accounted for 50% to
60%-of autonomous local revenues. While productive of revenues, both taxes (which when combined are
referred to as the OZT) were inefficient and a source of corruption at the point of collection.
Accordingly, they were abolished in May 1999 by the Inter-Provincial Coordination Committee (IPCC)
as of fiscal FY00 with the agreement that the federal govemment would come up with a replacement
grant to be paid to urban bodies, now the Tehsils.
16.   In FY00, the federal govemment implemented a 2.5 % point increase (from  12.5% to a 15%) in
the General Sales Tax (GST) in all of Pakistan, including NWFP, that was distributed directly to local
bodies as a revenue replacement grant (OZTRRG). For FY01 and subsequent years, arguing that the 2.5
percent of the GST was generating an amount well in excess of the initial Rs. 19 billion (Rs. 30 billions
in FY01), the federal govermnent broke the direct link between the OZT and 2.5% points of GST by



Annex C
Page 6 of6
placing the 2.5% of the GST proceeds in the divisible pool to be then divided between provinces
according to the NFC formula.
UIPT
17.   Tehsils also have access to (a pre-devolution) Urban Immovable Property Tax (UPT) and various
fees and user charges. The UIPT, which contributes only 3% to 5% of total tehsil revenues, is
administered and collected by the provinces, with 80.75% of collections remnitted to tehsils and the
remainder retained by the provinces.



Annex D
Page I of 13
FISCAL RESTRUCTURING AND MEDIUM TERM BUDGETARY FRAMEWORK
Background and Issues
1.     The finances of the Government of NWFP are characterized by an almost complete dependence
on the federal government (and WAPDA - a federal corporation) for revenue resources, and a skewed
and rigid expenditure structure dominated by establishment and debt servicing costs. Divisible pool
transfers, subventions from the federal government, and transfer of hydel profits from WAPDA constitute
90% of overall provincial revenue (Table 1, page 3). The provincial finances and budget implementation,
therefore, are highly vulnerable to the fluctuations of federal revenue collection and shortfalls and delays
in transfer of hydel profits from WAPDA.
2.     Chronic shortfalls in federal revenues have rendered provincial budget-making difficult and often
unrealistic. Federal Transfers to NWFP, while continuing to contribute about 87 percent of total receipts
during the last 5 years, have turned out to be well below the projections under the NFC award. Shortfalls
in actual divisible pool transfers against NFC projections reflect poor revenue collection by the federal
Government, but shortfalls in transfers of subvention grants and hydel profits have introduced a large
degree of uncertainty into NWFP's budgetary operations. The timing of resource transfer from the
Federal Government has also been skewed and unpredictable, forcing the GoNWFP to access expensive
money from Ways and Means Advances and adversely impacting provincial budgetary operations and
project implementation.
3.     The present fiscal situation presents a dilemma for the provincial governnent. On the one hand,
the excessive dependence of provincial revenue on federal transfers leaves very little room for the
province to absorb the shortfalls in federal transfers or create much needed fiscal space through
mobilization of its own revenue, at least in the short run. On the other hand, creating space through
cutbacks in provincial expenditures have served to aggravate provincial liabilities because they have only
deferred expenditures on maintenance of physical infrastructure and human development and under-
funding of pension and other obligations.
4.     Ad-hoc transfer of expenditure responsibilities, especially for financing the Annual Development
Program (ADP) and the Khushhal Pakistan Program (KPP), without a corresponding transfer of
resources, has led to increased fiscal stress for the province and significant shortfalls in these important
expenditures. In anticipation of a significant increase in revenue transfers, the federal government
discontinued the Cash Development Loans (CDLs) to the provincial governments in FY01, thus making
NWFP responsible for financing the entire local components of its development program (Rs 3.2 billion)
from its own resources. Furthermore, the bulk (Rs 1.94 billion) of the funding responsibility for the KPP,
which was launched in FY00 with federal financing, was also transferred to the provincial government
during FY01. Moreover, NWFP was also asked to bear a number of unforeseen one-time expenditures
during FY01 on account of giving an Eid bonus to its employees (Rs 300 million) and local bodies
elections (Rs 141 million). These responsibilities added to the fiscal squeeze on the province.
5.     Revenue receipts from the Federation and WAPDA have historically been unpredictable: actual
transfers are significantly below beginning of the year projections, and receipts are often delayed.
Moreover, according to the 1992 government decision, NWFP was to receive from WAPDA on account
of hydel profits Rs.9.4 billion in FY98 rising to Rs.14.3 billion in FY02. However, WAPDA's
deteriorating fiscal situation has led to both capping transfers at Rs.6 billion, and to an erratic pattern of
transfers with end of year bunching, and often requiring pressure by the federal government on WAPDA.
In FY01 the federal government (and WAPDA) transferred about Rs 4 billion to the province in the last
two weeks of FY01, making it impossible for the provincial government to fully utilize the funds during
the fiscal year. The lower and erratic transfers have resulted in expensive borrowing by the province, as



Annex D
Page 2 of 13
well as in unplanned cuts in expenditures, which often fall on development and non-salary O&M
expenditures where the province has greater discretionary authority.
6.     The province has a weak revenue base. First, all major broad-based and buoyant taxes are
constitutionally in the domain of the federal government. The only relatively broad-based taxes left to the
provinces are taxes on agriculture and property. Compared with other provinces, NWFP faces a handicap
in effectively utilizing these taxes. The provincial government's ability to generate significant revenues
from the agriculture sector is limited due to the dominance of small farms. UIPT and Stamp Duty on
transfer of urban property, two major revenue sources in Punjab and Sindh, are adversely affected by the
small size of the urban sector in NWFP and the large proportion of cantonment areas, which fall outside
the provincial domain. Inadequate tax effort has further contributed to the stagnation of provincial own
revenues over the last three years.
7.     The structure of provincial expenditures is extremely rigid. Provincial expenditure is dominated
by establishment costs (pay, allowances and pensions), which preempts more than 40% of current
expenditures, debt servicing (20%), and the food subsidy (10%). Hence a full 70% of provincial
expenditure is unadjustable in the short run, implying that in times of fiscal stringency, disproportionate
cuts have to be applied to already low O&M or development expenditures.
8.    Provincial development expenditures also suffer from  too much dependence on Federal
government priorities andfederal andforeign-funded programs which do not reflect provincial needs and
proprieties. Development expenditures in the past were financed from borrowed resources, mainly
expensive (interest rates of 15% and above) Cash Development Loans (CDLs) from the Federation. The
total provincial debt in FY01 was Rs. 69.8 billion (almost 200% of total revenue receipts of the province),
half of that on account of CDLs, with debt service claiming 25% of total revenues. There is also lack of a
strategic focus in the development program which reads more like a series of projects rather than a well-
defined program; many of which are under-funded and poorly prioritized. Another problem with the
development program is that it fails to take into account future recurrent expenditures and does not
allocate fimds for O&M which impacts on the future delivery of services. Better prioritization of the
development plans within a medium term budgeting framework is a major focus of the Provincial Reform
Program.
9.    In summary, establishment costs are large with very little left for non-wage and expenditures on
O&M and expansion of services; there are rigidities in the division and classification of expenditures;
public investment is not geared to strategic objectives and needs of the province; and budgetary and
expenditure management based on short-term goals and objectives.
10.   Financial management has been weak and accountability and internal control suffered severe
erosion. While systems and procedures were in place, these were ignored leading to poor quality of
public accounts and lack of reconciliation of accounts. The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) was
dysfunctional for over a decade and Departmental Account Committee (DAC) meetings were held
irregularly, resulting in a significant erosion of financial management capacity. Successive governments
introduced several layers of checks and balances-to try to reduce abuse-making financial release
procedures very cumbersome. This lead to delays in implementation of programs. Annex E discusses
strengthening public financial management.



Annex D
Page 3 of 13
Table 1: NWFP - Govemment Receipts, FY98FY02
(Rupees million)
Budget     9 months
FY98         FY99        FY00         FY01        FY02         FY02
Revenue and Grants                         25775       27555        30590       33821        36294       22201
Federal tax assignment                   13554       14422        16567       18573        19550       12409
Provincial taxes                           862         969         1286        1360         1408        1111
Direct taxes                              291          305         341          370         441          284
Agriculture income tax                    42          45           71          23           50          34
UIP tax                                   54          62           67         136          140          82
Land revenue                             177         176          172         177          200         143
Indirect taxes                            570          664         945          991         967          827
Provincial excise                         12           17          16           15          20           15
Motorvehicletax                          312          357         417          444         452          352
Stampduty                                116          113         142          139         140          114
Electricity duty                           7            6         265          220         233          294
Non-tax Receipts                           7820        8054         7860        7885         7583         1996
Interest and Dividends                     122          110          92          150          35           20
Hydel profits from WAPDA                  6000         6000        6000         6000        6000         1700
Civil Administration Receipts              152          149          182         180          258         163
General administration                     52           46          32           33          108          59
Law and order                             101          102         150          147         150          104
User Charges                              1042         1107        1153          988        1066          693
Community services                        197          219         229          175          193          88
Social Services                           304          246          345         262          283         148
Education                                217          122          162         165         170           .84
Health                                    86          121          180          95          110          62
Economic Services                         540          642         578          550          590         457
Agriculture                               75           89           83          83           90          73
Forestry                                 265          349         262          254          220         192
Irrigation                               144          146          170         185          250          92
Other Receipts                             504          687          432         568          160          97
Federal Government Grants                  3527         4019        4871         5689         7453        6685
Subvention grant                        3310         3647         3882        3828         4249        2980
Other development grants                 217          372          989          69          704        1164
KPProgram/ESR                              0            0            0        1793         2500        2541
Foreign grants                               12           92            6         313          300           0
Total Receipts                             26539       28132        31619        34523       37144        21560
Percent of Total Recipts
Provincial taxes                            3.2          3.4          4.1         3.9          3.8         5.2
Direct taxes                               1.1          1.1         1.1          1.1         1.2          1.3
Indirect taxes                             2.1         2.4          3.0          2.9         2.6          3.8
Non-tax Receipts                           29.5         28.6         24.9        22.8         20.4         9.3
Hydel profits from WAPDA                   22.6        21.3         19.0         17.4        16.2          4.6
User Charges                                3.9         3.9          3.6          2.9         2.9          3.2
Federal Government Grants                  13.3         14.3         15.4        16.5         20.1        31.0
Source: Govemment of NWFP, Staff calculatons.



Annex D
Page 4 of 13
11.   Execution of the budget in FY02 through the third quarter is largely on track, with improved
revenue collection and expenditures as per the budget plan. Collection of electricity duty has been higher
than anticipated and other taxes are largely on target. Collection of user charges reached 65 percent of the
budgetted amount despite lower collection of 'abiana' on account of drought and water supply shortfall.
Federal tax transfers have been slightly lower than anticipated due to lower collections at the federal
level; however transfer of hydel profits were only Rs.1.7 billion out of the 'capped' Rs.6 billion for the
year. Substantial federal grants for development, KPP and subvention have offset some of the others
shortfalls in total revenue receipts. On the expenditure side, outlays are just above 60 percent of the
budgetted amount for the whole year, but expected to pick up in the last quarter with removal of
procedural bottlenecks to transfer of funds to the districts.
Reform Program and Medium Term Budget Framework
12.    The provincial government knows that in order to achieve its reform objectives of accelerated
broad-based development, poverty reduction and improved service delivery, it is imperative to put
provincial finances on a more sustainable footing and create fiscal space. The government has approved a
Medium Term Budgetary Framework (MTBF) for improving the allocation for priority development
expenditures over the medium term. To attain this goal, the government has already taken a number of
actions to restructure its finances, and others are being actively considered. Besides initiating some
important budgetary reforms, a number of actions have been taken to mobilize additional revenues from
provincial sources, restructure provincial expenditures, reduce interest payments through debt
management and improve the budget and financial management. Some of the key actions are listed
below:
Revenue Mobilization
13.   Actions Taken. The provincial govemment has made revenue mobilization an important element
of its reform program with the aim of financing the necessary infrastructure, improving social services
and enhancing private sector activity. Under the Provincial Reform Program (PRP), the govemment plans
to rationalize and simplify the revenue structure and systems. The objective is to have fewer revenue
heads, simplify revenue administration, minimize collection costs, and match funding needs with the net
tax burden on citizens. The govermment has taken a number of actions in this regard over the last two
years and more are planned. Some of the key actions taken include the following:
(i)    Imposition of agricultural income tax: While retaining the land tax (see Table 2A for the tax
schedule), a full-fledged provincially collected income tax has been levied on all farmers with an
annual income of Rs 80,000 or more (see Table 2B).' The land tax is levied without any
exemption limit, a feature that distinguishes the agricultural income tax in NWFP from that in
other provinces. The govenmment expects to collect around Rs. 50-60 million in the next two
years from agricultural income taxes. It also expects to collect an additional Rs. 66 million per
year from the land revenue due to rate adjustment.
(ii)    The govemment of NWFP has agreed to undertake a study on revenue potential from land tax
and AIT, reorganization of AIT administration and up-grading of training and skill development
in FY03. The govemment plans to impart tax payer education and assistance.
See the attached Land Tax and Agricultural Income Tax Ordinance, dated July 27, 2000.



Annex D
Page 5 of 13
Table 2A: Schedule of Land Tax
Farm Size                                        Annual Tax
Up to 5 acres of cultivated land                 Rs 50 per acre
Land not exceeding 12.5 acres                    Rs 72 per acre
Land exceeding 12.5 acres                        Rs 100 per acre
Matured orchards                                 Rs 300 per acre
Note: The tax rates apply to irrigated land. For tax purpose of tax, one acre of irrigated land
would be considered as equal to two acres of un-irrigated land.
Table 2B: Schedule of Agricultural Income Tax
Income Category                                        Annual Tax
Where net taxable agricultural income                  5%
Does not exceed Rs 100,000
Where net taxable income exceeds Rs 100,000            Rs 5,000 plus 7.5% of the amount
but does not exceed Rs 200,000                         exceeding Rs 100,000
Where net taxable income exceeds Rs 200,000            Rs 12,500 plus 10% of the amount
but does not exceed Rs 300,000                         exceeding Rs 200,000
Where net taxable income exceeds Rs 300,000            Rs 22,500 plus 15% of the amount
exceeding Rs 300,000
(iii)   Restructuring of the Urban Immovable Property Tax (UIPT): NWFP has made a major effort to
restructure its UIPT by making the tax formula-based and shifting from area-based to factor-
based (i.e. based on plot size, covered area, and age of the property, location, etc.) assessment.
(The Ordinance amending the NWFP UIPT was promulgated on August 13, 2001). Moreover,
UIPT has been extended to additional 9 rating areas (from 18 to 27) in the province. Revenues
from this source more than doubled from Rs. 67 million to Rs. 135.6 million between FY00 and
FY 01 as a result of the restructuring and revaluation of the UITP.
(iv)     Privatization and harmonization of Motor Vehicle Tax (MVT). NWFP is the first province that
has outsourced the collection of MVT to the private sector. A private firm is responsible for
collecting MVT in Peshawar (at Rs 15 per vehicle). In order to avoid shifting of the (mobile) tax
base to the least taxed province/area, Punjab, Sindh and NWFP have recently agreed to
harmonize their MVT rate structure.
(v)      Simplification and rationalization of the provincial tax structure by reducing the number of taxes
or 22 to only nine. With the levying of GST on certain services in FY01, the province abolished
taxes on the services that were brought into the GST net. Also a number of minor taxes such as
the entertainment tax on cinema houses (generating 0.02% of total receipts), video license fees
(generating Rs. 1.3 million in FY01) have been abolished. The net gain from these measures
was Rs. 183.5 million in FY01 (Rs 35 million loss due to abolishing services and entertainment
taxes and Rs. 218.5 million gain from GST on services).
(vi)     Extension of the Tobacco Development Cess (TDC) to open market transactions: The TDC was
levied at Rs 2 per kg on the quota of tobacco allotted by Pakistan Tobacco Board to various
manufacturing factories. Since the quota covered only half of the production, the TDC was
extended to open market transactions to widen the tax net. This is expected to generate Rs. 50
million annually.



Annex D
Page 6 of 13
14.    Rationalization of user charges for provincial services: The provincial government has made a
decision in principle to rationalize user charges, especially on economic and tertiary level social services.
Errigation water rates ("Abiana") are increasing by 25% annually. The higher Abiana rate increased
collection by Rs. 23 million (from Rs. 163 million in FY00 to Rs. 186 in FY01). Fees on driving licenses,
tests of motor vehicle fitness, applications and tests conducted by the provincial Public Service
Commission, etc. have been revised upward. Driving license fee increase had led to increased revenues of
Rs 5 million. Uses charges for tertiary level heath facilities and higher education fees have been revised
upward and are planned to be further increased in FY03.
15.    Establishment of Excise and Taxation Department: In November 2000, tax collection functions
of the Finance Department were separated and given to the newly established Excise and Taxation (E&T)
Department, with the mandate to collect all provincial taxes except stamp duties and those related to
agriculture, which are in the domain of the provincial Board of Revenue (BOR). The new E&T
Department was initially installed in 17 out of the 24 districts but it has now been expanded to all districts
of the province.
Expenditure Management
16.    Actions Taken.  The provincial government aims to improve expenditure management to
complement revenue measures in order to create fiscal space and maximize the benefits from limited
resources. It has taken following measures for containment of establishment costs:
*   Abolished all vacant posts
*  Froze all new appointments, except in health and education.
*  Banned accelerated promotions.
*   Stopped the facility of medical treatment abroad.
*  Abolished recruitment of contingent paid staff in the Works Department.
*  Banned up-gradation of posts.
*  Fixed ceiling on POL charges according to grades.
*  Fixed ceiling on office and residential phones.
* Disposed of surplus vehicles, which earned Rs 240 million.
17.    Contract employment: A decision has also been taken that all new recruitments will be on
facility-based contracts. This should reduce the government's pension and G.P. Fund liabilities. The
government is reviewing the contract employment policy to devise a policy that suits provincial job
requirements and also provides savings where possible. Initially this will be piloted before being adopted
more generally. Three categories of posts are being defined: (i) regular recruitment in core government
positions; (ii) task-specific fixed term appointments; and (iii) location specific jobs.
18.    nheat subsidy: The province had been spending more than 10% of its expenditure on the wheat
subsidy. The subsidy absorbs the differential between the procurement price and the issue price (the price
at which wheat is sold to the flour mills). With the procurement price rising higher than the market price,
the wheat subsidy had increased sharply in recent years.2 The main beneficiaries of the generalized wheat
subsidy in NWFP (as in other provinces) are the flour mill owners rather than farmers. The government
intends to discontinue the program to provide wheat to flour mills to remove the subsidy, starting with
FY03, retaining only the strategic buffer stock maintenance role with government. After covering arrears
on wheat procurement3, the government expects to save about Rs. 1.5 billion annually.
2 In FYOI, on the basis of estimated procurement of 1.6 million of tons, the provincial budget allocated Rs 3.4 billion for the
wheat subsidy. Another Rs 3 billion has been earmnarked for this purpose in NWFP's FY02 budget.
3 The current arrears are: Rs 345 million to MINFAL, Rs. 2.5 million to PASSCO and Rs. 500 million to the Government of
Punjab.



Annex D
Page 7 of 13
19.    Debt retirement.  The Government plans to retire Rs.6.3 billion of expensive debt (cash
development loans) over three years in three tranches of Rs.2.1 billion each. The most expensive
components of this debt carry an interest rate of 17.7%. As a result, total debt service is projected to
decline significantly over the medium term (para. 29).
20.    Utilization of overextended public infrastructure: A decision has been taken to utilize vacant
public buildings as schools wherever possible. Other vacant buildings are to be used to provide offices
for the new local governments. A few school and college buildings, which remain unutilized after school
hours, have been rented out to private sector providers of education services (mostly computer institutes),
which will augment resources for the education sector. Expression of interest have been invited to use
other buildings for second shifts.
21.    Restructuring the development budget: On the development side, the past tendency of starting a
large number schemes with limited development resources has led to thin-spreading of the development
budget, which caused considerable delays in completion of schemes, cost escalations and erosion of
economic and social returns. Furthermore, overloaded development programs created a large number of
facilities that could not be operationalized due to paucity of funds and/or other operational reasons. The
provincial government has taken bold steps to tackle this problem by better prioritizing development
schemes, and by dropping most new and relatively new schemes from the development budget. As a
result of this restructuring and prioritization, the ADP portfolio has been reduced by 2/3 from 1,125 on-
going projects in FY99 to 375 projects in FY01, with a reduction in throw-forward liabilities of 62% from
Rs 24 billion to only Rs 9 billion. Further reductions in the number of projects and the throw-forward of
liabilities are planned within the current fiscal year.
22.    Establishment of criteria for prioritizing development projects: The govemment has devised the
following criteria for financing schemes from the development budget: The first priority is on-going
foreign assisted projects and poverty alleviation schemes; second, on-going schemes with financial
progress of 75% followed by 50% completed or more; and third, new schemes for primary and girls
education, health, water supply and sanitation. In the event of revenue shortfalls, the govenmment has
decided to protect pro-poor expenditures especially in education and health. The govemrnment is already
monitoring poverty related expenditures in the context of the I-PRSP. The PRP supplements and is
consistent with the I-PRSP.
23.    In addition, other measures and decisions taken to contain overall recurrent expenditure, improve
the efficiency of govermment agencies and manage the government's debt, include the following:
*  Privatization of about 10 small hydel plants (1-1.5 MW) run by SHYDO for which Expression of
Interests have been invited.
*  Winding up of a number of public enterprises and autonomous bodies4 .
*  Streamlining of the remaining autonomous bodies e.g. Sarhad Development Authority (SDA),
Small Industries Development Board (SIDB), Sarhad Industrial Development Board, etc.
*  Establishment of statutory General Provident Trust Fund and a Pension Fund.5
*  Establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund to receive user charges and maintain the road system.
*  Establishment of the Hydel Trust Fund to fund new hydel schemes6.
*  Promoting private-public partnership in delivery of provincial services.
*  Initiation of self-financing schemes in higher educational institutions.
4More details on autonomous bodies are in Annex F on Public Financial Accountability and Management in NWFP.
5Both these funds have been notified as an act of the NWFP Provincial Assembly on March 8, 1999.
6 For instance this Trust Fund would be receiving proceeds from new schemes like Malakand III which is a 80 MW scheme that
is expected to earn Rs. 600-800 million per year.



Annex D
Page 8 of 13
Budgetary Reforms
24.   Actions taken. The budgetary procedures have been streamlined: A number of practical steps
have been taken to make the budgeting process simpler and more realistic. These include:
*  Better assessment/projection of receipts from the federal government in light of chronic
shortfalls. The provincial government has opted to budget for some of these expected shortfalls
by projecting both federal revenue transfers and KPP grants at 5% lower than those budgeted by
the federal government. In the past, provincial budgets used CBR revenue projections, but had
experienced 5-10% shortfall in actual revenue assignments to it. Unlike past practices the
government is no longer permitting spending commitments to be made against net hydel profits
above the capped amount of Rs 6 billion. Shortfalls in hydel profits (Rs 8.3 billion in FY02,
based on the 1992 formula) were put in a special category ("unallocable") Spending agencies
have been allocated funds, which, in the view of Provincial Finance Department, could be
financed from the expected overall revenue receipts, excluding the unallocable amounts. This has
made the budget more realistic.
*  The policy for release of budgetary funds by the Finance Department has been modified to better
enable the line departments to discharge their expenditure responsibilities. Compared with the
past practice of transferring non-salary and development budgets through quarterly releases, the
new policy has the following schedule of budget releases:
Development Budget: 50% in July and 50% in January
Non-Development Budget: 10% in July, 40% in August, and 40% in January7
*  Preparation of the Annual Budget Statement (ABS) on the IMF fiscal format which is in line
with the format adopted by the federal government. This would make the budget more transparent
and would give a better idea of the province's budgetary practices.
*  Posting fiscal data on the web (www.brain.net.pk/-nwfpfin/fin_site).
*  Discontinuation of the process of preparing and presenting a three-part recurrent budget by
merging the continuing new expenditures with the permanent budget. This has reduced the
paperwork and saved time in processing three budget requests.
*  Substituting the two budget reviews with one mid-term review again to save time and duplication
of effort.
*      Computerizing budget preparation to reduce red tape, streamline procedures and improve budget
analysis
*      Moving up the date for preparing revised estimates of expenditure for the ongoing fiscal year
from June to March, and the cut-off date for re-appropriation of funds from one head to another
from June to April 30. This move is likely to reduce the end-year rush on the budget and would
ensure a smoother spending stream.
25.    Fiscal Decentralization: NWFP has been the fore-runner in terms of preparing for the devolution
of state functions, authority and finances to the district (and lower level) governments. The province
prepared District recurrent budgets for FY02, which greatly facilitated the functioning of the new district
governments in the initial year of devolution. It also made significant allocations in the development
7 10% is kept as a cushion to deal contingencies/shortfalls.



Annex D
Page 9 of 13
budget for schemes to be executed by the district governments. The District Development Committees
can now approve schemes up to Rs 10 million. Moreover, the Planning and Development Department
has devised an objective, indicator-based formula to distribute development funds among district
governments. These indicator based formulae were used for KPP and SAP in the past.8 The KPP formula
has been further refined. The new formula gives the following weights: 30% for population; 20% for
education indicators (primary school going population, out of school children, and illiteracy); 10% for
health indicators (population per institution and per doctor); 10% for population without access to rural
water supply; 10% for Urban population; 10% for lag in road infrastructure; and 10% for lag in rural
sanitation. and would be used to allocate the Annual Development Plan from FY03.
Medium-Term Budget Framework
26.    The provincial government has adopted a Medium-Term Budget Framework (MTBF) FY03-05.
The MTBF will be published as an attachment to the Annual Budget Statement. This is based on the
realization that the present mode of budgeting has a number of weaknesses (e.g., short-term focus, input-
based, basically incremental in nature, etc.) and does not facilitate achievement of the government's
reform objectives. In addition, the government plans to initiate performance budgeting for the Education,
Health, Police and Judiciary in FY03 and extend it to other sectors in FY04.
27.    The revenue enhancement effort underlying the MTBF is shown in Table 3.
Table 3: NWFP -Additlonal Fiscal Space as a result 9 of Fiscal Reform
(Rs. Million)
FY03              FY04         FY05
Increase in Revenues
Provincial taxes                     229             316           391
Non-tax Receipts                      78              78           78
User Charges                         436             576           706
Dedine in Expenditure
Subsidies                            1450            1450         1450
Interest payments                     0               179         33610
Total Fiscal Space created             2193            2598         2960
28.    Taken together, the tax and non-tax revenue measures are significant, and are expected to
generate Rs. 300 million in provincial taxes and non-tax receipts in the first year, increasing to Rs.470
million in FY05. Provincial taxes are forecast to increase by 15% in FY03 and by around 10% per annum
over the subsequent two years. In addition, receipts from higher user charges are projected to increase
significantly, growing by Rs.436 million in the first year, and reaching Rs.706 million in FY05 (higher
fuel toll tax, water charges, and tertiary health and education fees). User charges will initially jump by
37% and continue increasing by 14% per annum in the following two years. The above noted efforts
reflect a considerable revenue effort by the Province, considering the weak initial base. As a result of
these increases, the GoNWFP is likely to become eligible for Rs.100 million from   the Federal
Government in FY03 for fiscal effort in accordance with the NFC award.
8 The current KPP formula allocated funds by assigning a weight of 40% for population, 30% for lag in social infrastructure and
30% for lag in physical infrastructure.
9The figure shown in each year is increase over the trend with out reforms.
1 Savings of Rs.494 million in FY06.



Annex D
Page 10 of 13
29.     Additional savings will be generated by rationalizing expenditures; the largest gain will come
from reducing the untargeted wheat subsidy which has mainly benefited intermediaries. About Rs. 1.5
billion a year is expected to be saved on account of the withdrawal of wheat subsidy. The government
will continue to spend about Rs.500 million to manage a minimal strategic wheat stock maintained for
food security purposes in the province. In addition, the savings from improved debt management are
expected to be Rs.179 million in FY04 and Rs.336 million and Rs.494 million, respectively, in the
following two years.
30.      The net effect of the measures, noted in paras. 27-29, will be to generate fiscal savings of Rs.2.2
billion, in the first year, increasing to nearly Rs.3.0 billion by FY05, and cumulatively totaling Rs.7.8
billion over the FY03-05. This is equivalent to over 50 percent of total provincial own-resources during
the same period. Roughly 40% of this accrues from measures to enhance revenues, and the rest from
expenditure savings.
31.     Proposed Increase in Development Expenditures under the MTBF. The reform program aims to
significantly expand the reach and quality of service delivery in education, health, gender-focused
programs, and economic and community services.           Resources will also be required to finance
infrastructure O&M, infrastructure up-gradation, and extension of infrastructure. Table 4 summarizes the
key additional expenditures.
Table 4: NWFP * Proposed Increase in Development Expenditures 11
(Rs. Million)
FY03              FY04          FY05
Educafion                                1400              2000          3000
Health                                   400               1000           1500
Agriculture Services                      654               380           380
Community Services                        500               500           500
Increase in Pro-Poor Development           2954              3880           5380
Expenditures
Souce: NWFP Govemment, Staff estimates.
32.     Table 5 summarizes the aggregate fiscal picture during the period FY03-05, reflecting the above
revenue measures, enhanced development expenditures, fiscal restructuring and overall financing gap.
1 1 The figure shown in each year is the increase over the trend without reforms. Thus, for example, in case of education, total
development expenditures (including those proposed under PRP) amount to Rs 2.0 billion (FY03), Rs. 2.7 billion (FY04) and Rs.
3.9 billion (FY05).



Annex D
Page 11 of 13
Table 5: NWFP - Summary of Medium-Term Budget, FY99 to FY05
(Rs. Million)
Projections
FY01        FY02 rdaP;-i              IN
Federal Transfers                           30262       33003       34116        37022       40248
Federal tax assignment                    18573        19550       21700       24087         6937
Subvention grant                           3828         4249        4716        5235         6011
Hydel profits from WAPDA                   6000         6000        6000        6000         6000
Other grants                                1862        3204        1700        1700         1700
Provincial Resources                         3948        3777        4374         4742        5136
Provincial taxes                           1360         1408        1624        1784         1945
User Charges                                988         1066        1457        1665         1898
Non-tax & Capital Receipts                 1601         1303        1293        1293         1293
Total Receipts                              34523       37144        38861       42143        16170
Current Expenditure                         30278       30196        32980       34347        15908
of which:Social services                   10442       10282       11308       12385        13517
Interest payments                          7151         7009        6628        5944         5328
Subsidies                                   1450        1000           0           0            0
Development Expenditure                      5898       10413        11754       13987        16299
of which:Social services                    686          720        3687        4819         5560
Total expenditure                           36247       40608        44734       48333        52207
Overall Deficit                             *1724       *3465        -5873       *6191       -6037
Financing                                    1724        3465         5873        6191        6037
Foreign Project Assistance (net)             1564        3324         3748        4194        4502
Other financing items'                        160         141        -1175       -1303        -1365
Cash development loan                         0             0        -2100       -2100        -2100
Proposed Wold Bank Financing                  0             0         5400        5400        5000
Share In Total Expenditures
Current Expenditure                          83.5         74.4        73.7         71.1        68.8
Interest payments                           19.7        17.3         14.8        12.3        10.2
Development Expenditure                      16.3         25.6        26.3         28.9        31.2
Total social sector                           30.7        27.1        31.2         33.5        35.3
of which: EducaUon                            24.3        21.0        24.3         25.9        28.1
Health                               6.0         6.1          6.7         7.4          7.1
In Percent of Provincial GDP 2
Federal Tax Assignment                         5.4         5.3         5.4          5.4         5.6
Provincial Taxes                              0.4          0.4         0.4          0.4         0.4
Non-tax Receipts                               2.3         2.1         2.0          1.9         1.8
of which: Hydel Profits                        1.7         1.6         1.5          1.4         1.2
User Charges                           0.3         0.3          0.4         0.4          0.4
Grants                                         1.7         2.1          1.7         1.6         1.7
Total Receipts                                 9.9        10.0         9.6          9.5         9.5
Current Expenditure                            8.7         8.2         8.2          7.8         7.4
Development Expenditure                        1.7         2.8         2.9          3.2         3.4
Overall deficit                               -0.5        -0.9         -1.5        -1.4        -1.2
Total Social Sector Expenditure                3.2         3.0         3.5         3.7          3.8
Soume: Govemment of NWFP, Staff estimates.
Comprise the aggregate total of: Ways and Means Advances, Public Accounts (net) and repayment of domestic loans.
2 Since provincial GDP data are unreliable, these ratios are only indicative



Annex D
Page 12 of 13
33.    The main features of the projections in Table 5 are: (i) the overall expenditures increase from Rs.
41billion in FY02 to Rs. 52 billion in FY05. While the share of current expenditures declines from 74 %
in FY02 to 69% in FY05, the share of development expenditure rises correspondingly; (ii) the
GoNWFP's focus on human development is reflected in higher expenditure on social sector, the share of
which will increase from 27% in FY02 to over 35% in FY05; (iii) the share in total expenditures
consumed by interest payments is projected to decline sharply from 17% in FY02 to 10% in FY05. This
is largely due to prepayment of expensive debt; (iv) as a consequence of higher pro-poor expenditures, the
overall budget deficit is projected to jump to Rs. 5.9 billion in FY03 from Rs. 3.5billion in the previous
year. However, the underlying improvement in the fiscal position is more explicit in the last year, as the
deficit starts to decline in FY05; and (v) after taking account of the expected foreign assistance, the
repayment of foreign and domestic loans, and reflecting the GoNWFP's intention to retire expensive CDL
debt, there is a financing gap of about Rs.5.4 billion in each of the years FY03-FY04, and Rs.5.0 billion
in FY05. The GoNWFP intends to seek financial assistance from the World Bank of about US$90
million (equivalent to Rs.5.4 billion at existing exchange rates) in each of the three years, in support of its
broad based development efforts and restructuring of provincial fiscal accounts.
34.    Sustainability.  As a result of the intended borrowings noted above, the GoNWFP's total
outstanding debt will increase from Rs. 73 billion in FY02 to Rs. 95 billion FY05. However, estimated
debt/GDP ratio will fall marginally over this period (from 19.8% to 19.5%) and more importantly, total
debt service (including principal) will decline from Rs.8.6 billion to Rs. 7.8 billion over the same period
due to lower interest payments (Table 6). As a proportion of the government's receipts, debt service will
decline from 23.2% in FY02 to 17% in FY05 and help create greater fiscal space for priority development
expenditures. The overall budget deficit is projected to decline significantly in the years following the
program reflecting a deceleration in expenditures and continuing revenue growth.
Table 6: NWFP - Outstanding Debt, Debt Service
FY02        FY03        FY04         FY05
(In Rupees million, unless otherwise stated)
GoNWFP Total Outstanding Debt          72999       79892       87176        94763
of which: CDLs                         35320       32045       28615        25067
(In % of total)                (48)        (40)        (33)         (26)
Foreign debt                  27490        36639      46233        56135
Deferred liab. GPF             7746        8520        9372         10309
(in % of GDP)                  19.8        19.8        19.7         19.5
Interest payments as % of total debt    9.6         8.3         6.8          5.6
CDL's                           10.6        9.5         8.5          7.5
Foreign debt                    1.2         1.2         0.9          0.7
Debt Service Total                     8616        8554        8080         7773
(In % of total receipts)           23.2        22.0        19.2         17.0
(in % of GDP)                   2.3         2.1         1.8          1.6
Source: NWFP Govemment; Staff estimates.
Comprise the aggregate total of: Ways and Means Advances, Public Accounts (net) and repayment of domestic loans.
2 Since provincial GDP data are unreliable, these ratios are only indicative



Annex D
Page 13 of 13
Medium Term Measures
35.    In the medium term the government would continue implementing the reforms to improve
financial management, improve service delivery, provide adequate funding for social services, have better
debt management and strengthen fiscal decentralization. Revenue and expenditure reform measures as
programmed in MTBF, which has been approved by the NWFP Cabinet, would continue. The
government would revise the Stamp Duty Schedule, complete the Property Tax Survey and upgrade user
charges in education, health, irrigation and public health sectors. In addition, further improvements will
be made in budget processing, including computerization, presentation and expanding coverage of fiscal
data on the web. Fiscal performance of districts will be reviewed and necessary assistance/training
provided to them. Transparent revenue sharing arrangements between the province and districts would be
formulated and would devolve UIPT and Entertainment tax to Tehsil level. PAC will be made a fully
functioning accountability agency with provinces taking prompt action on its recommendations. In
addition the government will be undertaldng a study on tax potential and AIT modernization which will
be completed prior to FY03, to provide provincial government with analysis and recommendations on
further tax effort for introduction in FY04 budget. Also agreement would be reached with the Federal
Bureau of Statistics, and funding provided, to collect reliable provincial economic data. Fiscal data will
be tabulated in both economic and financial classification.
36.   In summary, creating fiscal space and a successful implementation of fiscal decentralization
measures, will be the key to success of the reform program. Although NWFP does not have control over
the level or fluctuations of federal transfers (which account for 90% of total provincial receipts), its
efforts to maximize the available fiscal space by vigorously mobilizing own revenue from taxes, non-tax
revenue sources, and user charges will be very important. The provincial government has made an effort
to build in incentives for increasing and effectively collecting user charges by keeping the proceeds with
the agencies delivering the services for the purpose of O&M. Similarly, fiscal space can be created by
better prioritizing and economizing on expenditures-as the province has been doing by reducing the
number of schemes and throw-forward in the ADP, and through rationalization of staffing. Limiting
expenditures on wheat to maintenance of strategic stocks, will also open up fiscal space. A significant
contribution to fiscal space will be generated by the planned retirement of Rs.2 billion expensive debt
annually over FY03-05. The federal government can help expand resources for NWFP and the other
provinces by raising and stabilizing federal revenues, considering various options for reducing vertical
fiscal imbalances, and working closely with the provinces on matters that affect their budgets and the next
National Finance Commission Award.



Annex E
Page I of 8
PUBLIC FINANCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY AND MANAGEMENT IN NWFP PROVINCE
1.   Financial management and accountability issues are at the center of the NWFP Government's
reform program. Improvement in fiscal management, quality of public accounts, civil service and public
accountability, and procurement are among the key reform targets.
2.   A preliminary Provincial Financial Accountability Profile has been prepared for NWFP province
and based on its findings, a Reform Program has been agreed with the Government. The desk review
undertaken as part of the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) also reviewed the
provincial financial accountability issues and had a special section on the Local Government financial
accountability framework. As part of the final CFAA, a separate modular paper will be prepared in the
form and scope of a Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment (PFAA) by December 31, 2002 to
feed into the main CFAA report. This assessment will cover accountability issues for all tiers of
government in the province.
Accountability Framework
3.   Pakistan's Financial Accountability Framework and accounting and adiditing institutions are
centralized. The financial rules governing Federal and Provincial Governments described in the
Constitution are completely similar, and provinces mostly follow Federal Government budgetary rules.
The Federal Government's Controller General of Account's office, attached to the Federal Ministry of
Finance, is responsible for the preparation of the Civil Appropriation Accounts of all Governments, from
the Federal to the District Governments. The Pakistan Auditor General's office is responsible for auditing
the different levels of governments except the smallest tiers of local governments (which is audited by the
Local Fund Audit Department). Much of the desk review and analysis for the proposed CFAA and
Bank's interventions through the ongoing Project to Improve Financial Accounting and Auditing
(PIFRA) and the proposed follow-on project apply to all tiers of governments. These factors guided the
policy dialogue between GoNWFP and the Bank teams in the preparation of this credit.
4.   The main findings of the preliminary Profile and CFAA desk review relevant to NWFP
government are that:
*  public accountability practices has weakened in all areas over the last decade - budget preparation
and implementation, accounting, monitoring and reporting of public expenditures, transparency,
auditing, and legislative oversight. Correspondingly, the fiduciary risks are high. While a legal
framework for public accountability is in place, it needs modernization as many of the rules are
antiquated and do not provide enough incentives for enforcement.
*  lack of fiscal transparency and poor budget monitoring have undermined both Federal and
Provincial budgets as tools of economic policy. Inadequate accountability for public enterprise
financial management, lack of monitoring of implicit and contingent liabilities, and lack of
transparency of budgets have all contributed to lowering the effectiveness of public expenditures.
There is inadequate intra-year monitoring and reporting of budget implementation.
*  accounting and financiai reporting functions have been undermjned in their objectives of assuring
financial regularity, propriety of expenditures and compliance with budget appropriations through
widespread breakdown of established internal controls. External financial statements have
become unreliable as these have been prepared in recent years without appropriate reconciliation.
The completeness, accuracy and timeliness of accounting information has been hampered -by the
use of a largely manual single entry accounting system for maintaining government accounts,



Annex E
Page 2 of 8
with associated high risk of errors and delays in capture of accounting data and absence of
tracking obligations and commitments.
*  auditing function has suffered because financial statements were not presented on a timely basis
and Public Accounts Committees (PACs) have not reviewed the reports expeditiously, thereby
limiting the relevance of the public audit system. The quality of the audit reports needs
improvement by reducing the emphasis on irregularities and giving more attention to materiality
and significant systemic weaknesses of financial management. The role of the PACs in bringing
the principal accounting officers of ministries and departments, and their staff, to account for
serious non-compliance with financial policies and procedures has been weakened due to the
delay with which audit reports have been dealt with.
*  More robust and accurate financial position needs to be determined in respect of potentially
unfunded liabilities of Autonomies Bodies (ABs). The GoNWFP currently has 14 autonomous
and quasi-autonomous bodies out of which 4 are self funded. The bodies funded from the budget
range from Development (Forest, Hydel etc) Authorities, Education Foundation and Text Book
Board. The self financed ones are Employees Social Security Institution, Workers Welfare
Board, Minimum Wages Board and Workers Children Education Foundation Board. In addition
NWFP owns 80% shares of the Bank of Khyber(BoK). The GoNWFP has started the process of
dissolution of autonomous bodies which have either not fulfilled their objectives, are not
financially viable or are not required because of private sector involvement. Since 1999 the
GoNWFP has dissolved 4 such autonomous bodies namely the Agriculture Development
Authority, Fruit and Vegetable Board, Provincial Frontier Cooperative Bank and the Provincial
Urban Development Board. While aggregate financial picture is not readily available, the NWFP
Finance Secretary has stated that on an aggregate basis, the ABs are small, and not significant in
budgetary or quasi-fiscal liability terms; also GoNWFP has not been provided any guarantees or
loans, in the past, which could pose a potential liability to the province. At end 2001 the BoK had
an asset base of Rs 17.2 billion, deposits of Rs 14.1 billion and loans of Rs 7.0 billion. As per the
FY01 external audit report, BoK is fully provisioned as per the State Bank of Pakistan Prudential
Guidelines; after provisioning its capital amounts to Rs 1.0 billion.
5.   The CFAA desk review also noted that the GoP had launched a comprehensive program to address
these issues at the national level. The main challenges are to implement these reformns and extend it to
sub-national governments.
6.   On-going Reforms. The following components of the ongoing PIFRA project and the proposed
follow on project will have a positive impact on the provincial financial accountability and management
in terms of improving timeliness and reliability of accounts.
*  Adoption of the New Accounting Model (NAM) which includes a new Chart of Accounts (CoA)
having flexibility to track expenditures down to the lowest tier of government.
*  Computerization of government accounting in stages with proposal to cover all the 127 sites in
Pakistan.
*  Development of systems specification and a suitable add on feature for addressing the accounting
and reporting needs of districts and downwards.
*  Capacity building of the District Accounts Offices
7.   In addition, GoNWFP has initiated the following actions:
* Improving public accounts markedly under the leadership of the Provincial Fiscal Monitoring
Committee (FMC). Appropriation Accounts were fully reconciled for FY 00 and 01. NWFP was
the only province, which compiled the expenditures both by function and object. For the current



Annex E
Page 3 of 8
year, 90% expenditure and 85% receipt for the month of February 2002 and 80% expenditure and
70% receipts for the month of March 2002 had been reconciled.
* Strengthening accountability through setting up of an ad-hoc PAC: The Government made all out
efforts to constitute an ad-hoc Public Accounts Cornmittee but could not succeed due to an stay
order by a Court. The order has now been vacated and the Committee has been formed.
* Improving debt and quasi-fiscal management: To strengthen quasi-fiscal management, the
GoNWFP is now launching a review of all off-budget accounts with a view to reduce their
number.
* A development scheme for computerization of financial system for current and development
budgets, accounting system and communication of information between the District Finance
Departments and Provincial Finance Department has been approved and the roll out of the
computerized system under PIFRA and the follow on projects will address the requirements of
the lower tiers of government.
* District Government Financial management and the District accounts Offices (DAO) in major
districts have already been upgraded to Grade 18 and qualified personnel are being posted
*  As part of the financial management improvement program, GoNWFP has decided to appoint a
Provincial Financial Controller in the Department of Finance. The appointment will be made by
July 15, 2002. The Controller's main task will be to implement financial management and public
financial accountability reforms.  In addition, the Controller will also be responsible for
accounting and financial reporting (jointly with Provincial Accountant General), developing
provincial capacity to handle accounting and payroll, organization of finance and accounts
function of the GoNWFP, staffing and training, internal controls and internal audit, financial
policies and procedures and response to audit observations and systemic issues.
8.   The agreed immediate actions include: (see page 5 and 6 of this annex for agreed Reform Program
Matrix).
*  Appointment of a Provincial Financial Controller (as per the terms of reference agreed with the
Bank) to initiate and lead the NWFP financial management reform program.
*  Constitution of Task Force/Steering Committee to guide development of the financial
modernization program.
* Setting up of ad-hoc PAC and opening of its proceedings to the press.
*  Carry out a modular provincial accountability assessment and agree on a detailed time bound
financial management reform program.
* Improving the legal and regulatory framework for public procurement by approving a
Procurement Ordinance legislating the fundamental principles of good public procurement
practices in order to simplify processes, promote free and open competition, increase
transparency, reduce time lag between tender invitation to award, and strengthen code of ethics
aspects.
9.   Medium Term Reform Program, includes: (i) implementation of the Financial Management
Reform Program, institutional and personnel reforms to improve financial management capacity and
intemal controls in provincial departments; establishment of intemal audit unit in each line departments;
(ii) strengthening District Government Financial Management and upgrading the level of District
Accounts Officers (DAOs) in major districts to Grade 18 and post qualified personnel in these posts; (iii)
computerization of all fiscal accounts up to the district level; (iv) improvements in fiscal transparency by
introducing the new Chart of Accounts and New Accounting Model; (v) review and reforms of financial



Annex E
Page 4 of 8
rules to make these consistent with the new accounting model; (vi) improving the tracking of
recommendations of the Auditor General and PACs; publication of audit reports on the provincial web
site; and (vii) in order to confirm that there are no significant liabilities for autonomous bodies the
GoNWFP has agreed to conduct a detailed review for the identification of all liabilities of autonomous
bodies which have budgetary impact and develop a program to cover all un-funded liabilities by March
2003.
Improving the Legal and Regulatory Framework for Procurement
10.   While the GoNWFP has taken steps to decentralize procurement to increase efficiency, the
procurement of goods, civil works and consultants' services is carried out through outdated and
ambiguous rules and regulations. The application of these rules is further distorted by the actual practices
that have progressively grown to thwart genuine competition for government business and to allow
officials wide latitude in applying, ignoring or misusing the rules resulting in inefficient procurement that
provides little assurance of transparency and value for money. The legal and regulatory framework also
does not provide an effective means for settling disputes or addressing the grievances of
suppliers/contractors/consultants.
11.   The Government of NWFP has decided to improve the overall legal and regulatory framework for
procurement through the followings measures:
(a) A new Procurement Ordinance, legislating the fundamental principles of good public
procurement practices, approved for enactment by the Governor on May 30, 2002 (key features of
Ordinance in Attachment 1).
(b) develop and notify by March 31, 2003, new procurement rules and regulations, consistent with
the Procurement Ordinance, to simplify processes, increase competition and transparency, and
introduce a code of ethics applicable to all procurement of goods, works and consultants' services
in the province
(c) develop and adopt also by March 31, 2003, standard bidding documents for procurement of
goods, pharmaceuticals/vaccines, and works; and
(d) establish by August 31, 2003, a fair and effective mechanism for redressal of
grievances/complaints from suppliers, contractors and consultants.
(e) The GoNWFP also plans to initiate by June 30, 2003, institutionalized procurement training
programs to develop the capacity of government staff in effectively carrying out procurement.
12. The NWFP Finance Department will be responsible for implementation of the agreed
improvements in the procurement framework through close consultation and coordination with the
concerned line departments and agencies. For this purpose, a dedicated and qualified focal person will be
appointed by August 31, 2002, in the Finance Department who will be assisted, as may be required, by
qualified government staff deputed from within the Finance Department or from other government
agencies, or by short-term consultants engaged from the private sector.



Annex E
Page 5 of 8
NWFP SAC - Financial Management Indicators
t; =:- ----                                                                                         -- :r- -:--
,                      , - - rjr4-k, ~ : ,-;- - ~ - -  -  - _  t                         ,.t--,! -  (03/02
A. More reliable,    1.  Progressively improved reconciled data in  Irprovement in each  Receipts-70% (03/02)  FMC, PFC and AG
comnprehensive,      all accounting units. 95% reconciliation to be  quarter till the target of  Exp. 80% (03/02)
timely and           achieved within 2 months after close of the  100% reconciliation of
accurate             month,                                 revenue, expenditure,
information                                                 assets and liabilities (GPF
pertaining to                                               and others) is achieved.
provincial and   2. Substantial reduction in "unidentified"  Improvement in each    Suspense account-     PFC, FMC, AG
district            financing from public accounts and deposits.  quarter till the target of  80%(03/02)
government           95% reconciliation to be achieved within 2  100% reconciliation of
financial            months after close of the month.       suspense account is
transactions                                                achieved.
3. Progressive closure of all off-budget   Identify all off-budget  New initiative       CGA,PFC, AG,
accounts.                              accounts by December 31,                      GoNWFP
2002 and develop a plan
for their progressive
closure.
4. Up gradation of the grade levels of DAOs  Already upgraded      New initiative        CGA,PFC, Finance
and TAOs (Grade 18) in major districts.                                              Department
5. Improving quality of the staff of DAOs  Improvement in each year  The existing quality is  Finance Department,
through training and fresh induction.   as per plan            not satisfactory both in  PFC, AG
accounting and
computer skills
6. Progressively increasing percentage of  Improvement in each year  Payroll and accounting  CGA, AG, PFC,
government transactions through         according to plan and  in only 17 of 24 DAOs  Finance Department
computerized accounting (SAP).          PIFRA roll out.        is in place
B. Imnproved         7. Publish useable budget monitoring reports  From FY2003          Non-existent          PFC, Finance
internal control                                                                                          Department
environment
8. Establishment of an effective internal audit  Progressive institution to  Non-existent  PFC, Finance
C. Increased            unit for each Ministry.                 be achieved by June 2003                      Department
credibility of
provincial and   9. Publishing audited accounts of PSEs,    To be published with FY  Not available at present  PFC, Finance
local government     autonomous and quasi-autonomous bodies.  03 budget.           I      _I Department



Annex E
Page 6 of 8
S. No, I Outcome            Performance BenchmarA                       Tar2et Date             BawWine(ffay2002j     ResDonsibilit
financial
statements with  10. Timely aggregation and audited financial  On-going             New Initiative        Finance Departments,
public and           statements.                                                                          AG and Auditor
international                                                                                             General
donor
community
D. Reduced           11. Detailed review and identification of all  March 2003          New initiative       Finance Department
budgetary impact     liabilities of autonomous bodies which have
of autonomous        budgetary impact and develop a program to
bodies' quasi-       cover all unfunded liabilities.
fiscal liability
2.      Improved financial   1. Appointment of Provincial Financial     July 15, 2002           New initiative        GoNWFP
management of all       Controller
levels of NWFP      2. Operationalization of PAC                May 31,2002             PAC notified, members  GoNWFP
government                                                                              being selected
3. Constitution of Task Force/Steering      July 15, 2002           New initiative        GoNWFP, CGA
Committee
4. Carry out a provincial financial accountability  December 31,2002  New diagnostic work  GoNWFP with Bank &
assessment and agree on a detailed time bound                                         other donors support
FM improvement program
5. Publication of annual reports (half-yearly  From first quarter of FY  New initiative   GoNWFP, AG, District
from FY 04 and quarterly from 05) along with  2003-04                                 Governments, CGA
audited financial statements of district
governments.
3.      A. Improved          1. Incorporation of details of actual cash  From annual audit report  New initiative     PFC, PAC Secretariat
external audit      recovery from audit findings due to fraud,  relating to FY2000
and legislative     waste and abuse reported in the Auditor
oversight           General's annual report (installation of
tracking system for recoveries on account of
audit findings).
B. More open and    2. MIS to determine the % of audit          From annual audit report  New initiative      PFC, PAC Secretariat
answerable          recommendations accepted by the PAC     relating to FY200
government      3. MIS to review the % of PAC's             From annual audit report  New initiative      PFC, PAC Secretariat
recommendations accepted by the         relating to FY2000
Government.
4. Posting of audit reports in the web page soon  From annual audit report  New initiative  PFC, PAC Secretariat
after PAC's discussion                  relating to FY2000
5. Prescribing a schedule of examination of audit As soon as the regular  New initiative  PFC, PAC Secretariat
reports by PAC, by amending the Standing  PAC is in session                          I                     I



Annex E
Page 7 of 8
Procedure
6. Making PACs open to press                As soon as PAC is in    New initiative        PFC, PAC Secretariat
session_
4.      Inmprovement in     I1. New Procurernent Ordinance approved for  May 30, 2002           New initiative        Finance Dept.
Public Procurement      enactment by the Governor.
2. Develop and notify new Procurement Rules  March 31, 2003         New initiative        Finance Dept.
and Regulations.
3. Develop and adopt standard bidding       March 31, 2003          New initiative        Finance Dept
documents.
4. Initiate institutionalized procurement training  June 30, 2003   New initiative        Finance Dept
programs for government staff.
5. Establish effective mechanism to redress  August 31, 2003        New initiative        Finance Dept
complaints/grievances from suppliers                           I                     I                     I



Annex E
Page 8 of 8
Attachment 1
KEY FEATURES OF THE NEW PROCUREMENT ORDINANCE
1.     The passage of the NWFP      Procurement Ordinance is the most significant
accomplishment to-date in the procurement reform efforts in Pakistan. The ordinance establishes
a legal framework for carrying out procurement which was non-existent up till now in NWFP or
for that matter in any other province or even at the federal level. It includes many important
provisions to streamline the procurement process, promote fair and open competition, increase
transparency, reduce delays, and address governance related aspects.
2.     The ordinance introduces a code of ethical conduct for government staff and suppliers
and requires all members of the Procuring Entities and Purchase Committees to sign a declaration
certifying that they will abide by the applicable rules and code of conduct. Similar certifications
will be required from suppliers, contractors and consultants. The ordinance also includes explicit
provisions on fraud and corruption along with remedial measures.
3.    In terms of process improvements; the ordinance incorporates the main principles of
good public procurement practices that were either missing from or were being incorrectly
applied under the existing rules and procedures. The ordinance now explicitly stipulates that
open competition will be the preferred method and all other methods will be used only
exceptionally in accordance with the rules. It requires that the solicitation documents issued to
bidders must be complete and should clearly specify the requirements, evaluation criteria and
contract conditions. It also states that evaluation of bids contract award must be strictly in
accordance with the pre-disclosed criteria and that no other criteria shall be taken into account.
The ordinance also requires, for the first time, that the qualification of the bidder to satisfactorily
perform the contract must be ascertained, on the basis of the qualification criteria provided in the
bidding documents, before contract award.  Post-bid negotiations are not permitted with any
bidder, except under exceptional circumstances to be prescribed in the rules
4.     To reduce delays, the ordinance requires upfront procurement planning and also
stipulates the necessity to award contracts within the original bid validity period, with extensions
only under exceptional circumstances in accordance with the rules. Another important provision
in the Ordinance pertains to the requirement for notifying unsuccessful bidders of the outcome of
the procurement process promptly after award of contract. The ordinance also provides bidders
and suppliers an opportunity to file grievances/complaints and requires that the redressal of such
grievances must be carried out in an efficient and equitable manner.
5.     The incorporation of the fundamental principles of good public procurement practices in
the procurement ordinance, followed by the development of new procurement rules and
regulations and standard bidding documents, is expected to reduce irregularities in the
procurement process and discourage corruption.



Annex F
Page I of 10
NWFP EDUCATION SECTOR REFORMS
Key Issues
1.     Historically, the performance of the education sector in NWFP has been slow and stagnant, with
enrollment and literacy rates rising only marginally and growing disparities between girls and boys and
urban/rural as can be seen from the table below.
Key Education Indicators
Primary Gross   Primary Gross  Literacy Rate -  Literacy Rate
Enrollment Rate  Enrollment Rate  Boys2       - Girls
- Boys          - Girls
NWFP               85.4            53.7           53.8           15.1
Pakistan           80.0           61.0            58.0           27.2
Source: PIHS & EMIS.
2.     This poor performance is caused by a number of factors, that include:
*  Limits and gender disparities in access to education: Despite the clearly spelled out vision of the
Government of NWFP giving top priority to primary education, especially girls education,
substantial gender disparities continue to exist. And despite the increase in the number of girls'
schools which was as high as 58.6% between Academic Year (AY) 1992/93 and AY 2000/01 as
compared with a 2.7% decrease in the number of boys institutions during the same period3, there
are still a large number of areas without girls schools. The latter decrease is due to efficiency
measures taken by the Government of NWFP to merge or close 3,582 schools with very low
enrollments.
*  Limited access for continuing education: At the same time, the focus on emphasizing primary
education has resulted in a widening gap in the numbers of primary, middle, secondary and
higher education institutions, depriving the vast majority of primary school graduates from
admission into middle and high schools. Out of the total number of institutions in the school
sector, 86% are primary, 8% middle, 5% high schools and only 1% higher secondary schools.
*  Low enrollments, rural-urban and gender gaps in enrollment rates: The percentage increases in
girls' and boys' enrollment at primary level from AY 1992/93 to AY 2000/01 were 56.9% and
12.1% respectively, for an overall increase of 26.8%. Despite the priority given to primary
education, especially to girls'.education, and the much larger increase in girls enrollment as
compared with that of boys, the gender gap is still wide, as can be seen from the table below:
This Annex incorporates the main features of the "Institutional Reforms Program of Government of NWFW,
Schools & Literacy Departmient, May 2002.
2 For Populations 15 years and above.
3 Source: Annual School Census (1999-00 and 2000-01) and presentation made by the Literacy and School (L & S),
and Higher Education Departments.



Annex F
Page 2 of 10
Gross Primary Sch ol Enrollment Rates in NWFP, AY 2000 01
________ ________ _ _   Boys Enrollment  Girls Enrollment  Total Enrollment
(%              (%)              (%
Government Primary Schools        75.1             49.              62.9
Private Primary Schools           10.3             4.1              7.3
All Primary Schools               85.4             53.7             70.2
Note: Percentages refer to share of population age 5-9. Data were provided by the NWFP Department of
Literacy and Primary Education. The enrollment includes estimated enrollment of private primary schools
(7.3% of the overall).
*  Gender disparities: Gender disparities in Gross Enrollment Rates (GERs) are significant in both
public and private schools, and in rural and urban areas. The GER of rural government schools
was reportedly 84.2% for boys and 52.3% for girls during 1999/00, and for urban areas these
figure were 71.65% for boys and 55.1% for girls.4 One of the reasons for low enrollment rates
for girls, especially in rural areas, is non-availability of local female teachers. The teachers
posted in rural schools from other areas of the province get themselves transferred out to places of
their choice. As a result, girls' schools may be closed and girls drop out.
*  Inadequate facilities for schooling beyond primary education: A very large number of children
either do not have access to middle school and secondary school education or do not get
admission beyond the primary level. This is evident from the GER of grades VI-ViII, which is
reported to be 47.5% for boys, 20.3% for girls and 34.7% overall, and those of grades IX-X,
which are reported to be 36% for boys, 13.8% for girls and 25.6% overall.
*  Non/under-utilization of existing resources and wastage in the system: There were 478 unutilized
primary schools, 5,416 under-utilized primary schools, and 594 primary schools without teachers
according to the Annual School Census Report (ASC) for 2000/01. Drop-out rates between
Kachi and grade-5 (around 48%; boys 34.7%, girls 70.3%) and repetition rates (ranging between
11% and 18.4% in various grades) are very high. No reliable data are available on completion
rates, but they appear to be low. It is estimated that around 80% of the boys and girls (more boys
than girls) who reach grade-5 complete that grade. A large number of buildings constructed
under various programs for primary and secondary education facilities continue to remain unused.
*  Low user charges at secondary and higher education levels: Currently students of grades 6-8, 9-
10 and 11-12 pay a total of Rs. 80, Rs. 104 and Rs. 290, respectively, as admission and tuition fee
per annum, which is very low by any standard. However, in view of the poverty situation in the
province, a large number of families cannot pay even that amount. Similarly, tuition fees at
FA/FSc., BA/BSc., and MA/MSc. levels are Rs. 330/360, Rs 400/420 and Rs. 960/1440
respectively, which are extremely low for higher education.
*  Schools lack basic physical facilities: Around 50% of primary schools and a large number of
middle, high and higher secondary schools lack facilities like water supply, sanitation facilities,
and boundary walls. -A large number of school of all levels need major or minor repairs.
*  Low quality of education: The quality of education in NWFP is widely acknowledged to be
unsatisfactory. The failure of most students to remain in school long enough to acquire functional
literacy and numeracy has been noted earlier. In addition, most of those who do complete
primary school or graduate from secondary or tertiary institutions do not achieve the level of
competency that is required for success in the modem world.
4Source: Govermment of NWFP, Department of Education, EMIS Annual School Census Report 1999/00.



Annex F
Page 3 of 10
*   Weak management and implementation capacity of field staff: The Education Departments
recognize that financial management is very weak, especially at the field level. The persons
handling financial resources are not trained in financial management. They cannot prepare even a
proper budget based on the needs of the system. The field staff generally lack school supervision,
management, monitoring and evaluation skills. They are not made aware of their job description
or trained according to their job description. Accountability measures, although they exist, are
not enforced. Schools lack proper resources and operational budget, and field staff lack basic
needs in terms of mobility, office equipment, and O&M budget. With the establishment of
district governments, capacity building becomes even more important.
*  Irrational distribution of staff, especially teaching staff: There were 2,537 schools with a
teacher/student ratio below 1:20 and 1,192 schools with a ratio above 1:50 according to ASC
2000/01. There are 6,300 additional teachers required in 5,746 schools, while there are 7,075
excess teachers in 5,620 schools according to the ASC 2000/01. This clearly shows that the
spatial distribution of teachers is not rational. The mis-deployment issue predominantly relates to
primary education and less to secondary and higher levels, but, there is oversupply of teachers in
secondary schools and above in urban areas, while there are "shortages" of secondary teachers in
rural schools. Administrative and managerial staff are considered to be in need of rightsizing as
well.
*  Substandard quality of service delivery: The govermment is fully cognizant of the fact that
service delivery is poor. Contributing factors include the following. The communication system
is inadequate to make field officials and schools' staff aware of the national and provincial
policies and programs and their objectives. Appropriate systems like student assessment are not
in place to inform the parents, educational managers and policy makers what students are
learning. There are no institutional arrangements for continuous in-service training of teachers
and supervisory and managerial staff. Teachers at the primary level have to handle multi-grade
teaching, for which they are not trained. O&M budget allocations are inadequate for schools and
for field staff. To improve service delivery at the school level, PTAs were formed in almost all
primary schools, and around 2,100 PTA members were trained through NGOs. All teachers and
head-teachers have received some orientation as part of the in-service teacher training program.
However, other members of the PTAs could not receive any orientation, and therefore there is
still lack of awareness among the PTAs about their roles and functions. PTAs' members will
continue to require information and support as their roles solidify.
Government Strategy and Reform Program
3.     Since FY00, the Government of NWFP has been in the process of developing a comprehensive
strategy to tackle the issues noted above, and to introduce wide-ranging reforms to improve the
performance of the education sector. The govemment has now prepared a medium term plan for three
years titled "Institutional Reforms Program, Schools and Literacy Department, Govemment of NWFP,
May 2002". The provincial Govemment's efforts are focused on capacity building during the first year of
the plan i.e. during FY03, improving the quality of education; increasing enrollments, especially of girls
at the primary level; expanding secondary education to provide greater access to primary school
graduates; increasing cost recovery at secondary and tertiary levels of education with concessions for the
poor; and expanding non-govemment participation for provision of education and to improve service
delivery. NWFP's education reform program are in line with and have been linked with the Federal
Ministry of Education's Education Sector Reform Program for 2001-04.



Annex F
Page 4 of IO
4.     The expected outcomes by the end of FY05 of the NWFP education sector reform program are:
*   15% increase in enrollment at the primary level (30% for girls).
*  7.5% increase in enrollment at the middle level.
*  10.5% increase in enrollment at the secondary level.
*  10% reduction in overall drop out rate.
*  5% increase in private sector participation in the education sector.
*  Achieving a 1:40 teacher-student ratio (instead of the current 1:33).
*  Gender disparity reduced.
*  100% of girls' schools without basic physical facilities provided these by end-June 2003.
*   100% of boys' schools without basic physical facilities provided these by end-June 2005.
*  All managers trained in administrative and financial matters, particularly in the context of
devolution and new responsibilities.
*  Community involved in school management and support through effective PTAs.
*  Service delivery improved: all teachers are trained; teachers deployment rationalized. teacher
absenteeism arrested; improved instructional material made available; classroom environment
improved.
Increasing Allocation for the Sector
5.    In order to increase the financial allocation for the education sector, the Government of NWFP
has taken the following actions:
*  The annual funding for the school education sector recurrent budget has been increased in FY02.
However, spending will be about Rs. 7.9 billion compared to Rs. 8.30 billion in FY01. This
brings the share of education to 24.1% of the total provincial expenditures. The expenditures on
education would increase by 73% from Rs 8.5 billion in FY02 to Rs 14.7 billion in FY05. The
allocations for the school education sector for the next three years are shown in the following
table:
(Rs. billion)  FYO        FY02         FY03         FY04       FY05
Recurrent        8.2          7.9          8.8          9.8       10.8
Development      0.6          0.6          2.0          2.7        3.9
TOTAL            8.8          8.5          10.8        12.5       14.7
Source: NWFP Medium Term Budget Framework (MTBF) 2003-05
*  To initiate the ESR-funded programs, Rs. 254 million has been released to the province, and these
funds have been transferred to the districts as well. The province has also received the second
installment of ESR funds but it has yet to be released to the districts.
*  In light of priority attached by the government to elementary education, a policy decision has
recently been made to establish a fund upgrading elementary education facilities (both private and
public) in which user charges that are gradually being introduced at the higher levels and



Annex F
Page 5 of 10
contribution by donors and philanthropists will be pooled. This fund will be managed by the
Elementary Education Foundation. The details will be worked out during FY03.
Improving Access to Education
6.     An important part of the reform program is to increase access to education through the following
measures during FY 03-05. The government has taken following actions:
*  A decision has been taken to ensure that all non-functioning schools are made fully functional
through strategies that include staff rationalization to ensure that teachers are posted, teacher
absenteeism monitoring, and providing missing physical facilities to the school.
* Innovative activities have been initiated to increase enrollment, including holding of special
community mobilization drives and special enrollment meetings with existing PTAs.
*  Enrollment targets (targets for reduced drop-out rates) are being set by the districts, and a
complete enrollment target plan based on district plans will be consolidated at the provincial level
by end-June 2002.
*  The recruitment of 2410 new district-specific contract female teachers (against vacant posts) to
make functional non-functional schools has been approved by the Govemor, and recruitment is
expected to be completed by August 31, 2002.
7.     Over the medium-term, following actions are planned:
*  To close the gap of physical infrastructure constraints and to fulfill the demands of additional
enrollment, the number of school classrooms will be increased from 55,036 to 60,920 to provide
shelter to 235,360 additional children by June 2004.
*  Out of the above, the increase in girls' classrooms will be from 19,601 to 21,510 to provide
shelter to 76,360 additional girls by June 2003.
*  Provision of the following basic facilities is part of the three year medium term plan (FY03-05):
(a) primary schools: latrines to 6883 schools; electricity to 9036 schools; water supply to 9988
schools; and boundary walls to 6506 schools; (b) secondary schools: latrines to 142 schools;
electricity to 99 schools; water supply to 88 schools; and boundary walls to 97 schools.
Reducing Gender Gap
8.     The reform program also aims to reduce gender gaps and reduce boys-girls/rural-urban
disparities. Actions taken include the following:
*  The decision has been made in FY02 to spend 70% of the development budget allocated to
primary education on girls' education, especially in rural areas and urban disadvantaged areas.
However, the percentage of allocation may vary from district to district in view of the current
situation in an individual district.
*  Innovative activities to expand girls' access to education have been initiated, including a WFP-
supported edible oil program that is being implemented in six "backward" districts, and Girls
Community Model Schools that are being established under an ADB-supported project.



Annex F
Page 6 of 10
9.     Actions planned over the medium-term include:
*  The existing criteria for establishment of new primary schools has been developed to ensure that
any and all new schools are opened in under-served areas, particularly to target girls in rural
areas.
*  All girls' schools without physical facilities (such as toilets, water, boundary walls, electricity
where available) will be provided these missing facilities by the end of FY03 (June 2003).
Improving Efficiency of the System
10.    The Government of NWFP aims to increase efficiency in the education sector through optimum
utilization of existing resources and reducing wastage in the system. Actions taken include the following:
*  A staff and facility rationalization exercise has been completed. The plan for re-deployment and
recruitment, and any new construction based on this exercise has been approved by the
government.
*  Based on this plan, schools and staff will be rationalized by end-August 2002 through a
comprehensive plan prepared by the Department of School Education and Literacy for staff re-
deployment, new recruitment (contract, facility-based), using available unused government
buildings for educational purposes, and construction of additional facilities if and where
necessary.
Enhancing Cost Recovery
11.    The government also has initiated a program for improving cost recovery at the tertiary level.
The Department of Higher Education has prepared a proposal for approval by the next fiscal year to
gradually increase admission and tuition fees for secondary schools and colleges. This proposal
anticipates addition collection of Rs. 200 per annum from each higher level student.
Improving Quality of Education
12.   In order to improve the quality of education, a number of activities have been initiated. These
include improving the learning environment through introduction of revised textbooks, in-service teacher
training, involvement of communities and parents, provision of instructional material, and other measures
to improve quality. Actions taken include the following:
*  Teacher Training: 220 positions of Teacher Trainers have been created as part of the devolution
plan for conducting in-service training courses for school teachers in districts, while 771 positions
of Learning Coordinators have been abolished, reflecting their perceived lack of effectiveness in
supporting teachers and improving quality. Training is being carried out in collaboration between
the Govemment Colleges for Elementary Teaching and the Institute for Educational Development
of the Aga Khan University.
*  Instructional materials and school repairs (IM&R): Current low levels of spending on classroom
consumables, school repairs and procurement of furniture and jute mats for primary and middle
schools have been modestly increased in FY02 from Rs. 1650 per class to Rs. 1750 per class, and
these have been disbursed through PTAs in FY00 and FY01. This year under the new devolution
system, Rs. 24 million has been released to the EDO (Education) accounts for onward
disbursement to PTAs.



Annex F
Page 7 of I°
*  Introduction of English: English has been introduced as a subject in all primary schools of the
province in response to the growing demand for English by parents. The Textbook Board has
developed and made the English textbooks available. Teachers up to grade 4 level have been
trained in teaching of English during in-service teacher training under an IDA-GTZ supported
program.
*  Teaching of science and math through English language medium: A pilot program has been
initiated in all of the middle and high schools (450 schools) of Kohat and Swat districts to teach
science and math through English medium. The objective of this initiative as well as the teaching
of English in all primary schools is to reduce the gap between elite and non-elite educational
tracks.
* NEAS: A PC-1 has been approved for introduction of student assessment at grade-4 and grade-8
level as part of the National Education Assessment System (NEAS), and is expected to be
implemented starting in FY03.
*  Textbook De-Regulation: A decision has been made to privatize the publishing of textbooks.
Initially, publishing of textbooks of Classes 9 - 12 has been given to the private sector on the
basis of royalty. There are plans to phase this to the primary sector from FY03 for which a
detailed road map has been developed by the Textbook Board for approval by the Government.
*  To meet the growing demand for computer education, computer literacy is being introduced in
secondary schools through public-private partnership as well as through support from the
Ministry of Science and Technology.
13.   Actions planned over the medium-term include:
* Continuation of the teacher training program to ensure that all teachers are trained during FY03.
* Instructional Materials and school repairs (IM&R): An amount of Rs 294.4 million (including
Rs 199.3 million for elementary schools) would be made available to schools / PTAs during
FY03 for IM&R.
* Teaching of science and math through English language medium: Taking this reform initiative
being piloted in two districts to scale has huge cost implications, which the provincial
government is fully aware of and is considering the introduction of user charges to sustain it. The
NWFP Government is planning on undertaking an evaluation of this pilot before expanding this
initiative to other districts in FY03.
*  NEAS: Begin implementation of NEAS in FY03. For this purpose, an allocation of Rs 3.5
million will be made through recurrent budget for FY03.
*  Continuation of the textbook deregulation initiative, expanding it to cover the entire education
sector.
Capacity Building and Rationalization
14.   Actions taken for improving management and implementation capacity and rationalization of
staff distribution include the following:
* In line with the devolution plan, the Department of Education (DoE) has been bifurcated into
separate Departments for School Education and Literacy, and for Higher Education in order to
improve the administrative efficiency of the education system. The number of officers at the
district level has also been reduced from seven to four (EDO, and three District Officers - one for



Annex F
Page 8 of 10
primary and literacy, one for secondary and one for development) in large districts and from five
to three in small districts (no separate DO for development in 12 such districts). To give a
representation to female officers, at least one of the DOs is female. District allocations for both
recurrent and development budgets have been made.
*  To improve the administrative management of the education sector and to prevent frequent
transfers between schools and supervision/administrative positions, approval for the separation of
the teaching and management cadres has been made, and will be implemented at the start of
FY03. The officers of the two departments have been asked to indicate their choice as to whether
they want. to become part of the teaching or management cadre. Although a large number of
officials want to be part of the management cadre, it is anticipated that implementation of this
initiative will encourage the development of a strong teaching cadre that is made up of those
educators that are dedicated, supported by a professional cadre of managers. The Department has
constituted committees which will interview officials to select as many as are required to
establish the management cadre. A draft of service rules and career structure of the schools
management and teaching cadre has been prepared.
*  Implementation of a comprehensive training program for the new district managers and making
the Nazims aware of the government policy has started from February 2002 with DFID funding
and technical support. The 18-month training is focusing on building planning skills and will be
completed by June 2003.
*  Contract appointments: The policy of appointing teaching staff on contract is part of the overall
provincial government policy and procedures, and has been notified for new appointments in the
education sector.
*  Staff rationalization: As mentioned above, a staff and facility rationalization exercise has been
completed and a redeployment plan has been prepared to implement the results of rationalization
exercise.
*  Accountability mechanism:  A start has been made by initiating a system of reward and
punishment on the basis of secondary and higher secondary school examination results for school
heads and teachers on a pilot basis.
*  Financial Management: Reconciliation of accounts was completed for Higher Education up to
May 2001 and for Literacy and School Education up to March 2001. District based school staff
(Assistant District Officer Accounts) has been appointed to specifically focus and handle
financial matters, audit and accounts. On the job training is being given to these officers. The
Departmnent arranged training of 120 Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs) in budget
handling and accounts keeping.
*  EMIS/PMIS and establishment of overall M&E system: The existing EMIS has only collected
data for primary schools in the past (including some limited data on private schools). Starting
this year (for school year 2001), data on secondary and higher education institutions has been
included in the census to make it more comprehensive. The report for this year's census is
expected to be finalized in June 2002. It has been decided to fund EMIS in the regular budget for
FY03 onwards.
15. Actions planned over the medium-term include:
*  Completion of the separation of teaching and management cadre during FY03.
*  As a result of rationalization exercise, 2410 positions of female teachers are planned to be filled
through contract appointment. Criteria for teacher recruitment on contract basis has been



Annex F
Page 9 of 10
approved. A teacher will be appointed for a specific school, and will not be able to transfer to
another facility.
*  An effective results-based performance evaluation system will be developed in FY03, and
implemented by end-FY03.
*  Continued full funding of EMIS and an allocation of Rs 3.0 million would be made through
recurrent budget for FY03 and thereafter.
Service Delivery Improvements
16.    To bring improvements in service delivery, the following actions have been taken:
*  O&M Budget: 29.1% of the total provincial O&M budget has been allocated to education and
health in the FY02 recurrent budget (as opposed to 23% in FY01).
*  The role of PTAs is being expanded to more actively monitor student and teacher absenteeism.
The departments fully recognize the need for reformation of PTAs, strengthening their roles and
functions and providing them legal cover. PTAs also can be formed in middle, secondary, and
colleges.
*  Monitoring Teacher Absenteeism: A new proforma has been developed to monitor primary
schools' teacher absenteeism every two weeks, and action based on these reports is being taken.
Action has been taken so far against 288 teachers who have been dismissed or have had other
disciplinary action (suspension) taken against them as a result of this new monitoring system.
Circle teams have also been formed (made up of ADO Inspection, ADO Training, and the EDO)
to perform monitoring and supervision through regular field visits, and further monitoring by the
Minister is also being undertaken.
17.    Over the medium-term the actions planned include:
*  The role of PTAs will further be strengthened including reforming of PTAs, particularly to
monitor student and teacher absenteeism.
*  Monitoring of teacher attendance will be further institutionalized, ensuring that the district
officials and DOE officers are involved and using the new monitoring tools.
Promoting Public-Private Partnerships
18.   One of the cornerstones of the education sector reform program is to promote public-private
partnership to expand private sector participation in the delivery of education services while ensuring
equitable access and quality of service. To this end, the following actions have been taken:
*  Innovative programs based on public-private partnerships have been initiated, including evening
shifts in existing Government primary schools to allow up-gradation of these schools to middle
and higher levels, and the Adopt-a-School Program. A Project Director for Public-Private
Collaboration has been appointed.
*  An Ordinance by the NWFP Government has been issuedfor the registration andfunctioning of
private educational institutions at all levels to regulate and facilitate the private sector's
participation in education.
*  The Frontier Education Foundation has been restructured to provide it autonomy to enable it to
facilitate the public-private partnerships. A new Managing Director from the private sector has



Annex F
Page 10 of 10
been posted, and other improvements are in the process of being implemented to make the FEF
more effective in reaching out to the private sector ensuring adequate and effective linkages with
the two departnents of education.
Strengthening Implementation and Monitoring
19.   Key factors that will ensure effective implementation of the program include following (among
others discussed in the foregoing sections), which the government intends to implement.
*  An Education Sector Reform Unit has been established to oversee and monitor the initiatives and
reforms in the education sector.
*  Approval of all PC-Is for programs included in the MTBF, which the Education and Finance
Department intend to undertake, will be given by end-July 2002.
*  Timely release offunds (during July) by the Finance Department.
*  Time bound implementation plan to be prepared by the Department of S&L by end-May and to
share it with districts during June 2002.
*  Regular monitoring by the districts of their program (by district Planning Units planned to be
established by the department) and, by the Department of S&L on provincial level (by M&E
Section of the Directorate of Education) using simple monitoring instruments that department will
prepare by mid-June 2002 with the help of a short term consultant.
*  Translating the monitoring indicators (as included in department's plan) into implementable and
monitorable targets for each district (e.g. enrollment increase, decreasing drop-out etc.) as has
been done in case of provision of physical facilities.
*  In order to have baseline information based on the reforms initiated, the NWFP Government
intends to commission a third party user and facility survey exercise that will assess the progress
till date of a 10% sample of all institutions in areas that include enrollment, teacher attendance,
quality inputs (such as teacher training), availability of IM&R funds at the school level, PTA
participation and condition of the physical resources (buildings, furniture, etc.) at the school level.
This survey will be completed during the third quarter of FY03 (by end-April 2003).



Annex G
Page I of 7
NWFP HEALTH SECTOR REFORMS
Key Issues
1.    NWFP has shown some gains in health outcomes during the 1990s. Recent evidence based on
the Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) and the Pakistan Reproductive Health and Family
Planning Survey (PRHFPS) undertaken in 2001, is broadly indicative of a rising trend in health and
population indicators. Despite some improvements, enormous challenges remain:
*  Roughly 46% of children less than two years of age are not fully immunized.
*  Use of contraceptive methods is limited to 21 percent of currently married women aged 15-49
years.
*  Large disparities persist in health outcomes between poor and non-poor households and between
rural and urban areas.
*  The utilization rate of primary health facilities has remained low and constant over the last decade
at an average of 22 outpatients per day, while average outpatient attendance at MCH centers has
risen from 7 to 10 per day.
Factors Constraining Health Sector Performance
2.     These include:
*  Low levels of government spending with average per capita expenditure on health of roughly Rs.
260 per annum in the past decade.
*  Poor returns to available resources attributable to weak and centralized management and other
governance issues, particularly related to personnel problems such as absenteeism, hiring of staff
on other than merit grounds, frequent transfers and mis-deployment of staff.
*  Weak motivation of staff due to lack of career development opportunities for health professionals.
*  Virtual neglect of the private sector, including poor regulation and monitoring of both public and
private providers.
Government Strategy To Address The Issues: The Reform Program And Plans
3.     The Departnent of Health's reform program is aimed at addressing the problems noted above.
The reform plan has been developed through a consultative process extending over four years and two
successive governments with involvement of a wide range of stakeholders. Through its Reform Program,
the NWFP Health Department expects to achieve the following outcomes:
*  Increase in development spending on health by an additional amount of Rs.3 billion over the three
year period.
*  An increase in full immunization coverage of children aged between 12-23 months from 54% to
80% by FY05.
*  There will be '0' cases of polio by FY05.
*  An increase in antenatal coverage of pregnant women by health professionals from 34% to 45%
by FY05.
*  An increase in contraceptive prevalence rate from 21% to 35% by FY05.
*  An increase in the percentage of population with access to TB Control using DOTS strategy from
20% to full coverage by FY05.
*  Increase in the number of Lady Health Workers (LHWs) deployed from 7800 to 14000 by FY05.
*  A restructured and efficient organization and management of the health sector program.



Annex G
Page 2 of 7
4.     The reform program comprises: increased financial allocations, organizational and management
reform and programmatic reforms. The NWFP Government has recently formally approved a medium
term health sector strategy which aims to consolidate organizational and programmatic reforms.
A.     Increased Financial Allocations
5.     The health reform program will be supported by a substantial increase of 120 percent in health
expenditures. The additional resources will support: (i) expansion of preventive health care programs
including of EPI and TB DOTS; (ii) building management capacity particularly at the district level with
the objective of developing an efficient and responsive district health system in the province; (iii)
rationalization and upgrading of health facilities at district level and below; (iv) creation of additional
positions of female nurses to address critical shortages at district and sub-district hospitals; (v) monitoring
and evaluation and special studies to track the progress of reforms; and (vi) various interventions to
improve maternal health through increased access to trained personnel at birth and raising community
awareness of reproductive health issues by government-NGO collaboration.
B.     Organizational And Management Reform
6.     The major thrust of the reform plan is on organizational and management reforms to improve the
efficiency of service delivery and to mobilize resources. The reform agenda includes:
* Restructuring of the Health Department in line with the devolution initiative.
*  Building institutional capacity for reforms.
*  Introduction of systematic transfer and posting policies.
*  Introduction of measures to reduce staff absenteeism and ensure availability of drug and supply of
inputs at the facility level.
*  Rationalization of district health care services.
*  Reducing shortages of female nurses in district and sub-district hospitals.
*  Introducing hospital autonomy.
*  Strengthening public-private partnership, including introduction of institution-based private
practice of doctors.
*  Monitoring the impact of the reforms on health outcomes and process indicators.
Actions Taken
7.     The Department has been restructured to reflect the emerging needs and roles in the context of
the devolution initiative. This restructuring involves a reduction in size of provincial staffing at the
Directorate and Secretariat, and a corresponding increase of human and financial resources at the district
level. Thus: (i) the provincial staff at the Directorate and the Secretariat have been reduced by 34% and
37% respectively, and budgets by 86% and 67% respectively; (ii) staff strength and budgets at the district
level have been increased by 39% and 67% respectively; (iii) the restructuring has been accompanied by
significant delegation of administrative and financial authority to the districts. Prior to the reform district
managers had very limited financial and personnel management authority, however under the new rules
concomitant with Category I powers, the Executive District Officer's Health (EDOs) are authorized to
make all purchases within their jurisdiction, and are empowered to hire and discipline staff in grades I to
15 in all categories. For officer level staff, the EDO has authority for postings and transfers within the
district. The roles and responsibilities for different levels have been clearly identified and notified; and
(iv) a managerial cadre at the district level has been introduced to make optimal use of the nearly 100
health personnel trained in public health management, hospital management, etc. several of whom are



Annex G
Page 3 of 7
employed in inappropriate positions. The management cadre will primarily consist of positions in the
District Health Management Teams including EDO Health and related staff as well as the hospital
management teams including Medical Superintendents and their teams. The terms and conditions of this
cadre have been developed. The cadre is expected to be given legislative cover.
8.     The Institutional Capacity for Reforms is being strengthened. A Health Sector Reform Unit
(HSRU) has been notified to strengthen the institutional capacity for planning and monitoring the process
of policy and management reforms. HSRU will serve as a technical backstopping unit for the newly
established district health systems and will also be responsible for coordinating donor assistance for
health sector reforms. The HSRU is staffed with a Chief, Deputy Chief for the Federally Administered
Tribal Areas (FATA), and four senior planning officers. While at present the HSRU is operating on an
ad-hoc basis, it will be incorporated in the ADP as part of the cross sectoral capacity building program
with formnal approval of the PC I for the HSRU expected by August 2002.
9.     A Systematic Transfer and Posting Policies has been introduced. A new policy notified by the
Department of Health enhances transparency in procedures for transfers and posting. The selection of
Executive District Health Officers (EDOs) has been undertaken through interviews and clearly specified
criteria including appropriate qualifications and management experience. In this process, 24 EDOs
Health and four coordinators each for each EDO were selected by a high level committee of the Health
Department headed by the Minister of Health and which included the Secretary Health and DG Health.
For each post a panel of three persons was interviewed and the best qualified officer was appointed as
EDO. This marks a major departure from past routine transfer procedures on the basis of seniority.
10.    Measures have been taken to Reduce Staff Absenteeism. These include the: (i) introduction of
facility specific contracts for new recruitment; (ii) monitoring of BHU staff through routine visits by
district staff and reported on monitoring formats; (iii) strengthening of supervisory staff at the district
level and below; and (iv) taking of disciplinary action against routinely absent staff, as a result of which
over 300 staff have been affected.
11.   Rationalization of Health Care Services has been initiated. Historically health facilities have
been added to the Health Department over a period of time in an incremental manner and currently the
province has a total of 1593 facilities. comprising District, Tehsil and Civil Hospitals, RHCs, BHUS,
MCH Centers, Sub Health Centers, etc. The poorly planned expansion of the health infrastructure
including wrong site selection inappropriate staffing and budgeting, duplications with similar facilities in
close proximity is a major cause of low utilization rates. To address this problem the Department is
implementing a pilot for rationalizing health services in the district of Charsadda which will serve as a
model for wider replication across the province over the next 3 years. A detailed mapping of facilities by
workload and access to nearest medical facility has been completed in Charsadda and has been used as
the basis for redeployment of staff and resources into three broad categories of health facilities:
Community Health Centre (CHC) with doctor; CHC without doctor and hospitals graded as A, B, C and
D. The number of facilities in the district is being reduced to half the existing number (from 43 to 23)
through the closure of health centers with very limited workload. A decision has also been taken to
withdraw doctors from 80% of primary health facilities and to post them to LSMFs while the primary
facilities will be run by female paramedics.
12.   Autonomy has been granted to tertiary hospitals as follows: (i) the NVFP Government enacted an
Autonomy Bill in 1999 to enable granting of managerial and financial authority to four tertiary
government hospitals; (ii) detailed Rules of Business under the 1999 Act were developed and formally
approved in June 2001. These confer a high degree of financial and management authority to the Chief
Executive of the autonomous hospitals. With these rules in place, the decisions regarding cost recovery
and exemption mechanisms have effectively been given to the Institutional Management Communities



Annex G
Page 4 of 7
(IMC) rather than the Government; (iii) the Chief Executives of three of the four autonomous hospitals
have been hired on a contract basis at market salaries; (iv) the Government financing of these institutions
is to be capped at the current level for the next three years; and (v) cost recovery has been introduced in
some hospitals particularly for diagnostic services however as yet there has been no significant increase in
user charges for outpatients and inpatients to general wards. Mechanisms for protecting the poor need to
be further defined. Anecdotal evidence suggests an improvement in availability of medicines and
presence of staff however a framework for systematic monitoring and evaluation of the impact of these
reforms on hospital performance and access to hospital services has not been developed.
13.   Public Private Partnership is being strengthened.  Recognizing the need to engage more
effectively with the private sector including NGOs, the Department of Health is experimenting with some
initiatives to enhance public private collaboration which are elaborated below. Here it needs to be
mentioned that all three pilots lack an adequate monitoring and evaluation framework to enable
assessment of their impact on service delivery.
(i)  A Basic Health Unit in the remote district of Kohistan has been contracted out to a
Japanese funded NGO for a five year period for provision of free service to the population
of the area. The government's contribution is limited to the building and existing
equipment while the NGO is responsible for staffing, maintenance and all supplies and has
exclusive administrative control.
(ii) An Emergency Satellite Centre (ASC), which includes a select number of specialist
services and serves.a catchment population of 150,000 has been leased to a UK based NGO
with partners in Pakistan. In this case all the inputs including the physical infrastructure,
staff, medicines and other supplies are provided by the Department and the revenue from
user charges which are based on standard government rates also accrues to the public
treasury. The NGO is responsible for management. The staff reports directly to the NGO
rather than the EDO.
(iii) The District Hospital Mansehra has entered into a contract with the Frontier Medical
College of Abbottabad, a private sector entity, for utilizing the facilities at the hospital for
teaching purposes. Payment under the contract which is initially for a three year period is
on the basis of a capitation fee at the rate of Rs.50,000 per student per annum.per class.
Under this arrangement an estimated amount of Rs.15 million will be paid to the hospital
over three years. The government is responsible for provision of the development and
recurrent budget including staffing.
14.   Institution-based Private Practice has been initiated. A change in the rules of appointment and
conduct has been enforced effective March 1, 2002 whereby government doctors and paramedic and
nursing staff cannot undertake private practice outside the government facility in the evenings, as has
been the prevalent trend. Instead, institution-based private practice of doctors has been introduced in
public hospitals during evening hours, when outpatient services are closed at these facilities. While the
aim of reducing absenteeism and increasing utilization of Government facilities is laudable a careful
review of the effectiveness of the scheme is necessary including the perspectives of all concerned
stakeholders.
15.   Monitoring the Impact of the Reforms on Health Outcomes and Process Indicators has been
initiated A baseline Multi Indicator. Cluster Survey has been completed in 2001 with assistance from
UNICEF. The data show wide differences across district in key process indicators, e.g., proportion of
births attended by trained health workers varies between 3 and 64 percent. The data have been used to
rank districts on the basis of selected human development indicators with the objective of identifying
districts which will need investment and technical support to improve social outcomes.



Annex G
Page 5 of 7
Actions Planned in the Medium Term
16.   In the medium term, the Department of Health plans to consolidate the process of management
and organizational reform through: building capacity of district health teams; rationalization and
upgrading of secondary health facilities; creation of female nursing positions to address shortages in
district and sub-district hospital; formulation of a policy framework for public private partnerships;
development of a financing and monitoring framework for autonomous hospitals with the aim of ensuring
equity and efficiency; and completion of a master plan for longer term health sector reforms to ensure
continuity of the process.
17.   Capacity Development of the District Health Teams: Capacity of district managers will be built in
areas of planning, needs based budget formulation, and personnel management to enable them to
discharge their new responsibilities effectively. In view of the importance of strengthening management
capacity to the successful functioning of the devolved system, detailed training plans will be developed
on a priority basis and approved within the current fiscal year. The HSRU and the Provincial Health
Service Academy will provide assistance in systems development and training activities.
18.   Rationalization and Upgrading of Secondary Health Services will be undertaken in selected
districts in a phased manner along the lines of the Charsadda Pilot. A comprehensive mapping exercise
based on selected criteria including patient load will serve as the basis of redeployment of staff and
resources, ensuring appropriate skill mix, and identifying requirements for upgrading physical
infrastructure. The detailed plan for rationalization will then be agreed with the District Nazims before
formal approval. The Charsadda pilot which has gone through these various stages is ready for
implementation pending approval by the Governor. Considerable progress has also been achieved in
developing plans for another 13 districts through consultation with the District Nazims and the
Department.
19.   Reducing Critical Shortages of Female Nurses: A 3-year program has been approved to increase
substantially female nursing positions in district and sub-district hospitals. As a result the nurses to
hospital beds ratios will be brought closer in line with standards laid down by the Pakistan Nursing
Council. Reducing the imbalance in staffing will be an essential pre-requisite to improving the quality of
secondary health facilities.
20.    Promoting Public-Private Partnerships: The Department of health will be move beyond the
current approach of ad-hoc partnerships and will developing a policy framework for future collaboration
with NGOs and the private sector. Standard operation procedures and protocols including outsourcing
contracts between public and private agencies/NGOs will be developed. Use of NGOs will be fostered
particularly in the HIV-AIDS and TB DOTS control programs and in raising community awareness of
reproductive health issues.
21.   In addition a pilot community health financing scheme managed by an NGO will be implemented
in selected union councils in two districts of the province. The prepayment scheme will assess the
feasibility of pooling health risks among the rural population through greater participation of local
communities.
22.    Evidence Based Decision Making: The following Monitoring and Evaluation and Analytical
Studies would be undertaken:
* Monitoring and Evaluation: Follow-up third party district household surveys will be undertaken
regularly to assess the impact of reform on intermediate health indicators. Such information,
collected independently, would contribute to increasing accountability of district governments



Annex G
Page 6 of 7
and would enable the provincial governments to monitor progress of priority programs. The data
will provide a valuable means of triangulating HMIS data and thereby serve to improve the
quality and use of HMIS statistics.
*  Evaluation of Autonomous Hospitals to assess the reform's impact on utilization of hospital care
by the poor, in addition to measuring other dimensions of performance such as efficiency, quality
of services and financial performance.
*  User Cost Study: A study has been designed to measure the cost of delivery of selected hospital
services to the Government and based on paying capacity of the users, and other related policy
objectives, a cross subsidization regime will be studied. The study is planned to be completed
within the next year to inform policy and design on structuring cost recovery while protecting the
poor.
*  Master plan for longer term reforms in the health sector: The HSRU with technical assistance
from the Asian Development Bank and bilateral donors is undertaking several studies
(institutional analysis, needs assessment for management capacity building, financial analysis,
review of legal aspects of reform, social analysis, review of options for improving quality of
health care, stakeholder analysis and health sector reform tracking system) which will serve to
define the parameters of management and financial reforms. A master plan of longer term health
sector reforms based on this body of empirical and analytical work will be completed and
approved following a consultative process with key stakeholders. This would be an essential step
towards ensuring continuity of the reform process.
C.     Programmatic Reforms
23. On the programmatic front, the reform plan reaffirms the importance assigned to preventive health
care and specifically aims to increase access to immunization, TB control and maternal and child health
care services. Strategic medium-term plans have been developed to strengthen and expand priority
preventive programs including EPI and TB DOTS for the FY03-FY05 period, with adequate provision of
resources in the FY02 ADP.
Actions Taken
24.   Expanded Program of Immunization: NWFP has seen some improvement in immunization
coverage. The proportion of children fully immunized has risen from 39 percent in the mid-nineties to
54% by the end of the decade. Polio cases have been reduced from 57 in 2000 to 28 in 2001, with a target
of eliminating polio and achieving zero polio cases by FY05. A provincial task force, chaired by the
Governor, for polio elimination has been overseeing an aggressive campaign against polio. Intensive
efforts have also been made to improve supplementary TT immunization of pregnant women in 15 high
risk areas. The plan for strengthening and expansion of routine immunization with GAVI support has
been approved by the Planning Department. This expanded program includes support for activities such
as monitoring, staff development, and cold chain improvement.
25.   Increasing TB DOTS Coverage: The TB DOTS program has been revitalized in 5 districts and
some agencies during 2001, and is now covering roughly 20 percent of the population. The program is
using LHWs, family members and health staff to ensure compliance with treatment. Adequate resources
have been allocated but utilization is slow due to capacity constraints at the district level.
26.   Maternal Health including Family Planning: The Maternal and Child Health and Family
Planning Program has been fully funded in FY02, and its outcome has resulted in significant
improvement in key indicators of maternal health services, including coverage of antenatal care and
attendance at births of trained health service providers, as indicated by the Pakistan Reproductive Health



Annex G
Page 7 of 7
and Family Planning Survey data. The positive trend is likely to be due to the intensive efforts to
improve immunization of pregnant women by active involvement of LHWs.
Actions Planned in the Medium Term
27.   In the medium term, the Department plans to prioritize expansion of coverage and quality of
services in communicable disease control programs of immunization (including elimination of polio in
NWFP by FY05), TB DOTS, malaria and maternal health with a particular focus on poorly performing
districts.
28.    Given the wide inter-district variation in performance, the Department plans to intensify its focus
on increasing coverage of EPI in poorly performing districts to enable it to meet its target of 80 percent
coverage by FY05. The enhanced 5-year EPI program with GAVI support emphasizes performance
based disbursement as well as technical assistance and managerial support to poorly performing districts.
Other strategies include: (i) increasing mobility and travel and per diem (TA/DA) allowances of
vaccinators; (ii) involvement of LHWs in the immunization campaign; (iii) expansion of EPI centers; and
(iv) social mobilization initiatives.
29.    The Department also plans to expand and ensure quality of the TB DOTS program: The TB
DOTS program aims to increase coverage up to 100% by FY05 and improve TB cure rates to 85%, and
achieve a 70% case detection rate by FY05. In addition to the government allocations, the program will
be supported by KfW and GTZ through interventions which include: (i) establishing partnership with an
NGO with the requisite expertise and successful experience of collaboration with government on TB
DOTS; (ii) implementation of programs in refugee populations (iii) strengthening capacity for monitoring
and supervision.
30.    Access to maternal health services and family planning services will be improved through  the
deployment of an additional 1800 Lady Health Worker raising their total number from 7800 at present to
9600 by the end of 2003 and to 14000 by 2005. As a result coverage of primary health care and family
planning services provided through the Lady Health Worker's Program will increase from the current 37
percent to roughly 50 percent in FY03 and 75 percent of the population of NWFP by FY05.
31.    The medium term strategy places a strong emphasis on improving maternal health. Interventions
specifically aimed at reducing maternal deaths include the development of a community midwifery
program, upgrading of secondary hospital and promoting NGO involvement in raising awareness at the
community level on all aspects of reproductive health.
32.    Midwifery training will be provided to selected LHWs and other appropriately qualified
applicants with preference for residents of poorly performing districts. The training will be provided
where possible at the district level in a phased manner with provision for a maximum of 25-30 students
including 20 LHWs and 5-10 private candidates. Linkages of the trained midwives in the private sector
with the various levels of health services will be fostered through the LHW supervisory system and
through provision of supplies.
33.    Additionally, partnerships are envisaged with NGOs to raise community awareness on all aspects
of reproductive health and to develop linkages between community and the primary and secondary level
facilities. The proposed collaboration would benefit from the experience of the Haripur Reproductive
Health Pilot supported by Save the Children Fund which is widely regarded as a successful model of
community mobilization to improve reproductive health. These initiatives together with upgradation of
secondary hospitals with appropriate skill mix of staff are expected to contribute to increased referral
particularly for emergency obstetric care critical for reducing maternal mortality.



Annex H
Page I of 8
NWFP CIVIL SERVICE AND GOVERNANCE REFORMS
I.    It is important to recognize the scale of the governance program changes being undertaken in
NWFP. This is clear from the various reform documents, notably the Provincial Reform Program 2001-
04 which was approved by the provincial Cabinet on June 19, 2001, the White Paper 2001-2002, and the
Budget Speech of 28 June 2001, as well as recent discussions with the government officials. The main
objective of these reforms is to improve service delivery for better economic outcomes and improve
social indicators, such as poverty, basic education, basic health, and basic community-oriented
infrastructure.
2.    NWFP has already made a great deal of progress in restructuring provincial government
departments and preparing for devolution. This has resulted in some organizational streamlining. The
district governments have been organized and staffed in a timely manner (with key staff, including the
District Coordination Officers, already appointed), and a great deal of work has gone into identifying and
inventorying the assets of the new local governments.
3.    The province has made a promising start at civil service reform, implementing various measures
such as enforcing better discipline, restructuring the provincial government in preparation for devolution,
transferring administrative staff within the provincial government, preparing for the use of contract
appointments, and improving the performance evaluation process (along the lines instituted by the federal
government). In the longer term, the government has identified four main areas of concern: low
compensation at senior levels; declining quality of new entrants; very limited resources for adjustment;
and a large base of current/retired government employees. These challenges would have to be confronted
as the reform process continues.
4.     The provincial governance and civil service reforms are based on three main pillars:
(a) Devolution - including restructuring the provincial government, budgeting and resource
allocation for the future, and setting up the new district arrangements, including assigning staff,
identifying new roles in the new structures, introducing new systems, and finalizing the powers
of the main bodies.
(b)  Personnel management - of which the most radical is the planned move to much greater use of
contract and facility specific appointments. Other measures include rightsizing and restructuring
government departments, managing staff under the new devolved system, providing more
administrative autonomy to the provincial Public Service Commission (PSC), a new performance
appraisal system, and pulling together the formerly scattered regulatory framework into a new
codified manual, Estacode.
(c)  Capacity building - which, as time and resources permit, will need to include the necessary
facilities and equipment for the devolved organizations, training both on and off the job, and
appropriate new systems and procedures as well as better information systems.
5.     Given the complexity and scope of the reforms, this Annex highlights only the most significant
areas in which changes have already been made or are envisaged.



Annex H
Page 2 of 8
A.     Devolution
6.     The following actions have been taken.
*  Government departments have been restructured both at the provincial and district level. The
district level restructuring was carried out taking into account the actual needs and the resource
availability. Administrative control of district departments is now with the district governments.
*  Key district staff have been being posted. All District Coordinating Officers (DCOs) have been
appointed, and most of the Executive District Officers (EDOs), especially the key ones of
education and health, are also in place. Most of the line department staff are in place (around
200,000 out of a total of 280,000). Data on the staff at the district levels are being compiled.
*  Performance monitoring systems have been set up. The Governor chairs a monthly meeting of
district Nazims and officials to discuss governance issues and review performance. Monitoring
committees have been constituted by all the district (Zila) Councils. Dispute Resolution
("Masalahat") Committees have been set up at the sub-district levels. As per the Local
Government Ordinance, a Local Government Commission is being constituted to oversee the
working of local govermments and to help in conflict resolution. The Commission will comprises
members from both public and private/non-government sectors.
*  Fiscal devolution has begun. Provincial, and Local Fund accounts have been opened at the
district, tehsil and union council levels. Mechanisms for smooth transfer of funds from the
provinces to the districts and lower levels have been set up. All district government tehsils and
Union administrations have prepared and passed their budgets. The taxation powers of the
district, tehsil and union councils have been defined and sphere of administration had been
delineated. Local govenments have begun the process of rationalizing user charges and finding
innovative ways of raising local resources. To date the development funds of the KPP, SAP, ESR
and the President's Program for Rehabilitation of Education have been devolved to the districts. It
has been decided that all non-salary recurrent expenditures would be devolved to the district in
FY03-04, while salary expenditures would remain with the provincial governments for sometime.
*  Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) has been conducted to get baseline data at the district
level. The government with the assistance of UNICEF has conducted a MICS covering a large
number of socio-economic indicators to develop a district-level baseline. The survey would be a
useful tool to monitor future performance and to .make formula-based resource allocation
decisions among districts.
*  Creation of a Cadre of district employees for social sectors. The government has set up a special
cadre of district employees in the Education and Health Departments to ensure effective control
(hiring and firing powers) and improve provision of social services. The staff in grades 1-15
would be recruited from the district on the recommendation of a District Recruitment Committee
(comprising provincial and district officials). Postings and transfers of these functionaries would
be within the district; and district authorities would be able to take disciplinary actions against
these employees.
* Accountability mechanisms have been put in place. To ensure accountability of district level
functionaries, the government proposes to appoint an eminent jurist as a Provincial Mohtasib
(Ombudsman) with offices in each district. The NWFP government also proposes to set up an
ambitious Accountability Management System where performance of individuals and
departments would be evaluated against measurable criteria.



Annex H
Page 3 of 8
B.     Restructuring and Rightsizing of Government Departments
7.     The following actions have been taken.
* As a result of devolution to the district levels, full set of departmental restructuring plans were
prepared, including inventories of staff and material (notably office and residential
accommodation, vehicles, furniture and equipment). In several cases quite radical slimming
down of provincial structures occurred, which reflects new approaches to business rather than
simply a minimal response to the needs of devolution. The restructuring/reorganization of 14
Administrative Department and 16 Attached Departrnents was carried out during FY01. The
following are some examples of the restructuring exercise.
>  In order to raise the standard of education and give focused attention to primary and higher
education, the Education Department was bifurcated into the Primary Education and Literacy
Department and the Secondary and Higher Education Department.
>  To distribute the heavy workload, the Services and General Administration Department
(S&GAD) was bifurcated into the Establishment Department and Administration
Department.
>  The Environment Department which was under the Planning and Development Department,
was separated and attached with the Forests Department to ensure better functional
equivalence.
> To ensure integrated approach to infrastructure development, the Communications and Works
(C&W) Department, the Public Health Departments, and Public Health Engineering
Departments have been merged into the Works and Services Department (W&S).
>  The Excise and Taxation Department which was attached to the Finance Department has been
made into a independent organization.
>  To give special attention to IT, a special cell on Information Technology has been created in
the Governor's Secretariat.
>  A number of attached Departments were either abolished or converted into independent Cells,
such as the Directorate of Local Government and Rural Development has been made part of
the Office of the DCO; Chief Engineer C&W has been merged into the Provincial Highway
Authority; Registrar of Cooperative Societies has been converted into a Cooperative Cell;
Directorate of Artificial Insemination and the Frontier Cooperative Bank have been
dissolved, the Directorate of Industry and Commerce has been merged with the Labor
Directorate.
>  A number of offices/departments which were not useful were abolished, such as the Price
Stabilization Cell; Sarhad Overseas Cell; Supply wing of the Industries Directorate,
Manpower Directorate; C&W Store division; Pawinda Cell Home Department, etc.



Annex H
Page 4 of 8
*  As a result of the above-mentioned restructuring/rightsizing of government departments, there are
now 23 Departments and 40 attached Departments (down from 46). This exercise helped in
meeting the requirement of creating 12 line departments according to the Devolution plan within
the existing staff resources without creating a large number of posts.! It also resulted in a pool of
6,162 surplus staff of which all except for 1,414 have been relocated. The restructuring has been
accompanied by a reduction in the number of ministers from the previous 40, to the current 10.
*  Close to 90% of the staff in the surplus pool came from lower government grades (BPS grades 1-
11 ) where overstaffing has traditionally been a problem. The surplus pool also got staff from
departments which had the bulk of the provincial employment (Education and Health) or were
overstaffing was a problem (e.g. Agriculture, Revenue and Estate, Works and Services and
Forestry). However, the problems in the current staffing mix created by the large number of
unqualified (and often illiterate) staff at lower levels will remain. This will be addressed over
time by attrition - as no new staff is being hired below grade 11.
* Well defined criteria for declaring any staff surplus were formulated and notified. The policy of
last-in-first-out was followed. The NWFP Civil Service laws were amended to incorporate staff
in the surplus pool. All those declared surplus are being adjusted in other available positions. In
line with the Federal government's restructuring/rightsizing exercise and to make the reforms
politically acceptable, pay and benefits of surplus staff were protected, even if staff were to be
place in a position below what they occupied at redundancy. To date, about half of these surplus
employees have been placed in 8,000 posts that had been identified under sanctioned posts under
the new district governments, after matching requirements with the skills mix and experience of
the surplus staff.
* Closure of Autonomous Bodies. The provincial government has decided to wind up all of its
Autonomous Bodies, by privatizing, liquidating, or closing them. The goal is not to have any
public sector role in provision of goods and services and in commercial activities in which the
private sector can play a role. Also closure of the public enterprises and autonomous bodies will
lead to better utilization of public management capacity. In the short-term, the government
intends to restructure some of the units in order to fetch a better price at the time of their sales.
Thus:
>  The Fruit and Vegetable Development Board was closed down in 2001. The Board met all
obligations related to its closure from its own resources.
>  The Agriculture Development Authority (ADA) was closed down in the last quarter of 2001,
with no outstanding loans to be paid to the provincial government.
>  Liquidators have been appointed for the Frontier Cooperative Bank who are in process of
valuing the assets of the bank in preparation for liquidation.
>  The Provincial Urban Development Board has been wound up.
>  The Bank of Khyber is being prepared for privatization. A chartered accountant firm has been
hired to prepare the privatization document. The government is planning to reduce its
shareholding to below 50% by FY04 and complete divestiture by FY05.
> With respect to the remaining Autonomous Bodies, the government will restructure the
Sarhad Hydel Development Organization (SHYDO), convert the Sarhad Development
'Creating 12 departments at the district levels required more than new 50,000 positions.



Annex H
Page 5 of 8
Authority (SDA) into an Investment Facilitation Board and is in the process of reviewing and
the structure and functions of the Small Industries Development Board (SlDB).
C.     Personal Management Reforms
8.     The following actions been taken.
* A recruitment ban applies to all grades and requires the Governor to exempt any critical
vacancies. The ban has been upheld successfully and there has been very little new recruitment.
There has been a reduction in sanctioned posts from 281,759 to 279,250.
*  Merit and Professionalism. The Recruitment policy has been made more transparent. The
provincial Public Service Commission (PSC) has been strengthened and made more autonomous,
through appropriate changes in its legislation and government's administrative and Financial
Rules. All Commission members are in place. The Commnission gained responsibility for
appointments to all officer level (grade 17 and above) posts and many posts between grade 11 -
16. The PSC Rules (Function) of 1983 have been amended, enabling the Commission to recruit
contract staff when required by the government.
* Transfers and postings policy have been made more transparent. The Provincial Government
Postings and Transfer Policy has been notified. The Policy specifies the tenure and criteria for
transfers of civil servants. To avoid conflict of interest, officers of executive/administrative posts
would not be placed in their residence of domicile. Some gender sensitive considerations have
been put in the policy, such as if both spouses are government servants, efforts would be made to
post them at the same stations, and posting unmarried female employees near their home.
*  Objective criteria have been defined for Promotion of civil servants. The notification gives
detailed guidelines regarding the criteria for promotion and lays out an objective weights-based
formula for evaluating civil servants up for promotion. The new appraisal system is more
focused on performance and less on personal characteristics; and it seeks to curb the tendency for
all officers to receive high assessments. Points are given for academic qualification, research
papers/publications,  teaching  experience,  foreign  training/courses,  participation  in
workshops/seminars, as well as the past performance based on the Annual Confidential Reports
(ACRs). The concept had been especially applied in the "Award of BPS-21 in Meritorious
Service cases" scheme.
*  A merit based performance evaluation policy has been formulated. The proforma for writing
Annual Confidential Reports (ACRs) has been revised and procedures have been modified so that
ACRs are written on time.
* Civil service pay has been raised in line with the Federal government's pay and pension reform
which has been effective from January 2002. The revised pay-scales restore a substantial portion
of the lost purchasing power of wages (which had not been increased since 1994), decompresses
the salary scale for every grade, and subsumes all ad-hoc salary increases obtained by some
services between 1994 and 2000. The impact of the increase in pay for FY02 (half-year) is
around Rs. 5 billion. The new pension scheme has reduced the commutation from 50 to 40
percent and calculates the commutations on the basis of reduced, more actuarially fair,
commutation factors.
* The rules and regulations governing personnel management (as pulled together in the Estacode)
had become excessively complicated and opaque over time. The government is rewriting and
simplifying these rules in a new Establishment Code (Estacode). Volume One of the Code has
been published.



Annex H
Page 6 of 8
*  Provincial Rules of Business are being updated. New set of District Rules of Business have been
compiled and have been published in the context of the Devolution.
*  Special efforts are being undertaken to remove corrupt and inefficient civil servants. Existing
Anti-Corruption Rules have been revised. Under the Federal Government Anti-Corruption
Strategy, the Anti-Corruption Agency's organizational role is being reviewed.
*  Disciplinary rules have been substantially modified in the Removal from Service (Special
Powers) Ordinances, 2000 and 2001. Procedures to try corrupt and inefficient civil servants has
been streamlined and simplified. Earlier a Committee took up cases against civil servants but now
the Chief Secretary and Director Anti-Corruption look into the case which has speeded up the
process. This has resulted in a record number of corruption cases were taken up (2,224) and
decided (1,396) within the last three years. Around 300 Education Department employees
(including teachers) have been dismissed for negligence and prolonged absence from duties.
* A Compulsory Retirement Policy has been introduced in line with the Federal government policy,
through the NWFP Civil Service Ordinance 2000 and 2001, to weed out inefficient government
servants who had completed 20 years of service.
*  Improving Human Resource Management is being given greater attention. The proposal to move
towards a more significant use of contract-based employment is a brave and determined step, and
offers a practical method for increasing flexibility and for limiting future pension liabilities.
Introducing extensive contract-based employment may require piloting. Avoiding any risk of
regularization of contract staff will at the very least require an amendment to the 1973 Civil
Servants Act. Recruitment on contract will now fall within the purview of the provincial PSC.
However, it will also require a similar change to the purview of the Service Tribunal if appeals to
the civil courts are to be kept to the minimum.
*  The flexibility provided by the greater use of contract staff will place a greater responsibility on
managers to plan and use their human resource effectively. This will require that the average
tenure of Secretaries and other senior staff is extended from the current 7.5 months.
*  One key issue to be addressed is that there is no centralized human resource database. The
Finance Department tracks sanctioned posts rather than staff, and thus:
>  It is unable to identify readily whether there are ghosts. With a centralized database
consistent with the payroll, a comprehensive census or some sample headcounts can be
compared against the database to determine whether there are significant discrepancies.
>  In budget preparation, the Department is reliant on manual submissions from  line
Departments on their current workforce, and it is difficult to ensure the accuracy of these.
>  Perhaps most significantly from a fiscal perspective, the government cannot undertake any
actuarial analyses of its pension liability, as it does not know the age profile and the
retirement dates of its workforce.
* Without centralized human resource databases, Departments are unable to exercise any
meaningful workforce planning. Without an overview of staff, their ages, their work locations,
their skills, and their qualifications, the government cannot identify any pressing skills gaps, and
cannot ensure that staff resources are distributed appropriately.
* The most promising approach for developing a HR database is by building up from the
computerized payroll data. The government plans to develop this database from computerized



Annex H
Page 7 of 8
payroll data during FY03-04; the planned civil servants census in FY04 would help in validating
this HR database.
D.     Capacity Building
9.    The following reforms are underway:
* There is general agreement that a process of capacity building is essential to make a success of
the deep and widespread changes involved in governance reforms. In particular, there are
multifaceted capacity building needs related to devolution. Cognizant of the huge capacity
building needs, especially to implement the PRP and the expanded social sector programs, the
government has initiated a review of unmet capacity needs. It has already decided to establish the
Education and Health Sector Reforms Units, the Budget Analysis Unit and overall Reform
Implementation Unit. Draft capacity building plans for health, education and local government
have been drawn up. The government has recently approved a comprehensive three-year capacity
building program to strengthen managerial and technical capacity of provincial and district level
officials to support the reform program. Other important initiatives that have been taken to build
capacity in the province are:
>  Essential Institutional Reform Operationalization Project (EIROP)) funded by UNDP, SDC
and GTZ has been initiated in March 2001 to assist with HR and institutional reform and
support comprehensive capacity building and training at the district level. The EIROP will be
implemented over three years. Under this project all the District Nazims and the DCOs
would shortly be visiting Nepal and Philippines to get a first-hand feel for the local
government functioning in those countries and learn from shared experiences. Other
capacity-building components under this program include setting up of District Citizen
Information Centers, assisting the Provincial Finance Commissions, and provincial tasks
forces on decentralization.
>  A training program for the new elected representatives and officials has been launched at
district and lower levels. In phase I, all union councilors were trained according to the NRB
curriculum. Three regional workshops have been held for Nazims and government
functionaries. A special training program for female representatives in the local governments
is also planned.
> The government has started holding training of district government functionaries in Financial
Management, Budgeting, and Development Planning.
> The government has launched a program of IT training for Section Officers in line with the
Federal government program.
> The Community Infrastructure Project (CIP), an intervention financed by the Bank and
GoNWFP, aims at capacity building of the communities at the Tehsil level for improved
involvement in the local development.
>  With the aim of strengthening the Tehsil and Union Council communities and state
functionaries in service delivery the GoNWFP in collaboration with the joint Bank-Water and
Sanitation Program (WSP) has initiated a pilot intervention in Dera Ismail Khan district of
NWFP.
>  IUCN Pakistan and SDC (through SPCS-IV PSDN Project) have been assisting GoNWFP
and the non-profit sector to improve its systems and performance for improved service
delivery.



Annex H
Page 8 of 8
E.     Other Institutional Reforms
10.   In addition, the broader reforms noted above, the government has also initiated the following
reforms:
*  Judicial Reforms.  The provincial government is committed to making the judiciary
administratively and financially independent. The judicial and executive functions have been
legally separated. The judiciary was granted financial independence a few years ago. This gave
them full control on spending based on their allocated budget without recourse to approval of
other departments in matters of staffing, postings, etc. The Judicial Service Rules have been
recently revised. The Chief Justice of the NWFP High Court is now in charge of all judicial
appointments and personnel issues.
* E-Governance. The government has begun to take the first steps in establishing e-govemance.
At present the systems within the P&D, Finance and the Home Departments are being networked.
In the next stage networks would be set up for Education and Health Departments.
*  It is proposed to extend these networks to other government departments and link the
Departmental networks once they are completed.
* The provincial and district governments are discussing setting up e-governance Public
Information Centers on a pilot basis which will carry the standard government forms and other
documents.



Annex I
Page I of 7
NWFP PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
Overview
1.     The industrial sector in NWFP has been in a serious recession: of the total of 1,970 registered
industrial units established in NWFP,' one-third are closed down. Moreover, of the total functioning
units, 60% are operating at below capacity. At the same time, exports have been growing at an impressive
pace during the last several years. From around US$37 million in FY97, exports more grown by six
.imes over five years to US$223 million in FY012 As Table 1 indicates the biggest and also fast growing
exports in dollar terms have been traditional goods from NWFP such as precious and semi-precious
stones, carpets and rugs and handicrafts. However, a wide range of new products, including cotton yarn
and machine tools have also started entering the export market in the last few years. This apparent
dichotomy between industrial and export performance can be partly explained by the fact that most
export-oriented industries are predominantly oprating in the informal/cottage industry sector, while the
industrial decline has been in the formal sector.
Key Issues
2.     The following are key issues facing private sector development:
*   With around 44%   people below the poverty line, there is an urgent need to create more
employment.
*   The slump in the formal industrial sector is attributed to overall depressed market conditions;
poor credit accessibility; lack of technical manpower; economic policy distortions, including
over-regulation; price interventions affecting both outputs and inputs; high tax rates and poor tax
administration; trade restrictions; the government crowding out the private sector; and inadequate
infrastructure (especially roads).
*   The province suffers from locational disadvantages: it is landlocked and is over a thousand miles
away from the Karachi seaport. As it is highly dependent on the south for both its inputs/raw
materials and markets, higher transportation costs make it difficult for NWFP's industry to
compete. Until a few month ago there was a virtual ban on land route trade via Afghanistan which
restricted the potential for exports to markets in the neighboring region.
*   At this point in time, NWFP is poised to take full advantage of the post-war reconstruction in
Afghanistan by using its locational proximity for facilitating private sector development and
generating overall economic growth. After the establishment of the Interim Authority in
Afghanistan post September 11 events, there have been several moves by the Pakistani
government to help the private sector participate in reconstruction efforts and expand trade with
Afghanistan. Significant headway has been made in the long standing demand of the NWFP
Fifty percent of the total number of industrial units in NWFP are located in the four industrial estates/EPZ established by the
Sarhad Development Authority (SDA) and nine small industrial estates/clusters set up by the Sarhad Industries Development
Board (SIDB).
2 According to many private sector representatives, this is an underestimated figure as a lot of exports from Karachi, Sialkot and
other cities originate from NWFP. However, EPB only includes export data related to firms holding licenses in NWFP.
3 Of the top five exporting items viz. carpets/rugs; cotton yarn; gemstones, leather and honey, only cotton yarn is predonminantly
(95%/o) in the formal sector and is produced in industrial estates.



Annex I
Page 2 of 7
private sector to allow free trade with Afghanistan with a minimal negative list.4 According to
recent estimates the land route trade has increased significantly after September and now stands at
Rs. 14 million per day. The govemment plans to set up trade warehouses on the Pakistan-
Afghanistan border to help the private sector further expand trade and take advantage of business
opportunities in Afghanistan. Pakistan and Afghanistan have discussed opening bank branches on
a reciprocal basis, including a branch of an Afghan bank in Peshawar. Recently, Pakistan and
Afghanistan reached an agreement to revive commercial air traffic after many years; once a week
flights have started by Pakistan International Airlines and the Afghan Ariana Airlines in May
2002; with more frequent weekly flights are expected to commence in the near future. These
moves would help in strengthening financial relationships and would be particularly useful in
facilitating trade and commerce between the two countries, with NWFP benefiting significantly.
Vision and Reform Program
3.     The Provincial Reform Program aims to increase economic growth through the development of a
vibrant private sector and have a lead role assigned to the private sector in industrial development. In this
regard, it has the following goals:
*   Realign the role of the government from production and control to promotion and facilitation of
private sector; withdrawal and disinvestment from public sector production activities.
*   Restructure and reform   government departments and institutions around private sector
development needs.
*   Improve the business environment by initiating a deregulation process so as to reduce the costs of
doing business and encourage businesses to grow and expand.
*   Promote industrial development based on sectors with comparative advantage, such as
architectural stone (marble and granite); gemstones; leather goods; agro-industrial processing;
tourism; and hydel power.
*   Support labor intensive industries at present, industry accounts for only 6% of total employment
in NWFP).
*   Focus on exports.
*   Provide Business Development Services to Small and Medium Enterprises - particularly export-
oriented - in the areas of technical training, technology transfer, information systems,
management capacity, and marketing.
4.     Actions Taken. The provincial government has already made substantial progress in
implementing its reform program for private sector development. Some of the key measures taken are as
follows:
(a) Reducing the role of the public sector
* There were 13 public sector units established by the Sarhad Development Authority (SDA); 12
have already been divested. The remaining unit is in the process of being privatized.
4 The Economic Coordination Council (ECC) recently approved the negative list of imports to Afghanistan; all other items except
these would be allowed for exports. The negative list includes a) cigarettes, cigars and tobacco substitutes; b) dyes and chernicals;
c) yam of all types; d) PVC and PMC materials; e) polyester materialized film; and f) ball bearings. The ECC allowed the export
of hitherto banned items to Afghanistan including fertilizer (urea); high speed diesel, fumace oil and other petroleum products;
and zero-rate exports from the EPZ/Bonds except vegetable ghee and cooking oil.



Annex I
Page 3 of 7
*  Out of the 39 mineral exploration and development industrial units with the Mineral Exploration
and Development Projects Department, around one-fourth have been leased to the private sector
while the rest are in process.
*  The Industries Department has been reorganized to remove duplication and overlap between the
Industries and the Education Department. Also reorganization of the technical training/vocational
training centers has taken place and staff have been put in the surplus pool.
*  Staff have been retrenched in the Stationery and Printing Department in the last two years: in
FYOO-01, staff size was reduced from 380 to 265 employees leading to a saving of Rs.5.2 million.
*  Some retrenchment has also taken place in different autonomous bodies, i.e. SDA and the Small
Industries Development Board (SIDB).
* To reduce establishment costs, expand leasing and improve on mine safety, the government has
merged and integrated various agencies related to mining into a Directorate General of Mines
and Minerals.
*  The Sarhad Hydel Development Organization (SHYDO) has invited expression of interest to
lease out 12 small hydel stations (100-400 KWs) to the private sector. These stations are located
in remote mountainous areas. There is a potential for the private sector to provide off-grid
electricity and develop related private sector activities in these areas.
* The government has begun the process of privatization of the Bank of Khyber with the aim of full
divestiture by FY05.
(b) Expanding Public-Private Partnerships
* The government has established a Private Sector Deregulation and Facilitation Review
Committee comprising government and private sector representatives to review the investment
climate and make recommendations to facilitate business opportunities.
*  Public-private partnerships have also been expanded in specific industrial areas. Private sector
stakeholders have been inducted in many key committees, including the Mineral Mines
Committee, Gemstone Promotion Committee, and the Mineral Investment Facilitation Authority.
*  The Sarhad Development Authority is being converted into an Investment Facilitation Authority
(EFA), with public-private partnership to promote investment. It is envisaged that IFA will
manage the industrial parks, EPZs, one-window investment facilitation, and coordination with the
Federal Board of Investment. Similarly, the SIDB is in the process of being reorganized, with
greater emphasis on public-private partnerships.
*  The Gemology Institute, Leather Training Institute and Leather Garments Training Institute have
been established and management control in all of these institutes will rest with the private sector.
*  A committee on policy formulation and rules amendment has been constituted under Secretary
Industries with private sector representation to suggest amendments in Rules and formulate
private sector friendly policies.
(c) Expanding the role of the private sector
* Mining Concession Rules, 1976 have been amended for the gem sector to allow entry of small-
scale gemstone excavators. The new rules allow an SME to apply for land lease for gemstone
excavation, without the pre-requisite of getting registered with any official entity. This is in sharp
contrast with the past, when only registered firms could apply.



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
* A policy has been fornulated by SHYDO for private sector investment in small (up to 20 MW
capacity) off-grid hydel projects. A total of 27 MW of potential sites have been identified in
different sites on Upper Swat canal. In the first phase four contracts, without any government
guarantees, have been awarded on the Machai and Abazai canals to the private sector to develop
captive power plants which would be developed over two years.
(d) Industrial Deregulation
*  Major mining sector regulatory reforms have taken place. These include: (i) ratification of the
National Mineral Policy (NMP) 1995; (ii) re-constitution of the Mines Committee, with strong
private sector representation which would provide technical input into policy formulation and
help increase transparency in decision making; and (iii) a separate Directorate for Mineral
Development by merging three existing agencies that were established for mineral development.
*  Although deregulation has taken place in a few sectors (mines and minerals, and gemstones), a
comprehensive review and streamlining of the current regulatory burden of 37 labor laws and 23
possible inspection rules that affect private sector activity in NWFP (see the table 2-3 at the end
of this Annex) is needed.
*  While most of the industrial rules, regulations and inspections have been framed by the federal
government, implementation falls in the purview of the province. This means that there is scope
for streamlining through administrative adjustments (such as reducing the number of inspections
or restricting their timing). The Deregulation and Facilitation Committee will examine present
regulations, to simplify procedures, and to coordinate the work on provincial deregulation with
the efforts at the Federal level.
5.     Medium Term Reforms. The government intends to undertake following actions in the medium
term:
* The government plans to initiate in FY03 a detailed province-wide study looking at the sources
and constraints to promoting growth, especially focusing on the SME sector. This study would
help in formulating a more focused economic growth strategy to help promote the private sector
in the province.
* The provincial government plans to divest the remaining public enterprises over the next two
years.
* SDA will sell off the land from its two unsuccessful industrial estates D.I. Khan and Ghazi).
* The government plans to adopt a Policy of Business Facilitation to improve the business
environment.
* The provincial government will continue with its disinvestments program in the mineral sector.
* Undertake a review of the public sector technical and vocational training schools and consider
privatizing them or placing them under public-private partnership.
* Further rationalization of staff in SIDB is planned.



Annex I
Page 5 of 7
Table 1: EXPORT PERFORMANCE OF N.W.F.P.
Sr. No. I        Commodttles          §    1996-97        199748         1998-99     1999-2000         2000-01
I    C_           __on Yom                   5,682                   '12,341,153     27,073,623     29,356,670
2    Tobacco                  _                            11,387      4,680,000      5,398,000      9,950,938
3    Pre4tones                           3,431.818    4,010,932        8,155,211      12,872,207     18,280,000
4    Carpets a Rugs                     22,227,273     38,848,984     45,453,270     95,203,138     130000000
5   lHandicrafts                         1.477,273      2.974.008      4,456.988        294,283      7.000.000
6   [DrN Fnjits                          2,188,838      2,988,155        958,122        738,882        821,000
7   IShoes                                 161,384          9,621          i1,876        83,B85          5,304
8    Cloth                                  31,818         88 888          1,300          2 888            950
9    Spices                                   .            34,074           .              .               928
10   Leaft &LeatherProductr               1,243,182  -   1,939,019      1,109410      11,684,7i1      9,490,000
11   Plants and Seeds                                          98           5,84e        30,500           1,275
12   Fumiture                               79,091        189,783        353,357       2,808,104      1,274,418
13   Medical Herbs                    _    283,838        298 458         1568201      1 502,041      1.798,093
14   Honey                       <      X542,048          699,612       1,558,462      7,729,858     7859121
15  lSocks and gloves                       93,884                        1348e54                        48,375
16   Ena7neerlna aoods                      98,384            858                                          970
17   Match Boxes                          2,993,182     11.088,123      5,059,393      3,908,530      8,429,893
18   Artificlal Jewelry                     36,818           2.794         42,930         35,737         19,839
19   Towels                                                                 7,321
20   Caps                                     6,13a          1,320          1,286
21   Sheep Casing                           12e,591  =       8,920          4,898
22   Lamb Skins                                909
23   Books and Calendars                                     1,120         40,850           400          14,128
24   Tiles and Marbles                       38,409   _     71238          54,088         11,140          1,950
25   Garments                                30,000          8,757         20,882       288              34,330
28   Machines Tools/Machinery                                               1,165         83,250        118,130
27   Food Stuff/Bubble Gums                479,548         328,368      1,784,998
28   Plastic Sheets/Plastic oods               .              ._29,309                     2,105
29   Shopping Bags/Polythyeene bag            2,000                         1,683
30   Rice                                   403,864        293,424         44,140         15 894   .     44825
31   Vegetable                                 .      _._850 386                                        733_946
32   Stainless Steel utinsils                 5,000          2,902                                       24,342
33   Cassettes                                               1,878         78,812          1,974          3,220
34   Ekectical Goods                          4773          15 120
35   Fresh Fruits                                            4!389        352,091      6,305,789        897,254
38   Medical Equipment                                      18 816
37   C arettes                                                .                          130,328        106,903
38   Green Tea                                                                            27 440         14_125
39   Mushroom                                                                          1,311,488
40   Chemicals                                                                                           30,395
41   Conical tails Unit Bomb Bodies                                                                     254,080
_____(Semi Finished)
42   Misc.                       _       _49,82          1 573*805        434,904      14.112,627       550,443
Total US Dollars                    37,487,957     6,118,603      87,299,956    191,319,114    223,165,643
Source: Export Promotion Bureau, Peshawar.



Annex I
Page 6 of 7
Table 2
THIE LIST OF LAWS APPLICABLE TO INDUSTRY
1.     hip Ordinance, 1962.
2.     Boilers Act, 1923.
3.     Consumers Protection act, 1997.
4.     Disabled Persons (Employment and Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 & Rules 1988.
5.     Employees' Old Age Benefits Act, 1976.
6.     Employees Social Security Ordinance, 1965.
7.     Employers' Cost of Living (Relief) Act 1951 & Rules, 1969.
8.     Employment (Records of Services) Act 1951 & Rules 1969.
9.     Employment of Children Act 1991 & Rules 1995.
10.    Factories Act, 1934.
11.   Industrial Relations Ordinance, 1969.
12.   Industrial Statistics Act, 1942.
I3.    Industries Control on Establishment & Enlargement Ordinance, 1963.
14.    Minimum Wages Ordinance 1961 & Rules 1960, 1962.
15.    NWFP Standard Weight & Measures Enforcement Act, 1976.
16.    NWFP Mining Concession Rules, 1976.
17.    Partnership Act, 1932.
18.    Payment of Wages Act, 1936.
19.    Price Control and Prevention of Profiteering and Hoarding Act, 1977.
20.    Provincial Employers Social Security Ordinance 1965 and Rules.
21.    Record of Service Act.
22.    Registration of Stone Crushers Under NWFP Finance Act, 1995.
23.    Societies Registration Act, 1860.
24.    The Coal Mines (Fixation of Rates of Wages) Ordinance, 1960.
25.    The Companies Profits (Workers' Participation) Act, 1988.
26.    The Excise Duty on Minerals (Labor Welfare) Act, 1967.
27.    The Mines Act, 1923.
28.    The Mines Maternity Benefit Act, 1941.
29.    The Pakistan Essential Services (Maintenance) Act, 1952.
30.    The West Pakistan Factories Canteen Rules, 1959.
31.    The Pakistan Industrial & Commercial (Standing Order) Ordinance, 1969.
32.    West Pakistan Maternity Benefit Ordinance 1958 & Rules, 1961.
33.    West Pakistan Minimum Wages for Unskilled Workers Ordinance 1969.
34.    West Pakistan Shops and Commercial Establishments Ordinance & Rules, 1969.
35.    Workers' Children Education Cess Ordinance, 1971.
36.    Workers Welfare Fund Ordinance, 1972.
37.    Workmen Compensation Act, 1923 & Rules 1961.



Annex I
Page 7 of 7
Table 3
LIST OF POSSIBLE INSPECTIONS FACED BY INDUSTRY
UNDER VARIOUS LAWS
Name of the Act                              Frequency of Visits                   Concerned
Department
I   Factories Act 1934                           Once a year                             Labor
2    Employment of Children Act 1994             Once a year or on complaint from union  Labor
or individual
3    Employment Cost of Living Act, 1973         Once a Year or on receipt of complaint  Labor
4    Disabled Person Employment & Rehab.         Once a Year or on receipt of complaint  Labor
Ordinance 1981
5    Standing Orders Ordinance, 1966             Once a year                             Labor
6    West Pakistan Maternity Benefit Rules, 1961  Whenever the rules are applicable      Labor
7   Minimum Wages Ordinance, 1961                On receipt of complaint                 Labor
8   Payment of Wages Act, 1936                   Once a Year or on receipt of complaint  Labor
9    Industrial Relations Ordinance, 1969        Once a Year or on receipt of complaint  Labor
10   Factories (Record of Services) Act, 1934     Once a year                             Labor
11   Certifying Surgeon                           Twice a year                            Labor
12   Health and Hazards Inspector                 Once a year                             Labor
13   Shop and Establishment Inspector             Once a year                             Labor
14   Weight and Measures Inspector                Once a year                             Agriculture and
Bureau of Prices
15   Minimum Wage Inspection Inspector            Once a year                             Labor
16   Apprenticeship under Apprenticeship Ordinance  Once a year                           Labor
1962
17   NWFP Employees' Social Security Institution  Once a year                             Labor
18   Employment and Exchange Inspector            Once a year                             Labor
19   Inspection under the Stamp Act, 1890         Once a year                             Board of Revenue
20    Civil Defense Inspection under Factories Act,  Once a year                          Home Department.
1934
21   Inspection of Boiler under Boiler Act 1975    Once a year (for fitness); & on request  Industries
for new registration
22    Mines Inspector                             Once a year                             Industries
23    The Electricity Act, 1917 & Rules 1937       Once a year                            Industries



Annex J
Page I of 7
STATISTICAL ANNEX
Table 1: Selected Macroeconomic Indicators for Pakistan
Estimate        Projections
1998/99  1999/00  2000/01  2001/02  2002/03  2003/04
Output and Prices (annual changes In percent)
Real GDP at factor cost                        4.2      3.9      2.7      3.3      4.7      5.2
Consumer Prices                                5.7      3.6      4.4      3.0      3.9      4.0
Savings and Investment (percent of GDP)
Gross National Savings                        11.9     13.5     12.8     15.3     15.0     15.0
Govemment                                    -3.0     -3.6     -1.8      0.3      0.8      1.4
Non-Govemment                                15.0     17.2     14.6     15.0     14.2     13.6
Gross Capital Formation                       15.6     15.6     14.7     15.2     16.2     16.8
Government                                    3.7      3.2      2.7      3.4      3.6      3.9
Non-Govemment*                               11.9     12.4     12.0     11.8     12.6     12.9
Public Finances (percent of GOP)
Budgetary Revenue                             16.2     16.5     15.7     16.9     17.3     17.3
Budgetary Expenditure                         22.2     23.0     21.0     22.7     21.5     20.6
Budgetary Balance                             -6.0     -6.5     -5.2     -5.7     -4.2     -3.3
Primary Balance                                1.3      1.1      1.5      1.2      2.1      2.4
Net Public Debt                               91.6     89.4     95.4     92.4     87.9     84.6
Interest Payments                              7.3      7.6      6.8      7.0      6.3      5.7
Extemal Sector ( percent of GDP)
Merchandise Exports                           12.8     13.3     15.0     14.9     15.4     15.8
Merchandise Imports                           16.4     15.6     17.1     16.4     16.9     17.1
Current Account Balance excluding official transfers  -4.6  -3.6  -3.3   -2.4     -2.7     -2.2
Current Account Balance induding official transfers  -3.6  -2.1  -1.9     0.1     -1.2     -1.8
Total Extemal Debt (percent of current receipts)  331.6  310.7  319.8   308.7    291.7    270.1
Total Debt Service (percent of current receipts)  41.2  38.4    32.1     33.5     29.6     26.3
Gross Reserves (US$ million)                1672.0    908.0   1681.0   2427.0   3396.0   3955.0
(In weeks of next year imports)                7.7      3.9      7.5     10.1     13.3     14.8
Financing Gap (US$ million)                      ..       .        ..      ..    233.0    223.0
* Induding Public Enterprises.
Sources: World Bank and IMF staff Estimates.



Annex J
Page 2 of 7
Table 2: NWFP at a Glance
SOCIAL INDICATORS                                             ALL-
NWFP PAKISTAN
Population. 2001/02 (millon)a                              20    140.6
GSDPIGNP per capita. 2001 (US$)                           300      429
Average annual growth, 198148                                                                        Popidation Growth
Population (%)                                             2.8     2.6                                             * *NWFP
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1990) b                                   3
Poverly % of population below poverty line                 44       33 _
Urban populatoin (% of tot populatlon)                     17       32                      2     2     .._
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   62       89
Access to safe water (% of households)                     58       81 e l
Access to toGet facilities (% of households)               g8       64                      o 0    
Uterate populatlon (% of total population)                 37       46                           1991-n     15n41     1581a-
Propordon attending primary school (aged 4 to 9)           70       71
Male                                                     84       80
Female                                                   64       61
STRUCTURE OF THE NWFP PROVINCE ECONOMY c
1980-81  199647 1098-99
(% of GSOP)
Agriculture                                       34       31       32
Industry                                         1i        17       17
Manufacturing                                    6        7        7                             PervsCit income mRs)
Service                                           61       63       61                    80OO
E PaStdatw
(compound annual real growth)                                                              5x0o **     P-
Agriculture                                      n.a.      6.1     12.6                                     _         _
Industry                                         n.a.      8.4     7.5                         E      L     iI.]
Manufactuhing                                  n.a.       8      17.8                   3000
Services                                         n.a.      6.1     3.1                    20-_
Gross Slate Domestic Product (Rs BOllon)         23.8     59.1    63.1                           198081    199g"7    1998-99
GSDP per capita (Rs)                            2147     3478     3604
STATE FINANCE d
1938/90  1991/95  1998199 1909/00  2000/01
(% of GSDP)
Total Revenue & Grants                            9.1     10.3     9.4      9.8      9.7
Provlnce's Own Revenue                          1.3     3.8      3.1      2.9      2.7              RPvenuO Defiit
Federal Transfers ncl. Grants                   7.9     6.6       6.3     8.7      7.1  1Lt.0*-.---:_-
Total Expenditure                                14.1     13.1      9.9    10.3     10.0  1                T        n     et
Revenue Expenditure                            11.0      9.9     8.5      9.3      8.5    f 0 .-_-_------....-..........
Interest payment & debt servicing            2.9      2.8      2.1      2.3      2.0
Capital Expenditue (net)                        3.1      3.1      1.3     0.9      1.5    0.0 -   ----
Revenue Defict (-y Surplus (4)                   -1.9      0.4     0.9      0.3      1.3
Gross Fsca Deficit (-y Surplus()                  4.9     -2.7    -0.5     -0.7     -0.2
Totl Outstanding Debt                            17.2     14.8      9.7     9.3     10.8 I
oUU,Fe. a) r:srn,u,,   uasuu on a popwuwian or 7 r.  , n  rni uu,ua Lw ti ww u e.70b grwrin towa.
0) etI-stan ntegra tod h1ousenhoa urvey 191wuY
C) Lima Lomesttc roduc or nvwi-I- Itr/go,
a) Medium lemm nudpet 1-rmeworr



Annex J
Page 3 of 7
Table 3: Ranking of NWFP Districts by Key Social Indicators
District      Rank     Malnutrition      Water        Sanitation     Primary   1  Literacy    Contraceptives
*/%            %             /%         Enrollment 
F'~~~~~                                                                   %~~
Top 6 Districts
Peshawar           I          31.6           77.3           56.5          67.5          51.9          28.0
Haripir            2          30.3           64.8           59.4          84.8          57.9           24.0
Abbotabad          3           33.0          69.2           57.3          90.3          63.1           23.0
Malakhand          4          30.4           75.6           42.6          73.1          44.8           25.0
Kohat              5          32.7           69.7           47.6          69.1          46.7           14.0
Nowshera           6           35.7     1    71.9           46.4          68.1          41.5           22.0
Middle 12 Districts
Chitral            7          37.4           63.3           67.4          63.6          42.8           29.0
Swabi              8          40.5           70.1           39.2          70.5          38.9           25.0
Mardan             9          33.0           73.6           38.9          60.3          38.9           18.0
Manshera          10          34.7           57.5           38.7          70.0          51.2           16.0
Swat               I 1        49.3           69.3           45.2          51.4          40.5           28.0
D I Khan           12         43.0           79.9           41.2          48.6          33.3           18.0
Bannu              13         37.9           84.4           32.1          46.5          41.3           16.0
Lower Dir         14          35.0           74.2           30.5          59.1          35.4           13.0
Karak              15         30.5           66.3           27.2          53.0          46.5           8.0
Hangu              16         36.0           58.7           43.0          54.0          36.1           12.0
Charsadda          17         35.9           58.1           27.9          56.6          33.7           23.0
Lakki Marwat       18         36.5           61.4           34.2          59.1          33.0           10.0
Bottom 6 Districts
Tank              19          47.6           66.9           33.1          46.9          30.7           7.0
Shanga            20          53.4           44.2           38.9          42.2          28.0           15.0
Batagmnu          21         48.7           53.2           27.0          47.5          27.9           14.0
Bunner            22          39.6           55.3           27.3          43.4          26.1           3.0
Upper Dir         23          46.9           24.8           12.6           37.9         24.5           1.0
Kohistan          24          49.6           11.9           3.7           23.3          14.7           0.0
Source: Preliminary Resultsfrom the Multi Indicator Cluster Survey, 2001.



Annex J
Page 4 of 7
Table 4: NWFP: Distribution of Provincial GDP by Sector "
1980481             1997-98
Sector                     Paldstan   NWFP                NWFP
Agriculture                                       32.2       34.0      25.0      32.0
Major crops                                   16.8      13.5      10.5       7.2
Minor crops                                    5.6       8.2       4.5       5.5
Livestock                                      8.5      11.9       9.1      19.3
Industry                                          223        15.2      26.5      16.7
Mining                                         0.4       0.7       0.4       0.7
Manufacturing                                 14.5       6.4      18.3       7.2
Large-scale                              11.6       4.2       11.9      3.9
Small-scale                               4.2       2.2       6.4       3.3
Construction                                   4.9       5.8       3.7       4.3
Electricity/Gas                                2.5       2.3       4.1       4.5
Services                                           453       50.8      48.2      51.1
Transport                                     10.1      l1.8       10.0     11.5
Wholesale/Retail                              15.8      11.5       15.6     16.1
Finance                                        2.3       2.2       2.2       1.9
Ownership of Dwellings                         4.8       4.7       5.7       2.7
Public Admnin/Defense                          8.2      10.6       4.1       7.8
Social and Community Participation             7.7      10.0        8.7     11.0
1/ At best these are guestimates.
Source: GDP of NWFP 1997/98, Bureau of Statistics, Planning, Environment
and Development Department, Government of NWFP.



Annex J
Page 5 of 7
Table 5: Sectoral Growth rates of NWFP GDP It
1997/98        1998/99        1999/00        2000/01
Agriculture                              0.9           0.7            1.8            0.0
Major crops                          1.0           0.2            1.3           -1.2
Uvestock                            -0.1           0.6            0.5            1.3
Industry                                 0.9           0.2            0.8            0.1
Mining and quarrying                   0.0            0.0            0.1            0.0
Manufacturing                          0.5            0.3            0.1            0.5
Large scale                      0.3            0.1            0.0           0.3
Small scale                      0.2            0.2            0.2            0.2
Construction                           0.1           -0.3            0.3            0.0
Electricity, gas and water             0.4            0.2            0.4           -0.4
0.0            0.0            0.0            0.0
Services                                 1.2           2.0             23            2.8
Transport, storage & commun.           0.8            0.4            0.4            0.7
Commerce                              -0.2            0.3            0.4            0.8
Financial Inst.                       -0.5            0.3            0.1            0.1
Ownership of dwellings                 0.1            0.1            0.1            0.1
Public administration & defense        0.2            0.2            0.4            0.4
Other services                         0.7            0.7            0.7            0.7
NWFP GDP at factor cost                  3.0            3.0            4.9            3.0
Pakistan GDP at factor cost             3.5            3.1            4.8             2.7
1/ At best thse are guestimates.
Source: Government of NWFP(Sectoral shares for 1997/98), IMF, & Economic Survey.



Annex J
Page 6 of 7
Table 6: NWFP: Education Sector, 2000-01
Institution                  Number         Enrollment            Teaching Staff
Primary Schools'             22,375         2,047,371             61,174
Male                          14,934        1,277,363             42,234
Female                        7,441           770,008             18,940
Middle Schools2               2,034           159,799             19,964
Male                           1,299          109,211             12,958
Female                          735            50,588              7,006
High Schools                   1,335          445,765             39,776
Male                           1,063          335,197             31,547
Female                          272           110,568              8,229
Higher Secondary                192           129,141              1,7853
Schools
Male                            146            89,353               1,332
Female                           46            39,788                453
Intermediate and'                97            65,721               2,914
Degree Colleges
Male                             68            46,009               2,221
Female                           29            19,712                693
Technical InstItutions5          57            11,209               1,010
Male                            45             10,269                883
Female                          12               940                  127
1 Data only covers government schools as per Annual School Census 2000-01 conducted by the Directorate
of Primary Education, NWFP. There was an additional enrollment in private schools estimated at 238,182
of which enrollment of girls was 63,354.
2 Data on middle, high and higher secondary schools has been given by the Directorate of Secondary
Schools.
3The number of teaching staff shown here is the staff who teaches only at grades XI-XII. The other staff of
these institutions is included in the staff shown against high schools.
4Data on colleges has been given by the Directorate of Higher Education.
5 Data on technical education has been given by the Directorate of Technical Education, Department of
Industries.



Annex J
Page 7 of 7
Table 7: NWFP: Government Health Facilities, 2002
Type of Institutions                    2002
No.          Beds
Hospitals
Tertiary Hospitals                      7          3580
District Hospitals.                    15          3237
Tehsil Hospitals                       10           377
Other hospitals                       124          6879
(matemity/TB/Mental)
First Level Care FacflIties
Rural Health Centres                   80            886
Basic Health Units                    848            Nil
Dispensaries                          415            112
MCH Centres                            94             16
TOTAL         l1597                         .      1508l7.
Source: Dept. of Health, Govemment of NWFP



MAP SECTION






60  65-                7r   ~   f    TAJIKISTAN 7   .
PAKISTAN                                                '    --        C H I N A
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR
THE NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE                                  (*
| PROJECT AREA
0  SELECTED CITIES
6  NATIONAL CAPITAL
MAIN ROADS                                                .   -'
35e                      RAILROADSApr
RIVERS                                      )O>            /       tnApp-lo-t  35C r
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                          APesJMrM
/  'W,  > ,r.-l  17t SE ILMABAD / JAMMU
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES -'
0     100    200   300 KILOMETERS
(        o     550   100   150   200MILES                    M   a  Khah b -*_G
(,<'.CD'.5Jh'aO5>'.UZUE Xfi  zo oCr9  lt   anSXaI
B_la  c*        N-W shah  }R  <3   r  /RPU        /  - N
i   AFGHANISTAN                                                      asy t _-/   jH  1 r r cisur
|3D-                                          uettS                       so
VJd ntfteelttsonyeroyoanodsnn  A C               hiriyar Khan'!
ISLAMIC RE.      j                  I             v         ,/
O F IRFAN      1     i   S     X|DR                                         ~     X} A/ 
_ 0  i    60                        RH                                \1/A 5                            tO ~ 
J  r                                               --  E                  7,PNITAN  K
Kaa Dokr  Thta sB;_                        ~   [ 
A                  R  A  B  I  A N S E A < Yi satocl11srAN r S t Ng
Ti p 25'  prdcdb           h     a      eig          rl       lTeWrdBnk-                       -7-_ 
The bound3nes, colors, d3nomin3tions 3nd enyolher Inlormntion shown  '  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NWFX.- ........
on Ihis nv3 dc ncl ImpyE on Ihe prl 21 The Wrxd B3n3 Gzup, nny  Molhs of   (   -   -=_ _  ' 2   ,  slonH  A 
_   JadgmemoIh312g31-31a ol3nylrrltory,oanyendorsaemor  IheIdus   \  _A_  , ANISTAN
r~~~~~~~~~aa                                                                               "-ARn21ucbudns  _   ---=- Anbn e  _r
o   60°                    515e                         1                3sz    9  7aq      7s  uo~~~~~~~K-cT  B






IMAGING
Report No.:          24188  PAK
Type:      PAD



