Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3687 PAK
Project Agreement
(NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
Dated July 10, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3687 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 10, 2002, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE, acting by 
its Governor (NWFP).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A)
the Association has received from the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the 
Borrower) a letter dated May 27, 2002 transmitting to the Association a letter from NWFP dated 
May 24, 2002, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to improve and 
strengthen the fiscal framework and public institutions of NWFP (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the commitment of NWFP to the execution of the Program and the 
Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; 
(B)
NWFP has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in the 
Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the Borrower’s macroeconomic framework 
satisfactory to the Association;
(C)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to seventy one million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 71,200,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NWFP agrees to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(D)
the Program will be carried out by NWFP with the Borrower’s assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NWFP the local currency equivalent 
of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit Agreement; 
WHEREAS NWFP, in consideration of the Association entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Program
Section 2.01. NWFP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program and, to 
this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, and shall provide or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,  facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Program. 
Section 2.02. (a) NWFP shall from time to time, at the request of the Association, and 
with the participation of the Borrower, exchange views  with the Association with regard to the 
Page  3
progress of the Program, the actions specified in the Schedule to this Agreement, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Credit.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, NWFP shall furnish to the Association 
and the Borrower for their review and comments a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
NWFP shall promptly inform the Association and the Borrower of any condition, 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Program, the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NWFP of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
(d)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Section, NWFP shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the 
objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action specified 
in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. For the purpose of assisting in the implementation and monitoring of the 
Program, NWFP shall maintain an Economic Reform Unit which shall report  on the progress of 
the Program to the Governor of NWFP or the Chief Executive on a quarterly basis.
Section 2.04. NWFP shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying 
out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, including the impact of 
implementation of the Program on the poor;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and
(c)
review with the Association the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the report and thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
Section 2.05. (a) NWFP shall use the amounts transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement in support of the Program. NWFP 
undertakes that no proceeds of any such amounts shall be used to finance expenditures under a 
contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of NWFP during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
unless and until NWFP shall have taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.
Page  4
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any such amount shall 
have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent with paragraph (a) above, 
NWFP shall, promptly upon request from the Association, refund such amount to the 
Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the 
Credit Account for cancellation. 
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) NWFP shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
Upon the Association’s request, NWFP shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this section 
for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the 
Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association 
shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) NWFP shall, not later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of the 
Rupee amount transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development 
Credit Agreement provide confirmation to the Association showing the date and the Rupee 
amounts received from the Borrower and stating that such amounts have been credited into the 
Consolidated Account of NWFP on that same day.
(b)
Upon the Association’s request, NWFP shall, not later than sixty (60) days after 
the date of such request, provide to the Association an audit report by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association showing the date and the Rupee amounts transferred by the 
Borrower to the Consolidated Account of NWFP pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement.  
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  5
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and NWFP 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance 
with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms 
before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly 
notify NWFP of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail,  telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted 
to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. 
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. telegram, cable, telex 
or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s 
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI) 
For NWFP:
The Additional Chief Secretary
Planning and Development Department
Government of North West Frontier Province
Peshawar, Pakistan
Page  6
Cable Address:
Fascimile:
DEVELOPMENT
091-9210354
Peshawar, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NWFP may be taken or executed by 
the Additional Chief Secretary, Planning and Development Department, NWFP, or such other 
person or persons as NWFP shall designate in writing, and NWFP shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John W. Wall
Country Director, Pakistan
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
By /s/ Mushtaq Ahmed Malik
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the respective Preambles to the Development Credit 
Agreement and the Project Agreement
A.
Strengthening the Accountability and Professionalism of State Institutions
1.
NWFP has strengthened the Provincial Public Service Commission (PPSC) through the 
conferment on PPSC of: (i) financial and administrative autonomy in management of its affairs; 
and (ii) full authority for the recruitment through PPSC of all Public Service Officers.
2.
(a)
NWFP has initiated a program to streamline and right size all 
Page  7
departments/attached departments, including: (i) the closing and/or merging of departments; (ii) 
the declaration of about 6,000 public service positions as redundant at the provincial level; (iii) 
the notification of NWFP’s Surplus Pool Policy; (iv) the notification of NWFP’s Facility 
Specific Contract Staff Policy; and (v) maintained the ban on new recruitment except in 
education and health.
(b)
NWFP has initiated its comprehensive capacity building program.
(c)
NWFP has introduced merit-based promotion policies for senior grades.
3.
NWFP has strengthened its capacity to monitor public service performance through: (i) 
the completion and public dissemination of a multiple indicator cluster survey to benchmark key 
social indicators by district; (ii) the full funding of its educational and health management 
information system starting fiscal year 2003; and (iii) the approval of a third party user and 
facility survey program.
4.
The complete separation of the judiciary from the executive.
5.
Revision of Judicial Service Rules to allow the Chief Justice full autonomy in 
employment in the judiciary.
B.
Education and Health Sector Reforms
1.
NWFP has initiated education reforms to expand access to quality education services 
through: (i) the approval of a school staff rationalization program; (ii) the approval of, and 
allocation of funding for, the provision of missing water and sanitation facilities to girls’ schools; 
(iii) the restructuring of its Frontier Education Foundation and the provision of enhanced funding 
for the Foundation; (iv) the approval of a program for the recruitment of 2000 additional primary 
school teachers during fiscal year 2003 for understaffed schools; (v) the establishment of an 
education sector reform unit; (vi) the strengthening of teacher absenteeism monitoring system; 
and (vii) providing in the approved MTBF of resource allocation consistent with education sector 
reforms.
2.
NWFP has initiated health sector reforms through: (i) the introduction of health 
management institutional reforms, including establishing a management cadre, a program to 
rationalize health facilities and provide management and financial autonomy to tertiary hospitals; 
(ii) the approval of a scheme to increase coverage of extended program for immunization and TB 
coverage; (iii) the establishment of health sector reform unit; (iv) approval of a three year 
program to increase female nursing staff and lady health workers; and (v) providing in the 
approved MBTF of resource allocation consistent with health sector reform.
C.
Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability
1.
NWFP has strengthened the tax base by: (i) the introduction of agriculture income tax 
(AIT); (ii) approval of a study for strengthening the AIT administration system; (iii) the 
rationalizing of a number of taxes; (iv) the revision of the formula for valuation of urban 
immovable property tax; and (v) the increasing of rating areas for property taxes from 18 to 27.
2.
NWFP has adopted prudent fiscal management policies by: (i) reducing wheat subsidy; 
(ii) the establishment of a Road Maintenance Fund; and (iii)  the establishment of General 
Page  8
Provident  and Pension Funds.
3.
NWFP has adopted the MTBF for its 2003-2005 budget planning and formulation.
4.
NWFP has adopted a Financial Management and Accountability Reform Program and 
has initiated: (i) the monthly reconciliation of revenues and expenditures and the making of such 
revenues and expenditures available publicly; (ii) the establishment of a Public Accounts 
Committee and the opening of the Committee proceedings to the public; (iii) the upgrading of the 
positions of District Account Officers in major districts; and (iv) the creation of a Provincial 
Financial Controller position.
5.
NWFP has set up a Provincial Finance Committee and has released Khushal Pakistan 
Program and Social Action Program funds according to the formula-based allocations of Fiscal 
Year 2002.
6.
NWFP has enacted a new Procurement Ordinance to: (i) promote fair and open 
competition; (ii) increase transparency; and (iii) strengthen the code of ethics required in 
procurement.
Page  9
D.
Promoting Growth
NWFP has initiated private sector development reforms through: (i) the establishment of 
a
Deregulation and Facilitation Committee; (ii) the closing down of the following commercial 
autonomous bodies: the Agricultural Development Authority, the Fruit and Vegetable Board, the 
Provincial Frontier Cooperative Bank and the Provincial Urban Development Board;  and (iii) 
the approval of a privatization program for the Bank of Khyber.
