Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8631
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 959-KE/IFAD LOAN 25-KE)
MAY 11, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
Al        Artificial Insemination
CBK       Cooperative Bank of Kenya
IADP      Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Developmant
MLD       Ministry of Livestock Development
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD      Ministry of Cooperative Development
MOWD      Ministry of Water Development
PMED      Project Management and Evaluation Division
RMEA      Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
RWSP      Rural Water Supply Program
SLA       Subsidiary Loan Agreement



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCL4uL use ONLY
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S A.
Ofrfe Of D(WCtft-CAotai
qOmatu" EwuAtNif
May 11, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Kenya Second Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 959-KE/IFAD Loan 25-KE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Kenya Second Integrated Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 959-KE/IFAD Loan 25-KE)" prepared by the
Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 959-KEIIFAD LOAN 25-XE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface   ........... .....................................           i
Basic Data Sheet  ..........................................    ii
Evaluation Summary  ....      .................... ............. ...  v
PROJECT COCPLETION REPORT
I.    Background         ..........................................  1
II.   Project Formulation                               .....        1
III.  ImplementFtion  .....................................          5
IV.   Project Costs, Disbursements and Procurement   ........       11
V.    Agricultural Impact and Rate of Return  .................    12
VI.   Institutional Performance and Development          ...........    13
VII.  Bank Performance  .........6..........    16
Table 1    Perfonmance...      ......................................    19
Appendix 1  ****     ...........................................    21
Major Covenants Not or Only Partially Complied With         .......   23
Appendlx 2 ......................................................   29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 959-KEIIFAD LOAN 25-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Rcport (PCR) for the Second
Integrated Agricultural Development Project in Kenya, for which IDA Credit
959-KE for US$46.0 million and IFAD Loan 25-KE for US$17.0 million were
approved on December 4, 1979. The project was later revised and US$34.0
million of the IDA credit and US$11.5 million of the IFAD loan were
cancelled in September, 1983. The IDA credit was closed on April 30, 1986.
The final disbursement was on January 8, 1987.
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Section of the Bank's
Regional Mission in Eastern Africa. Preparation of this PCR is based on
field visits and, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit and
Loan Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; and i;.ternal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent for comments to the Borrower and the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), cofinancier of the project, on
February 23, 1990. Comments received from IFAD and response from the East
Africa Department of the Bank are attached in Appendix 1 and 2 to the
PCR. No comments were received from the Borrower.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 959-KV9)IFAD LOAN 2L5-KE9
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key Prolect Data                                                     Actual as 2
Appraisal                  of Appraisal
Item                                      Estimate        Actual       Estimate
Total Project Cost                           91.7         21.6 11            242
(US$milllon)
Credit Amount (US$m)
IDA                                    46.0         5.3                122
IFAD (SDR)                             17.0        NA  21
Date Physical Component
Completed                                1985          NA  31
Proportion completed by
that date                                 1002         NA 3/
Economic Rate of
Return (S)                                             0 or negative  4/
Institutional Performance                                                   poor
1I  The project was revised twice; the first revision effective October 1983 reduced the
credit amount to US$12.0 million; the second revision, effective August 1985 reduced
the credit to US$7.5 million.
2/   IFAD cancelled SDR 12.5 million in the course of the first Project revision; US$1.0
million was retained to finance pilot activities in Kwale and Kilifi Districts, and
this project has not yet been closed.
3/  The project was redesigned and drastically reduced.
4/  Because of data limitation, recalculation of the ERR is not possible, but all
indications are that it would be zero or negative.
ProSect Dates
Item                                          Original Plan                 Actual
First mention in files
or timetable                                                              1014/76
Negotiation                                   9124/79-10/l/79               9124/79-10/1/79
Board Approval'                               12/4/79                       12/4/79
Credit Agreement Date                                                       4/23/80
Effectiveness Date                                                          7/2180
Closing Date IDA                              4/30186                       4/30/86



- iii -
Other Prolect Dat
Borrower                             Republic of Kenya
Executing Agency                     Ministry of Agriculture
Fiscal Year of Borrower              July 1 - June 30
Name of Currency:  Kenyan Shilling (Ksh)
Exchange Rate at Appraisal: US$1 - Ksh 8.00
Exchange Rate at Completion: US$1 - Ksh 16.50
Follow on Projects:                   National Extension Project
Animal Health Services Project
Kwale Kilifi District Development
Project (IFAD)
Cumulative Estimated end Actual Disbursements
FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85   FY86
Appraisal Estimate                 1.0   9.0   21.0  33.3  39.0  46.0
Actual (US$m)                      0     1.6    2.9  3.4    4.9  5.3    5.3
Actual as 2 of Appraisal (2)       0     18    14    10    13    12       12
Date of Final Disbursement:  January 8, 1987
Staff Inputs
FY76   FY77 FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85     Y8   Total
Preparation/          16.0   3.0  11.4  23.1   6.3                                          59.8
Identification
Appraisal                               111.0   6.3                                        117.8
Negotiation                                     4.5                                          4.5
Supervision                                     7.2  16.8  50.2  13.1  16.1  19.3   1.9 124.6
Total                16.0   3.0  11.4 134.1  24.3  16.8  50.2  13.1  16.1  19.3   1.9 306.2



flinion D>ata
no. of    Mandays   Specialization (1)                           Type of (4)
Persons   iR FLel4  ReaRenentgd  Statua (2)    Trend (3)    PFoklem
Supervision 1       3/80      2          14        a,d            2              2             M,F
Supervision 2       9/80      4          48        a,d,e,f,       2              2             M,F
Supervision 3       8/81      4          60        N.A.           2              2             M,F,T,P
Supervision 4 (6)  4/82       4          -         a,b$b,4        3              2             M,O,F,T,P (7)
Supervision 5 (6)  9/82       4          -         a,b,b,d        3              2             M,O,r
Supervision 6 (6)  3/83       3          -         a,b,d          3              2             M,O,F
Supervision 7 (6)  9/83       2          -         a,d,           3              2             O,M,F
Supervision 8 (5)  3/84       2          -         a,d            2 (8)          2              O,N,F
Supervision 9 (5)  5/84       1          -         a              2              2              o,m,F
Supervision 10      5/85      2          6         a,c            2              2              09)957
Supervision 11      6/86      -          -         -              2              -
(1)      a          =         Agricultural Economist
b         =          Livestoce Specialist
c         =         Agriculturalist
d         =          Financial Analysis
e         ,          Loan Officer
(2)      1 = Problem free;  2 = Moderate problems;  3 . Major problems
(3)      1 = Improving;  2 3 Stationery; 3 = Deteriorating
(4)      F = Financial, N    Managerial; T = Technical; P a Potential; 0a  Other
(5)      The supervision report is not on files and the summary indicators are taken from the folloving report.
(6)      Specific dates and durations of missions are not given as conventional supervision vas replaced by
short problem oriented missions. The date-listed refers to the final report date.
(7)      Other, refers to the problems related to GOK's budgetary cuts.
(8)      Project rating refers only to the three components maintained under the first revised project; I.e.
coconut development, smallscale irrigation and rural water development.



-v -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 959-KE/IFAD LOAN 25-KE)
EVALUATION-SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The Integrated Agricultural Development Program represented a
major shift if Government of Kenya policy in the early 1970s to assist the
poorer sections of the rural community that had not benefited f om other
government programs, such as smallholder tea and coffee development.
Objectives
2.       The project was to be the second phase of a new long-term program
for the development of smallholder agriculture, and promoted the "whole-
farm" approach to farmer services.   The project components consisted of:
strengthening cooperatives and agricultural services; provision of storage
and transportation facilities for marteting of farm produce; provision of
agricultural inputs to farmers; improvement of rural roads and domestic
water supply facilities; rehabilitation of five small-scale irrigation
schemes; and soil conservation works. Project costs were estimated at US$
91.7 million. A newly created Project Management and Evaluation Division
(PMED) in the Ministry of Agriculture was to manage the Project in close
coordination with the Ministry of Cooperative Development.
Imnle2menation ExDerience
3.       Project implementation was adversely affected by budgetary
corstraints and staff shortages.   The animal production and extension
activities were not implemented. The credit program was curtailed by late
delivery of credit and inputs and low repayment.   Extension and research
activities were hampered by inappropriate technical packages, low produce
prices and inadequate marketing atrangements. The project was reformulated
in 1982 when the government and the Bank agreed to disaggregate the project
into its major component parts:   agricultural extension, livestock and
credit. The bulk of the Credit was cancelled in 1983.
Results and Sustainability
4.       The project had no sustained impact on farmers and increased
production was minimal.   Project ERR is assumed to be zero or negative.
The project was formulated at a time when the Bank was supporting
integrated rural development as the key to agricultural production growth.
The experience of such projects has not been good and Bank operations have
since veered away from this concept.  In Kenya, the current strategy for



vi -
agricultural growth is to strengthen individual agricultural services,
namely input supply, research, extension and marketing in a vertical way.
The National Extension Project (Cr. 1387-KE). for instance, established a
national extension service based on the pilot T&V extension program
financed under IADP II.  The Rural Services Design Project (Cr. 1974-KS)
followed the same approach:   it provides seed resources to test out the
institutional and technical framework for strengthening individual
services, such as smallholder lending and cooperative management.   The
results of these pilot activities can lead to a pipeline of strategic
investment projects for donor financing in the 1990s.
5.       The Bank has also modified its approach towards  regional
development projects, which now focus on a few key sources of agricultural
growth within a particular administrative boundary and relying on the
regular administration. Based on the experience of the Kwale and Kilifi
Pilot Project funded from the IFAD contribution to IADP II, IFAD recently
approved a full-scale project in the two districts. Most of the technical
packages supported had been tested under the pilot.   The institutional
setup follows the Government's District Focus Strategy established in 1983
which provides a mechanism for devolving project planning and
implementation responsibilities to the district governments.   One of the
lessons learned from IADP II is that district-based projects should be
implemented by local governments within their existing structure and not by
central government agencies.
6.       A third element in the present Bank strategy is to assist in
establishing a macroeconomic enviroament conducive to growth.   The Bank
financed an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Operation (Cr. 1717-KE) and an
Agricultural Sector Management Project (Cr. 1718-KE) to ensure technical
assistance and logistics for the implementation of reform programs.
Government policies regarding producer prices and input supr-.ies and an
improved extension service were some of the reasons for satisfactory
agricultural growth in 1986 and 1987.
Findings and Lessons
7.   -  The project design underestimated the weakness of many of the
implementing agencies, especially the cooperative unions and
societies;
-  Government was in most cases reluctant to accept technical
assistance provided for under the project.   This tended to
undermine the project's provisions for strengthening
cooperatives and research and extension;
-   Project organization and management arrangements were
unworkable, particularly since the coordinating ministry had
no effective control over other agencies;



- vii -
The project was seriously constrained by heavy budget cuts.
Annual development budget allocations never exceeded 25 - 30%
of appraisal estimates. Rural infrastructure components were
hardest hit and the rural access road componenL wus virtually
eliminated;
Institutional, policy and budgetary issues did not receive
sufficient attention during appraisal; and
The project's failure convinced both Government and the Bank
that the integrated development approach should be
simplified.   The decision to disaggregate the project into
its main components led to the preparation of a series of
national projects, of which National Extension, Agricultural
Research and Animal Health are now being implemented.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 959-KEIIFAD LOAN 25-1(E_)
I. BACKGROUND
1.01 in the period 1963 - 1973, Kenya's agricultural sector grew by an
average 4.6% annually. Most of this growth was attributable to large
scale farming together with smallholders growing export cash crops in the
high potential agricultural areas. Early in the 1970's Government became
increasingly -acerned with the needs of less privileged smallholders,
who had, until then, been largely excluded from the development process.
Government's policy for addressing this issue was initiated in the Third
Development Plan (1974 - 1978) and was aimed at widening the basis of
agricultural production and the social impact of development by
increasing output in the small farm sector.
1.02   Preparation of an Integrated AgriculturaL Development Program was
started in 1972 and this became the Govermnent's principal vehicJe for
supporting small f£rn- development. the program was to embody
decentralised planning and control and a farm syatems approach. The
Project - the Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP
II) was the second phase of Bank assistance to the Program and was the
eighteenth agricultural project in Kenya supported by the Bank. For IADP
II the Bank provided a Credit (959-RE) of US$ 46.0 million to cover 50%
of the estimated total project costs of uSt 91.7 million. The
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) provided a further
US$17.0 million.  The Credit was signed in April 1980 and became
effective in July 1980.
II.  EgX FORMATION
Identification and Pregaratlon
2.01   The Project was identified in 1976 as the second phase of the
Government's Integrated Agricultural Development Program. Project
preparation was undertaken by the Miuistry of Agriculture (MOA), with
assistance from the Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA). As



- 2 -
originally envisaged,  ADP II was essentially the same as IADP I except
it involved extension of the project to areas in Rift Valley and Coast
Provinces which were not included in Phase I. It was the Government's
intention to move rapidly into a second phase project. Government
prepared a draft project brief In September, 1976 and proposed that
preparation be completed by June, 1977 to be followed by appraisal in
September 1977. (IADP I, after some delay, became effective in March,
1977). However, the schedule for preparation proved to be optimistic.
Many of the responsible staff in MOA became involved at the same time in
the preparation of the Fourth Five Year Development Plan and with several
other projects which were being prepared simultaneously. Preparation of
IADP II was finally completed in March, 1978. The proposed project
included the same package of inputs and services for small farmers as
that provided under IADP I with additional components for water
development, soil conservation, rural access roads and adaptive research.
A zra ,alI
2.02   Slow prog:ess in project preparation meant that appraisal, which
had originally been scheduled for September, 1977, was not !n fact
undertaken until November, 1978. In the meantime problems were emerging
in the implementation of IADP I and Bank staff became concerned over the
timing of the second phase. Arguments within the Bank for postponement
of Phase II were considered but rejected on grounds that the problems of
IADP I were sufficiently understood and could be adequately dealt with in
the course of appraisal. Thp more important issues that had been
identified before appraisal were:
-   pronounced veaknesses in the cooperative system through which
smailholder credit was channelled with low rates of both
credit recovery and farmer reparticipation;
-   bottlenecks in marketing and low producer prices;
-   poorly focussed research and weak links with extension; and



-3-
- ineffective institutional arrangements, particularly with
* regard to interagency coordination.
2.03   The appraisal mission, with Government's concurrence, reduced the
size of the credit component and made provisions to strengthen the
cooperative system, agr'cultural research, and project management.
Additional crop storage was to be provided, and agreement was reached
with Government for annual consultations with the Bank concerning the
overall structure and level of agricultural prices. The mission also
supported Government's proposals to include infrastructural components
(water development, rural roads and small scale irrigation).
2.04   Prolect Descrintion.  The project was to be the second phase of
the Government's long-term program to develop smallholder agriculture.
Over abcut 5 1/2 years, Government would extend IADP to small farm areas
in eleven districts of Rift Valley and Coast Provinces, as well as to
parts of four districts in Western, Eastern, Central and Nyanza
Provinces.  IADP II was designed to strengthen the Program's
institutional set-up, refine its technical features and improve physical
infrastructure in the project area. Approximately 40,000 smallholders
were expected to benefit directly from the project. Specifically the
project provided for:
(a)   Development of livestock health, breeding and husbandry
services;
(b)   Provision and distribution of incremental crup production
inputs;
(c)   Provision of storage and transportation facilities and staff
for marketing of farm produce;
(d)   Development, upgrading, and maintenance of rural access
roads;
(e)   Improvement of domestic water supply in critical areas;
(f)   Soil conservation and reafforestation measures;



-4-
(g)   Rehabilitation of five small-scale irrigation schemes in the
Tana River basin;
(h)   Expansion and strengthening of the cooperative movement;
(i)   Development of credit services and facilities for
smalIholders;
(j)   Improvement of extenision services, and of training for
extension staff and farmers;
(k)   Expansion of adaptive research and development of tree crop
nurseries;
(1)   Strengthening of IADP management, monitoring and evaluation.
A newly created Project Management and Evaluation Division (PMED) in MOA
vould aanage the Project in close coordination with the Ministry#of
Cooperative Development (MOCD). Management decentralisation was to be
achieved by making district level staff responsible for project planning
and implementation.
2.05 The Project was estimated to cost US$ 91.7 million to be financed
as follows:
IDA Credit                 US$ 46.0 million
IFAD Loan                  US$ 17.0 million
GOK Contribution           US$ 16.4 million
Farmers' Contribution      US$  5.0 million
The project was approved by the Executive Directors on December 4, 1979,
a little over two years after the start of formal project preparation.



III.  IPSETT0
Effectiveness and Start-Up
3.01    The credit became effective in July 1980.  There were no specific
conditions of ef'eetiveness other than the usual legal steps relating to
both the credit and the IFAD Loan. From the outset Government had been
anxious to betin implementation of the second phase as early as
possible. A request from Government for the reallocation of IADP I funds
to finance start-up activities of IADP II in 1978/79 was turned down by
the Bank. However, the Bank did agree to retroactive financing for this
purpose with effect from December 1978.
3.02    The Bank mounted a mission to review project start-up in March
1980. Start-up activities were to be included in both the 1978/79 and
1979/80 work plans. Progress was slow with activities during this period
being largely confined to the training of field staff and farmers. The
crop production/credit component suffered from the same problemseof late
release of funds and poor credit recovery as had been experienced with
IADP I. Work on infrastructure was delayed, primarily because the
Ministry of Cooperative Development had not included the necessary
development expenditures in its 1979/80 estimates. Staff appointments
were delayed because the Director of Personnel Management would not agree
to. create new posts under the project before the Credit was signed in
April 1980. No action had been taken at this stage on the recruitment of
technical assistance.
Imulementation through 1982/83
3.03    Livestock Develonment.  Livestock activities were the largest
component in IADP 11, comprising 23% of project costs. The design of the
component was similar to that of IADP I and included three major
programs: tick-borne disease control, mainly through dipping; artificial
insemination; and animal production including extension. Of the three,
the dipping program received the greatest emphasis. However, because of
poor project monitoring, it is not known how many dips were constructed



-6-
or rehabilitated, or how many cattle were dipped each year under the IADP
Program. An agreed dipping fee of KSh8 0.30 was seldom collected and was
in any case considerably below actual cost. A legal covenant requiring
that fees for dipping would be reviewed annually and would be sufficient
to cover actual operating costs was not complied with.
3.04    Artificial Insemination Services (AI) which were already being
supported under IADP I were to be expanded to include areas in Rift
Valley and Coast Provinces and additional areas in Western Kenya. In
1980, about 165,000 or about 302 of national inseminations were done
under IADP I and II contributing to an estimated 4% per annum expansion
of the national grade dairy herd. The program continued to expand in
1981/82 but progress reports lack quantitative data and do not
distinguish between the first and second phase projects. An AI fee of
only KShs 1.0 was agreed at appraisal in order to encourage
participation. This constituted a heavy subsidy in favour of the
farmer. Actual costs were estimated at anywhere between KShs 20 and
KShs 250 depending on the demand in a given area. Under IADP II,.which
covered more marginal areas than IADP I, costs were at the upper end of
the range. Lack of operating funds resulted in a steady decline in the
Government's Al service.
3.0S    The animal production and extension activities never got off the
ground. Budgetary constraints, which affected all project components,
were compounded by serious staff shortages particularly livestock
extension staff most of whom remained with W A following the formation of
a separate Ministry of Livestock Development (MLD), which split from MOA
in November, 19791/.
3.06    Smallholder Credit.  Utnder the project, farmers received credit
for the purchase of inputs (seed, fertiliser and agrochemicals). Input
requirements were based on various technical packages tailored for
different agro-ecological zones. Potential loanees were selected and
trained by MOA extension staff before receiving cash and physical
inputs.  The methodology was the same as that employed under IADP I.
I/      The two ministries were subsequently merged
again in 1983, and separated in 1986.



-7-
The bulk of the project's credit funds were onlent to cooperative unions
and societies by the Cooperative Bank of Kenya (CBK). The credit program
was in difficulties from the outset. The problems of late delivery of
credit and inputs, low repayment, and low reparticipation, which had been
much in evidence in IADP I, continued into the second phase. The number
of loanees participating in the credit program had ijeen declining through
the late 1970's and by 1981 the combined number of rADP I and II was
about 5,000, compared with appraisal estimates of 70,000 for IADP I and
5,000 for IADP II. The drop out rate after only one year's participation
continued at about 70% and credit recovery rates remained at about 25%.
Measures aimed at strengthening MOCD, CBK and the cooperatives were, for
the most part, not implemented. Cooperative and Credit management is
discussed further in Chapter VI.
3.07    Extension and Research.  The project supported MOA's extension
service through the provision of transportation and other equipment and
by covering part of recurrent operating costs. In addition, funds were
provided for the construction of staff housing and other facilities but
these were not built because of budget cuts. Achievements were confined
to the selection and training of those farmers who received credit and
inputs. Early in 1982 both MOA and Bank Staff recognised that extension
efforts under IADP were having little impact. Inappropriate technical
packates, low producer prices ana inadequate marketing arrangements were
compounded by poor management of junior field staff and low staff
morale. In March, 1982, amendments were made introducing a pilot T&V
extension system in the two districts of Kericho and Nandi.
3.08    The project included funds for strengthening applied research
with particular emphasis on the two main anchor crops of cotton and
svnflower. Two plant breeders and two agronomists were to be recruited
internationally. Only one cotton breeder was recruited. Farming systems
research was emphasised as a necessary part of the "whole farm" approach
proposed in the project. However, this was not supported by the research
division in MOA, which following a reorganisation in 1981, advocated
single commodity research aimed at maximising yields under optimal
conditions.  While there was widespread acceptance in MOA that many
technical packages had become unviable, in part due to declining output,



prices combined with increasing input prices, no serious attempt was made
to include economic work as part of the research effort. Two senior
agro-economist positions provided under the project were not filled.
3.09    Infrastructure:  Implementation of rural access roads, rural
water supplies and small scale irrigation were severely constrained by
budgetary cuts. Government provided a token KE 10 for rural access roads
in the budgets for 1980/81 and 1981/82 thereby effectively deleting the
component. By 1983/84 the rural water supply and small scale irrigation
components had scarcely progressed beyond the planning stage.
Revisions of the Pro ect
3.10    From the earliest stages of implementation, Bank staff involved
with supervision were convinced that the project vas in serious
difficulties and were in favor of a drastic redesigning of the project.
Discussions were held with Government throughout 1981 but failed to reach
agreement on how to proceed. MOA and MOCD maintained strong support for
the integrated development approach whereas the Bank was in favour of
disaggregation into separate projects. The stalemate was finally broken,
largely as a result of the successful launching of the T&V extension
pilot in March 1982, which led rapidly to preparation of a five year
national extension project. In September 1982, Government and the Bank
formally agreed to disaggregate IADP II into it., major component parts:
agricultural extension, livestock, and credit. The bulk of the IDA
Credit (US$ 34 million out of a total US$ 46 million) was cancelled a
year later in September, 1983. IFAD, who cofinanced the project,
followed suit cancelling US$11.5 million from their loan of
US$17 million. At the request of Government, scaling down of the project
was to be undertaken gradually. IDA and IFAD funding for livestock,
crop, marketing and cooperative components, and provision to clear the
disbursement backlog was to cease in June 1984 (this was subsequently
extended to March 1985). US$12 million of the IDA Credit was retained to
cover existing commitments and to finance the continuation of three small
components: Small Scale Irrigation, Rural Water Supplies and Coconut
Development.



-9-
3.11    In August, 1985 a second amendment Was approved which provided
US$ 0.5 million to finance a pilot operation for livestock development.
At the same time a further US$ 4.5 million was cancelled after the
failure of government to claim disbursement for a backlog of eligible
expenditures.
Later Stages of Imolementatiou
Small Scale Ilritation
3.12    This component provided for the rehabilitation of five existing
amall scale irrigation schemes in the Tana River District with a total
area of about 300 ha. Technical assistance was provided under Dutch
bilateral aid. Initial progress in implementation was slow with much
time taken up in providing infrastructure (workshops, housing aud
offices) for the management team. Furthermore, the time required to
select farmers and secure their participation in the project was
underestimated. Ultimately, only three schemes, totalling some 110 ha,
or about 37 per cent of the appraisal target were developed.
3.13    The component was designed for food security and involved pump
Irrigation for paddy cultivation. Paddy production was low, averaging 2
tons/ha which was not much better than production from flood irrigated
paddy in adjacent areas where in good years yields averaged 1.6 tons/ha.
The capital cost of rehabilitation was estimated at about Us$5,500 per
ha. Operational costs were also high, and efforts were made to reduce
costs by developing a gravity flow system which c;<   substitute for
pumping when river levels were sufficiently high. As a means of
providing food security, however, the component continued to be far too
expensive.
Coconut Rehabilitation
3.14    The project provided for the establishment of a coconut
rehabilitation unit in the Coast Province to implement a rhinoceros
beetle eradication program, improve husbandry techniques and
establish/rehabilitate five coconut nurseries to provide improved



- 10 -
planting materials to farmers. Implementation of these measures was
expected to double yields from 3,000 to 6,000 nuts per ha over a period
of 8 to 10 years. Little progress was made and the impact on coconut
development was negligible. Eradication of the rhinoceros beetle
required the cleaning of all plantation areas and destruction of infected
material. However, farmers were reluctant to cut down and burn infected
trees and government was unable to provide adequate extension support due
to lack of funds. For similar reasons the control over nut selection to
improve planting material was inadequate. A program for breeding and
selection of high yielding varieties was not implemented and Bank
supervision mission recommendations to import improved varieties were not
taken up. Government run nurseries operated at a loss. Nuts were
purchased from farmers at a price of Shs 1/50 each, grown into seedlings
and sold back to farmers at the same price, although the actual cost of
producing seedlings was about five times higher.
Rural Water SU21nlies
3.15    The project provided for the construction of small-scale rural
water supply facilities to supplement existing schemes or ones being
planned under the ongoing Rural Water Supply Program (RIWSP).
Imlementation was the responsibility of the Ministry of Water
Development (MOWD) who were also responsible for RWSP. The project was
severely constrained by budgit cuts and MOWD, who had enormous
difficulties in implementing RIWSP, paid scant attention to this component
of IADP II. Five small dams were to be built in Kwale, Kilifi and
Taita-Taveta district. Progress in site selection, completion of designs
and tendering procedures was painfully slow. Only two dams, one in [wale
and one in Taita-Taveta were completed. The dam in [wale subsequently
suffered severe damage which was attributed to the unpredictable nature
of soils in the area and faulty design.
Dairr Pilot fLivestock Develobment)
3.16    The main component of the pilot was an overdraft facility to the
Murang'a Farmers Union to test the effect on milk production of timely
payments to milk producers. Other subcomponents were included to test



- 11 -
the feasibility of delivering Al and veterinary services from a permanent
base at cattle dip sites and to support extension activities for animal
production. The overdraft facility failed to materialise as a result of
a combination of factors including: (i) the reluctance of Murang'a
Farmers Union to charge comercial interest rates to farmers; (ii) an
improvement in the payment record of the Kenya Cooperative Creameries;
and
(iil) failure to complete a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Goverment and CBK. The other subeomponents fared equally badly. The
pilot's management set up was overly complex and lacked the flexibility
necessary to manage activities which were experimental by nature.
IV.  PROJ=CT COSTS. DISBURSEMEUTS AiD PROCUREMERq
4.01    Project costs were estimated at appraisal at KShs 688.4 million
(US$ 91.7 million), over a five-year development period. Unfortnmately,
proper project accounts were not kept and actual project expenditures can
only be estimated. In the absence of reliable data, funds budgeted in
Government's Annual Development Estimates are taken as an approximation
of actual expenditures. Details are given in Table 1. Hovever, since
umderspending of budgeted funds was quite common, the assumed expenditure
figures are probably overestimated.
4.02    Goverment budgeted KShs 257.4 million during the Project period,
or 37% of appraisal project costs. Following the pattern established in
IADP I, the two largest items of expenditure were livestock (principally
tick control) and Credit.
4.03    The Bank disbursed a total of US$ 5.3 million from the US$ 46
million IDA Credit and US$ 40.7 million were cancelled. The Bank thus
financed 25% of estimated project expenditurer compared to 55% of total
project costs assumed at.appraisal. About US$ 5 million of IDA funds
which could have been claimed by Government were never disbursed.
4.04    There were several reasons for the poor disbursement
performance. First, Government provided insufficient funds in their
development budget each year to implement the project as appraised.
Second, poor implementation performance meant that some funds provided



- 12 -
were not spent. And third, a considerable proportion of the funds that
were spent were never claimed by Government because of the poor status of
accounts and lack of coordination between implementing Ministries and
agencies. A schedule of cumulative disbursements is attached as
Appendix 3.
4.05    Procurement procedures for project goods and services were
generally satisfactory.
V. AGRXCULTURAL IMPACT ANP RATE OF RETURN
Livestock
5.01    The project was expected to increase the national production of
milk and beef by almo3t 30S over 15 years. Additional, mcre modest
benefits were expected from improvements in small stock production.
Given the severe budget cuts, only dipping and AI activities were
implemented on any significant scale. No quantitative data is avaSlable
on the impact of these activities, but inadequate cost recovery and
supervision of operations did result in a deterioration of both these
services. Bank staff supervising the livestock component noted that
national figures indicated a decline in the formal markerting of livestock
products as a result of low official price levels. No information is
available on informal marketing.
crons
5.02    Under the project, the typical farmer was expected to double crop
yields in 4 years. About 38,000 farmers were scheduled to become
beneficiaries of the input supply and credit provisions coupled with
Improved research and extension support. Cropping patterns varied in
different parts of the project area and included a wide range of crops.
No estimates of incremental production are possible because of the
paucity of data, but little if any sustained increases in production car.
be assumed.



- 13 -
Most teehnical packages met with little enthusiasm from farmers.
The pattern of adoption was similar to that experienced under IADP I
where farmers were initially attracted by the availability of tredit but
subsequently abandoned recommended practices and failed to repay loans or
reparticipate. Rehabilitation of small scale irrigation schemes on the
Tana resulted in paddy yields increasing from 1 ton to 2 tons/ha but the
area developed was insignificant and the costs far outweighed the
benefits. The small coconut development component expanded the area
planted to coconuts by about 4,000 ha. However, attempts to control
rhinocerus beetle and introduce improved planting material failed, and no
yield increases per unit of land were achieved.
Economic Rate of Return
5.03    The almost total lack of reliable data does not enable
recalculation of the economic rate of return. All indications are
however that the rate of return would be zero or negative.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCZ AID DElOPMEUT
Overall Management
6.01    The project required the participation of several Government
ministries, parastatals, agencies, marketing boards, banks and a large
number of independent cooperative unions and societies. MOA, as lead
agency had overall responsibility for project implementation through its
Project Management and Evaluatiou Division (PEED). The creation of PEED
as on& of four divisions under a reorganiaed MOA was seen at appraisal as
an important step in institutional strengthening for IADP. In the event,
PMED was grossly overloaded and was unable to establish financial control
or monitor and evaluate the project effectively. Furthermore, the Chief
of PMED was not able to establish his leadership of IADP since he had no
authority to direct other ministries and agencies. The project's
coordinating committee was largely ineffective since it met infrequently
and was usually attended by relatively junior staff from the various
implementing agencies.



- 14 -
6.02    The cooperatives were identified at appraisal as the weak link in
IADP institutional arrangements. Accordingly, provisions were made to
strengthen the cooperative movement. These Included reorganisal-on of
MOCD, and the recruitment of additional staff and trainin  for both MOCD
and cooperative unions and societies. Few of these steps were taken.
The reorganisation and strengthening of NOCD, which was a major covenant
In the credit agreement, was never Implemented. Initial steps taken by
MOCD, soon floundered because of government's reluctance to deal vith one
discrete ministry rather than as part of an overall review of the Civil
Service. Some additional staff were recruited at MOCD headquarters and
at some unions and societies. Training activities were minimal and
management consultants who were to assist In the training of union
managers, vere never recruited. By March 1985, when most project
accivities were woud up, there was no discernable improvement in the
cooperative movement.
.CBn and Credit Develonmen=
6.03    About 95  of seasonal credit volume to support project activities
was to be channelled through CB2 and the cooperative system. Twelve new
field offices were to be opened to ensure full coverage of the project
area. This target was only partially achieved. Between 1980 and 1983,
CBt opened four new branches and two field offices. While these
additional facilities brought about some improvement il CBK's service to
cooperatives, the Bank's activities remained seriously constrained by its
lack of autonomy. Many of the cooperative unions and societies in the
proJect area were both financially and managerially weak and with loan
recovery rates averaging only 25X, it is not surprising that CBK was
reluctant to lend indiscriminately unless backed by a government
guarantee. Neither Government nor World Bank were in favour of a
guarantee. MOCD, on the other hand, under whose jurisdiction CBK
operates, did favour a guarantee since it was anxious to lend to all
unions and societies. Because of these disagreements over the lending
strategy, the subsidiary loan agreement (SLA), between government and CBK



- 1S -
vas not signed. Similarly, CBR and MOCD failed to cooperate in annual
reviews of the eligibility of unions and societies because of MOCD's
fears that this would severely limit the number eligible for credit.
geseAgeh and Extnsiow
6.04    Little progress was made in strengthening research.  Government
wan unwilling to employ.the Internationally recruited staff provided for
under the project and did nob provide adequate research staff of its
own. Failure to assign economists to work vith agronomists waa a major
constraint to the development of farming systems research as advocated by
the project's "whole farm" approach. Consequently, the research input
needed to adjust recoamendations on farm inputs in the light of changing
input/output prices was not available.
6.05    Initial steps taken to strengthen extension services were not
successful. Field extension staff were poorly managed and this was not
adequately addressed under the project. Also extension messages 6ased on
increased use of purchased inputs were seldom appropriate particularly
for small farmers in sedium/low potential areas. These shortcomings were
recognised by both Government and the Bank and in 1982 a pilot Training
and Visit (T&V) extension project was established in two districts. The
success of this pilot led to the National Extension Project.
Accounts and Audits
6.06    Each implementing department and agency was required to maintain
separate audited accounts which were to be consolidated by PMED and
submitted annually to IDA. lone were submitted. It is apparent that
accounting and auditing capabilities were not fully analysed at
appraisal. The PMED in MOA, faced with the problems of coordinating
submissions, had no authority over other ministries and agencies.
Accounting in the many cooperative unions and societies was particularly
weak, with audited reports often up to 4 years in arrears.



- 16 -
Annuaul Work Plans
6.07    The preparation of annual work plans was seen as an important
management tool, which would provide the flexibility needed to modify the
project during the course of implementation. In practise, work plans
became increasingly irrelevant because of the severe budget cuts imposed
by Government. While plans included quantitative targets and financial
requirements, they dld not take account of policy, budgeting and
institutional issues which proved to be major bottlenecks in project
implementation. rurthermore, workplana were invariably submitted too
late for IDA comments to be taken into consideration when Government's
Developomnt estimates were finalised.
VII.  BARR ERFR      Z
7.01    Project appraisal was undertaken at a time when Bank policy laid
emphasis on projects designed to reach the rural poor. The IADP program
was vieved as betng consistent with this policy and Government waa
anxious to move rapidly into a second phase project. With hindsight, the
Bank's decision to proceed with appraisal at this time was ill-advised.
The appraisal mission acknowledged that IADP I had problems but believed
they were being overcome, and that a second phase would assist further in
resolving these problems. While the Bank had accurately identified the
main issues (see para 2.02), provisions made at appraisal to resolve them
were insufficient. The Government's implementation capacity was
misjudged and institutional and policy issues were inadequately dealt
with.
7.02    Bank staff supervising the project became convinced during the
first year of implementation that the project had inherited all of the
problems of IADP I. Bank supervision missions made strenuous efforts to
reverse this trend. However, the perceptions of project progress held by
Bank staff and the staff in MOA and MOCD were quite at odds. Bank staff
felt the project was too complex and was not making any impact whereas
MOA and MOCD argued the project was successful. Bank staff favoured
disaggregation, MOA and MOCD were strongly committed to the integrated
approach. Discussions continued with government throughout 1981/82 and



-17 -
during this period Bank supervision efforts were instrumental in
establishing the extension T&V piiot. This successful intervention
helped swing the balance in favour of Bank staff's argument for
disaggregation of the project. Following the agreement with government
in September 1982 to wind up IADP, formal supervision of IADP was
minimised and staff concentrated on assisting with identification and
preparation work associated with new projects planned to follow
disaggregation of IADP.
Vill. COsCLWSIONS
8.01    The project was the second phase of a proposed four phase program
for supporting small farm development. The project as designed was
overly complex, requiring a level of coordination between implementing
agencies which was beyond Goernment's implementation capacity. At the
same time Government was reluctant to accept techlical assistance. The
project failed to achieve appraisal targets in terms of either
institutional strengthening or production increases. Sweeping b6dgetary
cuts, which affected all agricultural.programs in Kenya at the time were
an additional handicap. Infrastructure components were particularly hard
hit, with rural access roads virtually eliminated, and rural water
supplies reduced substantially.
8.02    When the project was under preparation, Government, in response
to strong, political pressure, was committed to rapid expansion of IADP
to reach the maximum number of rural poor in the shortest time possible.
Bank policy at this time also emphasized targeting projects directly to
the rural poor. It seems likely that Bank support for rapid expansion of
IADP created pressures within the Bank to expedite the project at the
expense of time necessary to acquire a fuller appreciation of
institutional and policy issues. Institutional weakness in the
implementing agencies was under-estimated at appraisal and institutional
and policy issues related to the provision of credit and inputs,
agricultural supporting services and pricing and marketing were not
adequately dealt with. With hindsight, given the problems which IADP I
faced at the time of appraisal of the second stage, the Bank's approval
to proceed with a much larger project was unwise.



- 18 -
8.03    Almost from the outset, Bank supervising staff recognised that as
designed, the project was not implementable. It took two years from 1981
to 1983 for the Bank to convince Government of this, and to abandon the
Integrated development approach. The mainly negative lessons learnt from
the failure of IADP do, however, have a positive side. The initial
success of the T&V extension pilot established under the project in 1982,
was rapidly folloved by preparation of a National Extension Project which
is now under implementation. Similarly, National Agricultural Research
and Animal Health Projects have been initiated and a National Credit
project is planned. The agreement In 1982 between the Government and the
Bank to disaggregate the main components of IADP II into separate,
relatively simple projects with national, rather than area specific
coverage was a turning point In the Bank's lending strategy for
agriculture.



_ 19 -
Table I
Funds BudReted for IADP - II
Funds        Estimated
Appraisal    Approved     Actual as %
Is1mate      by Govt.     of Apolaigal
-KSh million
A£rloultsre
Eztension and Crop
Productionl1  -                     67.2         27.4         40.8
Soil and Water Conservation           64.9          7.4         11.4
Coconut Development                    7.6          6.1         80.2
Research                              37.0          6.7         18.1
Animal Production                     58.0         14.9         25.7
Animal Production Research             5.0          1.1         22.0
Artificial Insemination               32.6          9.1         27.9
Tick Control                          68.5         56.7         82.8
CoolDeratlyes
Grants to Cooperatives
Loans to Cooperatives                 43.1         23.7         55.0
Construction of Union Stores
Professional Administrative
Services                     96.7          13.5         14.0
Grants to CBK                14.5           8.8         59.0
Loans to Farmers             72.3          32.0         44.3
NCPB                                  19.1         13.4         70.1
CLSlB                                 22.9          5.8         25.3
Rural Access Roads                    47.4          1.0          2.1
Small Scale Irrigation                11.6         13.5        116.4
Water Development                     19.6         16.3         83.2
Total                       688.4         257.4         37.4
(US $O000)
Total2/                      91.7          21.6         23.6
Notes:  (1)  This includes Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
(2) Annual average rates of exchange were made to convert Kenya
shilling to US dollar.



-21 -                                        I
IADP II: ProAect Completion Retort Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
Actual Disbursements
-  (US$ million)              as percentage of
Fiscal           Actual           Appraisal
Year             Total            Estimate            Avaraisal
September a'      0.0                0.1                  0
December          0.0                0.3                  0
Match             0.0                0.5                  0
June              0.0                1.0                  0
1281/82
September         0.3                3.0                 10
December          1.1                5.0                 22
March              1.3               7.0                 19
June              1.6                9.0                 18
1982/83
September         1.9               12.0                 16
December          2.2               15.0                 15
March             2.8               18.0                 16
June              2.9               21.0                 14
1i83/84
September         3.0               24.0  1/             13
December          3.2               27.0                 12
March             3.4               30.0                 11
June               .A               33.3                  _
1964/3
September         N.A.              36.0  1/              -
December          4.9               39.0                 13
March             4.9               41.0                 12
June              4.9               39.0                 11
198S/86
September  I/    5.0                45.0                 11
December          5.1               46.0                 11
March      5/ 5.3                    -                   12
June              5.3.               -                   12
1986/87
September         5.3                -                   12
December   _/    5.3                 -                   12
I/   At Government's request the Bank cancelled US$ 34 million of the US$
46 million credit in September, 1983. A further US$ 4.5 was
cancelled in August.
Vt   Project Effectiveness Date was July 1980.  The Project provided for
retroactive financing from December 1978.
.1/   Completion Date as specified in the original DCA.
4/   Closing Date as specified in the DCA.
5/   Credit account closing date was October 31, 1986.



-23 -                 Appendix I
Page 2 of 6
INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEIl5HDES PROJEC
PROJGCT COMPLETION REPORT
Na3or Covenants Not or Onlv Partially Comolied With
3.03   The Borrower shall submit promptly   Documentation was frequently
appropriate documentation with        inadequate and EUMA has had to return
each application for disbursements   a number of disbursement applications
under the Credit.                    A more important factor in explaining
the poor rate of disbursements has been
Government's failure to submit claims for
expenditures already incurred.
4.01   The Borrower shall carry out the      Financial operations of unions and
(a)   Project or cause it to be carried    societies were unsatisfactory.  Audited
out In conformity with appropriate   reports were 1-3 years in arrears,
agricultural, financial and           accounts are not properly kept and
engineering practices and provide    there were frequent instances of
funds promptly as needed.            misallocation and misappropriation of
funds.
Government has allocated in the budget abc
25% of the funds required for Project
Implementation as estimated in the Work
Plans.
4.01   The Borrower shill enter into a       1. The SLA was not finalized.
(b)    Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA)
with CBK which shall specify terms   2. The cause of the delay was a
and conditions for onlending of       fundamental disagreement about the
credit funds to Unions and            strategy for lending.  CBR did not
Societies and, through them,         want to lend to financially and/or
to famers.  The SLA                  managerially weak unions and societies
should be acceptable to IDA.         without a Government Guarantee.  (The
repayment rate averaged about 21S). CBK w
willing to operate without a guarantee
provided they had complete discretion on
selection or borrowers. Neither the Bank
nor the Treasury wanted to give CBK a
blanket guarantee. MOCD, on the other har
argued that without a guarantee, many unic
and societies would be ineligible to borro



Appendix I
-24-                              Page 3 of 6
4.03   Project shall be carried out           The Work Plans address only the
(a)    on the basis of Work Plans             physical and financial requirements
prepared annually.                    but not underlying policy issues and
constraints, which remain unsolved. Thes.
Issues can beat be addressed in the conte:
of the new projects that will emerge from
the disaggregation of IADP.
4.03   Each Work Plan shall, inter            See comments under Schedule 5.
(b)    alia, satisfy the crfteria
and conditions set out in
Schedule 5, Part C.
4.03   By March 1 each year, Borrower         Timetable not complied with.  For
(c)    shall submit to IDA proposed           1981/82, Work Plan was submitted to
Work Plan covering the year            Bank in July, i.e. 4 months late.
commencing the following July 1.      Plans for 1982/83 were submitted 3 months
late and plans for 1983/84 are only
partially submitted. Since purpose of
early submission is to allow Bank to
comment before the Plan is finalized,
this objective Is clearly nullified.
4.04   To strengthen MOCD, the                MOCD submitted proposals to the
(b)    Borrower shall, in agreement           Director of Personnel Management,
with IDA:                              Office of the President, in December
1978. Subsequently, in September
(i)  by June 30, 1980, develop        1979, the President appointed a Civil
proposal for the re-organization      Service Review Comission which, in
of MOCD .... specifying               addition to a review of the Civil
the criteria upon which a             Service, was expected to examine
detailed re-organization plan         MOCD's proposals.  MOCD submitted
(referred to in sub-para (li)         further proposals for strengtbening of
below) shall be formulated;           MOCD to the Commission, a copy of
which was received by RMHA under cover
(ii) by October 30, 1980,             of a letter dated May 29, 1980, from
formulate and approve a               the Comissioner of Cooperative
detailed plan for the                 Development.  The Civil Service Review
re-organization of MOCD, including   Commission's report has now been
recomendations as to its              published.  However, it does not
organization and                       Include proposals for strengthening of
administrative structures and          Individual Ministries, including MOCD.
as to the number, grading and         The Commission recommended that such
responsibilities of its staff,         review be undertaken by DPM. DPM has
together with a schedule for           completed this study and MOCD has
the implementation of such            submitted Its reactions.  Neither the
recommendations; and                  DPM study nor MOCD's reactions have
been submitted to IDA.
(iil) carry out such
reorganization plan in accordance
with the implementation schedule
set forth therein.



Appendix I
-25-                         Page-4 of 6
4.06   PRED shall coordinate, monitor        The main channel for coordination of
(a)    and provide necessary data for        the mawy Ministries and Agencies was
evaluation of the project.            envisaged to be the IADP Coordination
Committee. This rarely met, was attended
junior staff, and was too cumbersome to
provide effective policy guidance on proj
implementation. Nor did PMED have the
authority over other Ministries,
Parastatals and banks to take on this
function (details are in the PCR for lADP
I). As a result, there was little effect-
coordiation. Finally, the IADP N & E
effort, done vith the assistance of the
Harvard TAP, has been misdirected and it
to generate little useful quantitative da
(details are in the PCR for IADP I).
4.06   PMED shall be adequately staffed.   PFED, which was also responsible for
(c)                                          carrying out several other Bank
agricultural Projects in Kenya, has not
always been adequately staffed.
4.07   Borrover shall employ inter-          Only the plant breeder
(a)    nationally recruited experts          (cotton), the two extension
as set out in Schedule 6,             consultants and the financial
including 2 artificial insemi-        controller vere recruited.
nation experts (AI), 2 plant
breeders, 2 agronomists, 2 -
economists and 1 agrostologist.
Bank has recently amended
Schedule 6 to include 2 extension
specialists and a financial
controller for the CLSMB.
4.09   Prior to the construction of          Component was effectively
rural access roads, Government        deleted from the proJect because
shall submit proposals.               of budgetary cuts by Treasury.
4.10   Government shall submit by            Proposals not submitted.
December 31, 1980 an investment
proposal for additional
training facilities.
4.11   To strengthen CBR, CB  voould         CBK established four branches
establish about 12 field              (Kisumu in July 1980, Mombasa in March
offices, and shall employ             1981, Meru In July 1981 and Nakuru in
a credit officer for each of          July 198)) and two field offices
the 12 field offices and 2            (Eldoret in January 1981 and Nyeri
additional credit officers at         January 1983).  Although this was an
CBK headquarters.                     improvement, it does not comply fully
with the covenant.



Appendix I
Page 5 of 6
- 26 -
4.13     The Borrover shall maintain           Records to reflect progress on the
(b)(i)   records to record and monitor         major components of the project are
the progress of the Project,          not adequate.  For example, the Bank
including its costs and benefits.    has frequently requested data on number
loanees, number of repeat loans, recover
rates, and flow of funds from CBK to
unions, societies and thence to farmers,
and from the farmers back to CBK. This
data has not been supplied despite some
attempt by MOCD and CBK to provide the
data - mainly because of the inadequate
state of accounts.
In addition, evaluation of project is
inadequate to quantify project benefits.
Survey data collected since start of
projet has not, and cannot, be analysed.
Moreover, design of the survey was poorl
conceived. NMKA employed a consultant t
assist Government review and draw up a
revised evaluation system but consultant
proposal was rejected by Government.
4.13     The Borrower shall prepare            Last progress report submitted covered
(b)(ii)  progress reports which shall          period to April 1980. The report did
inter alia, identify bottlenecks      not adequately record progress of the
and problem., reasons                 project.  Nor did it identify
for discrepancies between             bottlenecks and propose solutions.
targets and performance, and
shall recommend appropriate
remedial action. Such progress
reports shall be submitted for
approval to the IADP
Coordinating Comittee
before submission to IDA.
4.13     By not later than August 31           CBI and MOCD have not prepared an
(c)      in each year, the Borrower            Annual Review. The reason for this
shall cause CBS, in consultation      was that under IADP-I, CBK had a
with MOCD, to prepare                 guarantee from Government covering all.
an Annual Review of the               credit losses so that It felt compelled
eligibility of each cooperative       to lend to all unions and societies
society and union proposed            irrespective of their finaneial and
for inclusion in the Work             managerial status.  Under IADP-II,
Plan for the followin  fiscal         MOCD was unwilling to participate
year, Including each such             in the review since It would have
union's and society's credit          excluded several unions and societies.
standing and limit, taking account   Nevertheless, CBI, which was familiar
of and evaluating inter-alia          with the financial and managerial
its financial condition and           status of unions and societies,
credit worthiness, and adequacy       has only lent to the viable unions
of management, including systems      and societies under IADP-II.
and procedures for credit
approval, supervision and
collection and auditing



Appendix I
- 27- _Page 6 of 6
arrangements.  Such Review to
be copied to the
Association and the Fund.
5.01   Each implementing Department          No consolidated financial statements
and agency shall maintain             prepared.
separate records to reflect
operations, resources and
expenditures of the Project.
Based on these records,, PlED
shall prepare annual
consolidated financial statements
for submission to IDA.
5.02   The Borrower shall cause the          Not complied with.  No
Office of the President, MOA          audit reports received.
MOCD, NOW, MMD, MLD, CBK,             Sample of audit reports
cooperative societies and             fr#m unions and societies
unlons, AFC, MPB, CL$SM, and         have been reviewed by WENA
UFC to furnish to IDA not later       but they were not formally
than six months after the end        submitted to the Bank. As
of each fiscal year copies of        mentioned In 4.01(a), accounts
audited accounts.                     of unions and societies are often
not properly kept; most audits are 2 - 3
years in arrears and the quality of audit
(by MOCD) was mostly unsatisfactory.
5.04   Except as IDA shall agree,            Fees Inadequate to cover costs.
Borrower shall charge cattle
dip fees sufficient to cover
operating costs.
5.08   The Borrower shall ensure that        Agricultural pricing issues are
prices paid to farmers for           being tackled as part of the
livestock products, maize,           Structural Adjustment Credit.
pyrethrum, cot..on and other         The mission believes that IADP
controlled agricultural              was not the appropriate vehicle
products, shall be maintained         to address these critical and
at appropriate levels to provide      politically highly sensitive issues.
adequate producer incentives.
Schedule 5 Part C2(d)
In order to be included in the       As noted, the Review has not been
Work Plan, participating              undertaken (see DCA 4.13 (c)).
societies and unions should, in
the judgement of MOCD and CBK,
satisfy criteria as to financial
condition and credit-
worthiness, and adequacy of
management (to be based on Review
referred to in Section 4.13 (c)).



- 29 -
APPENDIX II
Page 1 of 2
fL t  IFAD        FIDA                    FIDA
INTERNATIONAL     FONDS                   PONDO
rUND FOR          INTERNATIONAL           INTERNACIONAL
AGRICULTURAL      DE DFVELOPPEMENT        DE DESARROLLO
^   DEVELOPMENT   AGRICOLE                AGRICOLA
107, Via doi Stafio 00142 Romp. Itay - Tebx ti203o IFAD. tel. 64591 - FAX 5043463
FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION                Fa XN Wor14 flank, Wat.hington
Page  1   of  2                       Date 30 April 1990
TO:     M4r.Graha  Donaldson, Chief Agriculture,        Frm             s
Infrastructure and lHuan Resources flvis1on                   Deputy Director,
Operations Evaluation Department                              Africa DXivision
World Rahk, Washington DC (USA)                  0020Q(1
$'WW1 IKINYA- Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
I refer to your letter of 23 ?ebruary 1990 and the atteehed PCR on
the  above-mentioned  project.   Please  find  below  our  comments  and
observations.
Project Impaet
Although no  attempts were made to ca:lculate  the ERh, the  report
concluded that the FRR is likely to be zero or negative. While one will
not arguc one way or the other, it is important to note the tollowing.
(a)   Noting that action taken under IADP-1 and IJ in respect of livestock
Ind to an annual increase of 4% (para. 3.04) of the national grade
dairy herd, one would expact a further analysis of tbe impact on
grade herd development. This is partioularly so In the light of the
current importance of small-scale dairy  operations in  Kenya  and
among the smallholders who are the primary target of the project.
(b)   The reorganization of TADP-T1 resulted in pilot T*V extension, pilot
credit, pilot Kwale and Kilifi, all financed within thie IADP cost
estimates.  One wonders whether tthe contributions of these eff,ats
are noc important for evaluation within PCR. Information on these
pilot efforLs arc avellable.
(c)   Small Scale 0rr40 ation
Five   small-scale   Irrigation   schemes   (300 ha)   were  to   be
established.   Three were established  (110 ha) or 37% of target.
Paddy  rice yield  was 2 tons/ha  and  development cost per ha was
US$5,500.  We are aware that one gravity scheme was developed with
full farmers  participation  and taintenance. The  PCR  should  have
reviewed this experience in comparison with the other two schemes
established earlier in the project to bring out the experiences for
designing  future  small-scale  schemes.  Although the PGR  presented
negative impact, this is nOt born out by information provided in the
report.  For example, the yield  achieved  and cost/ha should  have
been compared with appraisal targets. The conclusion one can reach
from  PCR Is that targets were not reached, an information available
without PCR.



- 30 -
APPENDIX I1
Page 2 of 2
34111      IFAD fACUIMRg TRANSMSSION  PAOs of
(d)   Inatitution Develoment
The Dutch T.A. did contribute to institution developnent wlthin MO.'
l  respect of small-seale irrigation d:velopmiit and the pilot T&V anti
Kwale-Kilifi   have   provided  guidellues   on   the   focus   for  futuro
lastitutional development, apart from creating a nucleus of staff on whici
follow-up project Is built.
The above examples are presented not to justify success of the
project but to hlghllght the facts that PCR as presented did not reflect .
balanced  view.   A  balanced  viesw  wll  be  important  to  make  correct
deductlons for futurc project designs.
Project Design
Points made In this respecL are valld but an important point left
out iJ the fect that the JAIP-I1 was designed without given appropriate
recognition   to   the   on-going   activiLles   particularly   In   rural
infrastructures (roads and water).  Tbls posnt Is important for future
target  deslgn.   A  modest  target  may  be  too  much  for  an  overloaded
implesenting institution.
Disbursement and Finankcing
The cost and financlng presented in para.2.05 is incomplete. While
the project cost was given as US$ 91.7 million, the total financing shown
amounted   to   US$ 84.4 milllon.    In   the   dibursements,   only   tDA
disbursements  are  shown.  One would  hAve expected  to know  the  total
disbursements of all financiers. This figure should be available from the
projeet final audit report.
GOK Views
The report does not reflect the poeltion and views of the Government
of Kenya regardirg this project. $ince the World Bank and tbcl Government
of Kenya have different opinions during Implementation otn the project as
it was designed and the revisions that were thought necessary, the
Government supporting integrated rural developument and the World Bank
favouring a disaggregation into separate projects, it would have been
appropriate to inelude, in the Completion Report, a section suamarizing
the views of the Government on the usefulnesr of this project and on the
conclusions and lessons that were drawn from thls experience.
Im4fL on Beneficiaries
The  report  does  not  make  any  effort  Lo  assess  the  project
effects/impeat, regarding the benefits/disbenefits, intended or otherwise,
for both the intenMed beneficiaries as well as other groups.   Certainly
this would have been possible if it has been the objective of the PCR
mission that visited Kenya.  The beneficiaries, at least some are easily
identifiable (irrigation schemes, grade cattle owners, pilot farmers of
Thy, beneficiaries of two dams constructed cooperatives that benefitted
Kwale-Kllif1 pilot farmers.
Thls is important because the project represents a flrot  ttetpt of
the Bank to target the poor farmers.
.  4,



