Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repor N.P-2644-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 7, 1979
Tis documt bk  raobicted dishibudei and may be usd by reci0bes .dy in te pWormoce of
tbkofle  duds a   etdeus way mt ofterwise be dislsd withu Wod Bank *u&wiutl.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  -   Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh             -   US$0.133
US$1.00         -   KSh 7.5
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed rate of
9.66 KSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/K Shilling exchange rate is
subject to change. Conversions in this report were made at
US$1.00 to KSh 7.5 which is close to the recent average exchange
rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       -      Agricultural Finance Corporation
CBK       -      Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd.
CLSMB     -      Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
DDC       -      District Development Committee
Tic       -      Farmer Training Center
IADP      -      Integrated Agricultural Development Program
lADP I    -      First Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IADP II   -      Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IFAD      -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
KFA       -      Kenya Farmers Association (Cooperative) Ltd.
KNYC      '      Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives Ltd.
1(1,S     -      Ministry of Lands and Settlement
M-A       -      Ministry of Agriculture
MDCD      -      Ministry of Cooperative Development
MDW       -      Ministry of Works
MPB       -      Maize and Produce Board
MWD       -      Ministry of Water Development
PMED      -      Project Management and Evaluation Division of MOA
RAU     R        Rural Access Roads Program
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya       -    July 1 - June 30
AFC                       -    April 1 - March 31
CBK                       -    July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:              Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARIES:         The Cooperative Bank of Kenya Limited (CBK), the
Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), the Kenya
National Federation of Cooperatives Limited (KNFC),
the Maize and Produce Board (MPB), the Cotton Lint
and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB), Cooperative
Unions and Societies.
AMOUNT:                US$46.0O million equivalent
TERMS:                 Standard
RELENDING TERMS:       The Borrower would relend about US$8.8 million of the
proceeds of the credit to CBK and about US$0.5 million
to AFC for 15 years including 5.5 years' grace, with
interest at 5.5% per annum. CBK would relend about
90% ofE these funds to farmers for farm inputs through
Cooperative Unions and Societies; loans would be for
a per:Lod of 9-18 months depending on the crop to be
financed, and the annual interest rate paid by the
farmer would be 11%. AFC would relend funds directly
to farmers on similar terms. In addition, CBK would
onlend funds to Cooperative Unions and Societies for
vehicles; these loans would be for 2 years with interest
at 10% per annum. CBK and AFC would also receive grants
from the Borrower to cover the costs of credit development.
Financial assistance to strengthen KNFC and Cooperative
Unions and Societies, and to cover marketing investments
for MPB and CLSMB would be provided as a grant.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:  The Project would support the Government's long-term
program to develop smallholder agriculture through the
Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP).
This second phase of IADP would extend coverage to
parts of Rift Valley and Coast Provinces, and to
additional districts in Western, Eastern, Central
and Nyanza Provinces. Institutional arrangements
would be strengthened and technical features further
refined. Major components would include livestock
development, storage and marketing facilities, small
irrigation schemes, improved extension services and
training, conservation measures, credit development,
and provision of farm inputs. Rural access roads and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
domestic water supplies would also be improved. About
38,000 smallholders would be expected to adopt technical
crop packages, while about 24,000 smallholders wuId
benefit directly under the livestock component. Disease
control provisions would have a broader impact througlicult
Project districts. Investments would lead to increased
production of milk, meat and a variety of crops. Small-
holders benefitting under the Project are now largely
outside the cash economy, with incomes below the relative
poverty level. At full development, annual incremental
production is expected to be about US$67.0 million, and
beneficiaries' average annual per capita incomes are
expected to have risen by about 70%. The Project would
also offer significant employment opportunities. The
scope and complexity of the Project could cause manage-
ment difficulties. Farmer adoption rates could also be
slower than anticipated, but the Project has been
designed with a flexible work planning approach to take
this into account.
ESTIMATED COST:
Local Foreign Total
…---…US$ million…
Livestock Development                       7.3     9.2      16.5
Farm Inputs                                 3.0     6.4       9.4
Marketing                                   3.7     3.0       6.7
Rural Access Roads                          2.6     2.2       4.8
Rural Water Supply                          0.9     1.1       2.0
Resource Conservation                       4.8     1.9       6.7
Small Scale Irrigation                     0.4      0.8       1.2
Cooperative Development and
Settlement Planning                      5.9      4.1      10.0
Credit Development                          1.4     0.5       1.9
Agricultural Extension and Training         3.6     1.6       5.2
Research                                    3.1     2.0       5.1
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation    1.3        0.4       1.7
Sub-total                               38.0    33.2       71.2
Physical Contingencies                      1.7     1.9       3.6
Price Contingencies                        9.3      7.6      16.9
Total Project Cost                      49.0    42.7      91.7
Of which Taxes and Duties           7.3       -       7.3
Project Cost Net of Taxes and Duties  41.7    42.7        84.4



- iii -
FINANCING PLAN:                                                    Local  Foreign  Total
-- US$ million-----
Government of Kenya                          16.4      -      16.4
Farmers                                       5.0      -       5.0
International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD)                          5.5    11.5    17.0
IDA                                         14.8    31.2    46.0
Project Cost Net of Taxes and Duties   41.7    42.7    84.4
ESTIMATED                                      ----------------US$ million-------------
DISBURSEMENTS:          IDA fiscal year        1981   1982   1983   1984   1985    1986
Annual                  1.0    8.0   12.0   12.0   10.0        3.0
Cumulative              1.0    9.0   21.0   33.0   43.0    46.0
RATE OF RETURN:         24%
APPRAISAL REPORT:       Report No. 2600-KE, dated November 5, 1979
MAP:                    IBRD 14124






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya, on standard terms, for the
equivalent of US$46.0 million to help finance the second phase of Kenya's
Integrated kgricultural DeveLopment Program. The Government would relend
US$8.8 million of the proposed credit to the Cooperative Bank of Kenya
Limited (CBK) and US$0.5 milLion to the Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC) for 15 years, including 5.5 years' grace, with interest at 5.5% per
annum. In addition, a proposed loan of US$17.0 million equivalent from the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) for 50 years, including
10 years' grace, with a service charge of 1.0% per annum, would be used to
finance part of the Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A. report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE,
dated March 1979) has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is at Annex I. A Basic Economic Report on Kenya
is now under preparation.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.        Dluring the first sixteen years of independence Kenya has had con-
tinuity in leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement of
both smallholder and large-scale farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) invest-
ment in modern industry. While the death in 1978 of President Kenyatta, who
had led the nation since independence, initially raised some questions about
the future course of the nation, it is now clear that the country has made a
smooth transition to new leadership and that there will be continuity in both
the political and economic spheres.
4.        Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent on
agriculture. Average per capita income in 1978 was US$320 and agriculture
accounted for one-third of GDP on average during the period 1975-77. Agri-
culture provided about 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains the major
source of livelihood in rural areas where about 90% of the population live.
5.        There has been significant growth and structural change in the
economy since independence. Between 1964 and 1977 total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 5.8% although there was a sharp drop in the growth rate in
1974 and 1975 caused by droughts and the international oil crisis.   Popula-
tion grew at nearly 3.5% per annum over the same period, and real per capita



income, thus, increased by over one-third between 1964 and 1975, or at an
annual rate of about 2.3%. During the period 1964-77 manufacturing was the
most rapidly growing of the major sectors; value added in manufacturing grew
at 9% per annum. Agricultural output expanded at 4.2% from 1964-73, but grew
at only 2.3% per annum from 1973-77. Over the entire period 1964-77, average
annual growth of agricultural production was 3.6%.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a number
of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain growth and to
reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of populdtion in
th! face of limited arable land.  Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ), 520,500
km is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as high
potential land, 6% medium and 81% low. While pressure on the land was alle-
viated during the years following independence by the opening up of a large
part of the land previously owned by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan small-
holders, most of the high potential land is now densely settled. Furthermore,
with population growing at 3.5% per annum, pressure is mounting. This is
resulting in increased subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas
and in settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. Even if the non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less
than 15% of the total labor force) grows very rapidly, it will probably be
unable to absorb all the new labor force entrants because of its small base.
Considerable budgetary pressure has also been created because of the growing
demand for social services. Finally, efforts to improve the distribution of
income are impeded because of the relative lack of access to land and educa-
tion for the children of the poorest sections of the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.  The
rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon investments
in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To a
lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector increas-
ingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of
domestic inputs and increased production for export.
10.       An additional problem is the slow growth and lack of diversification
of exports which have consistently grown at a slower pace than GDP. From
1964-74 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate of 4.6%.
However, over the past five years export volume has stagnated at the 1974
level. To some extent this is a reflection of production problems in agricul-
ture and industry, but it is also an indication of the need to direct more
resources into foreign exchange earning activities.



-3-
Economic Performance 1974-78
11.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been especially vulnerable
to swings in. the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the growth
rate fell sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and
other import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated
rapidly in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage
in Brazil worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978
with the decline in coffee prices toward more normal levels.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76, thus protecting the balance of payments and keeping externally-
generated domestic price increases from getting out of hand. However, through-
out this period there were increasing pressures on the Government to expand
its expenditures emanating primarily from increased school enrollments and
abolition of fees for the first four years of education; concerns about
national security; and the need to replace East African Community (EAC)
Corporations with national entities. With the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the
Government decided to greatly expand budgetary outlays, both recurrent and
capital, to ensure that the additional revenues would be used for development
purposes. As a result, the budget deficit rose from less than 5% of GDP in
1976/77 to a,n estimated 9% in 1978/79. At the same time, the monetary authori-
ties were doing little to limit the effect of rising foreign exchange reserves
on commercial bank liquidity and expansion of credit to the private sector.
As a result, domestic credit grew by an average of nearly 30% in 1977 and
1978. The combination of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and the
high agricultural incomes produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a rapid
rise in import levels. By the latter half of 1977 coffee prices had passed
their peak and begun to decline. As a result the trade deficit rose sharply
in 1978 and the foreign exchange reserves were rapidly depleted. The balance
on current account deteriorated from +US$58 million in 1977 to -US$650
million in 1978, while reserves fell by US$200 million.
Fourth Five--Year Development Plan, 1979-83
13.       TLe emphasis of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is on restor-
ing growth to the levels that prevailed before 1974, while alleviating poverty
through creation of income earning opportunities and provision of social
services to meet the basic needs of the population. The Plan correctly
identifies t:he key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a development
strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed, explicit in
its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on development.
14.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision,
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a National
Land Commission be establishetd to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing poliLcies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prLces and the marketing system be made more competitive and effi-
cient to improve nrices to farmers. Research and extension services are to



-4 -
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition
to projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production,
a series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is pro-
posed to redress the neglect of these areas.
15.       The major thrust of industrial policy w4'll be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizii,g industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on iml1orts over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to car:y forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerable pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
16.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and
will be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls
for a more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and
intervention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial in-
vestment incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally,
while there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector
can play in the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recom-
mendations for aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical sup-
port and ending of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the
previous Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.5%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors,and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
Economic Prospects
18.       In spite of the generally well-conceived policy measures proposed
in the Fourth Plan, it will be very difficult to attain the Plan's targets,
especially the target GDP growth rate of 6.3% per annum. This is largely due
to balance of payments and budgetary problems which are likely to be more
severe and long-lasting than was foreseen at the time of Plan preparation.
The balance of payments position is likely to remain difficult throughout
the Plan period for three reasons.  First, the terms of trade are projected to
deteriorate through 1982, largely due to oil price increases and unfavorable
export prospects. Second, there has been a significant increase in the level
of commercial borrowing to finance large expenditures for successors to the
EAC corporations and other large projects. Finally, prompted by growing
political tensions in Eastern Africa and the realization that the country had
spent very little on defense since independence, Kenya carried out a major



- 5 -
program to re-equip its armed forces in 1977-78. The equipment has been
purchased on credit, the repayment of which will have a substantial impact
on the balance of payments throughout the Plan period.
19.       The budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in the
Plan. First, the balance of payments problem will constrain the rate of
growth of the economy and of revenue. Second, the President has recently
announced several measures which are not included in the Plan but which will
have significant direct budgetary consequences. These measures include:
(a) provision of free milk for students in the first seven years of school;
(b) elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth years of elementary
school; (c) initiation of a national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase
in employment in the public and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage
restraint. Finally, the increased military expenditures will also increase
budgetary pressure.
20.       In order to deal wilth the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has slowed the growth of credit, limited import license approvals, and
in December 1978 introduced import deposit regulations. These measures should
have some immediate impact on import levels. In addition, the Government has
adopted a comprehensive economic program aimed at keeping the loss of foreign
exchange reserves below US$133 million for 1979-80 combined and at gradually
reducing the rate of inflation to less than 10% in 1980/81 (compared to 13.7%
in 1978). The Government's program has been incorporated into a stand-by
arrangement with the International Monetary Fund; the agreement, which is for
a period of two years, involves the upper credit tranches, through the fourth,
including the use of the Special Fund Facility, and will make an amount equiva-
lent to about US$157 million available to Kenya. In addition, Kenya has been
permitted to purchase the equivalent of US$89 million under the Fund's com-
pensatory financing facility. The first drawing under the stand-by agreement
has already been made and subsequent drawings are scheduled quarterly, ending
March 31, 1981.
External Debt
21.       The recent expansion of Government and Government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to an estimated 11.2% in 1979 including service payments on
a notional 50% share of the debt of the EAC corporations. The debt service
ratio is expected to increase to about 16% in the mid 1980's and to decline
gradually thereafter. Debt siervice payments to the Bank are 14.9% of total
debt service payments; the IDA share is 0.9%. The Bank's share of total debt
service payments is projected to rise to about 22% by 1985 while IDA's share
will rise to 1%. The Bank is presently holding 22% of Kenya's total debt and
IDA 9%; the Bank's share is etxpected to rise to 26% and IDA's to 15% by 1985.
The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated repayments of
loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however, is the gradual
switch by or-her donors from loans to straight grants (including conversion of
some loans ito grants). Because of the long-term balance of payments constraint,
Kenya's devealopment program will require substantial financing in excess of
public savings and available non-Bank Group external capital combined and we
therefore expect to continue our practice of financing a substantial portion
of total project costs, including some local costs when necessary.



- 6 -
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
22.       The major developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312)
and more recent developments were outlined in a statement to the Executive
Directors at the Board meeting held on January 14, 1979. Dr. Victor Umbricht,
the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States, is continuing his
work on appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC corporations. The
establishment of national corporations to replace the former EAC corporations
has in some cases required large expenditures (para. 18) but the burden will
hopefully be temporary, as the new corporations are expected to become self-
financing. The closure of the border with Tanzania has had some effect on
trade -- Tanzania was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods -- but
new markets are being developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya were small,
replacing these has not been a problem except for specific commodities
(i.e. tobacco and cotton). The border closure has also had a slightly
negative impact on tourism, although Kenya is expected to overcome this by
developing additional beach resorts and game parks within Kenya.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
23.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 33 Bank loans, including three on Third
Window terms, and 27 IDA credits amounting to US$994.1 million, supporting 52
operations. In addition, Kenya has been one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans
totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the development of
common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and finance for industry),
operated regionally for the three Partner States of the East African Community.
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Kenya
and to the East African Community Corporations, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects as of September 30, 1979.
24.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, par-
ticularly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also
focused on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to
comprehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
25.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income distri-
bution objectives. Projects approved since July 1978 include an Engineering
Project (Olkaria Geothermal), a Narok Agricultural Development Project, a
Sugar Rehabilitation Project, a Rural Water Supply Project, a First Tele-
communications Project, a Highway Sector Project and a Smallholder Coffee
Improvement Project. A third power project, a fisheries project, a pilot
scheme for development of arid and semi-arid areas and a fourth line of credit
to the Industrial Development Bank have been appraised, as has a program loan
to help address Kenya's balance of payments difficulties (paras. 18-20). All
of these projects are expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive
Directors later this fiscal year. In addition, a railways project has been



- 7 -
appraised, while an urban transport project, a fifth education project, an
industrial project for expansion of soda ash production and a second popula-
tion project are under preparation.
26.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  Pro-
gress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project, however, has been slow
due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners to partici-
pate. Kenya has also experienced serious cost overruns, most notably on road
construction projects, but Government has made funds available to complete
these projects. Current cost estimates for the Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project (now in the preliminary stages of implementation) indicate that heavy
cost overruns are likely to be incurred; the financial consequences are under
discussion with the Government and the co-financiers.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
27.       IFC has committed a total of US$42.9 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of September 30, 1979, IFC held for its own account US$32.1
million comprising US$24.1 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity. A
summary of GFC investments itn Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
28.       In spite of the rapid expansion of manufacturing in Kenya, agri-
culture remains the most important sector of the economy. About 90% of the
population is classified as rural and depends on agriculture for a livelihood.
The average per capita annual income of the rural population is estimated at
US$96 equivalent. A broad distinction can be made between the large farming
sector, including Government farms, and the smallholder sector which employs
the great majority of the rural population. The Government defines small
farms as those of 20 ha and less; there are about 1.5 million such smallhold-
ings in Kenya. Most smallholdings are farmed by their owners; about 20% are
considered progressive commercial farmers, another 20% are in a transitional
stage between subsistence and commercial production, and the balance of some
60% are subsistence farmers. Maize is the staple crop, but smallholders also
produce beans, coffee, sugar, tea, pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds, meat, milk,
potatoes, and fruit. There are about 3,000 large and medium-scale farms
(those larger than 20 ha) occupying about 2.7 million ha, while the estimated
1.5 million smallholdings occupy about 3.5 million ha.
29.       During the period 1972-78 agriculture grew at an average annual rate
of 2.6% (in real terms), lower than the average annual growth rate of 4.2% it
achieved from 1964-73. Agricultural output also grew slower than the economy
and the industrial sector, which grew at over 5% and 8% respectively during
1972-78. As a result the share of agriculture in total GDP declined from
about 35% in 1972 to 30% in 1978.  Poor weather conditions and high prices



-8-
of inputs after the worldwide price increases in 1973 were the main reasons
for very slow growth during 1974-76. This was reversed in 1977 when, as a
result of the boom in world coffee prices and good weather, agriculture grew
at over 9%. In 1978 agricultural growth declined again to under 2% per annum,
owing to the cumulative effect of a drop in world prices for coffee and tea
and adverse weather.
30.       With little high potential land remaining uncultivated, the growing
population is creating increasing pressure on lower potential areas and
forests, making action for effective resource conservation of paramount impor-
tance. Government is now emphasizing appropriate soil conservation measures,
especially in small farm areas, linked to reafforestation, long-term develop-
ment planning for marginal areas, and specific schemes for ensuring the further
intensified development of high potential land by appropriate farming systems.
Livestock and Crop Production
31.       Livestock.  There are an estimated 10.3 million head of cattle in
Kenya, about 1.3 million of them improved dairy cattle. The annual growth
rate of the national herd is estimated at 2%; the take-off rate at 9%.
Disease, poor husbandry techniques and the low potential of the indigenous
zebu are severe constraints on development of the sub-sector. Many large
farms have successful dipping operations but this has not been reproduced
at the smallholder level. The estimated population of sheep and goats is 12
million. Local breeds have low production potential and veterinary services
for small stock are not so well developed as for cattle. Many farmers in
subsistence areas keep bees.
32.       Crops.  Maize is the staple crop and dominates the cropping pattern.
Over one million ha is under maize, 90% of it on farms of less than five ha.
There have been maize surpluses in the last two years but production of oil
crops, millets and pulses has not grown as fast mainly because of inadequate
extension services and credit facilities and poor infrastructure. Coffee, tea
and pyrethrum are the principal cash crops grown by smallholders and cotton
is grown only on small farms. Most smallholdings have some backyard fruit
trees for subsistence consumption. Despite the general shortage of fuel, few
farmers grow trees for firewood. The fruit grown on smallholdings makes an
important contribution to the diet of rural families and this subsector has
considerable potential for development.
33.       Government Strategy.  The Government's Third Development Plan
(1974-78) put heavy emphasis on rural development. It particularly focussed
attention on projects of direct relevance to smallholders and on intensified
land use. This policy is reiterated in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-83).
Government's vehicle for assistance to the smallholder sector is the Inte-
grated Agricultural Development Program (IADP). The first phase, IADP I, was
initiated with Bank Group assistance and financing, in 1976 (Cr. 650-KE, Ln.
1303T-KE). With IADP, the Government aims to provide smallholders with a
range of services to increase their production and improve their standard of
living. Apart from the installation and maintenance of roads, water supplies,
and other rural infrastructure, these services include the provision of
research, extension, staff and farmer training, input and output marketing,
credit, price controls, and regulation of land title. The proposed Project
would be the second stage of that program (para. 38).



- 9 -
34.       Government Services.  The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), through
its extension services, and the Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD),
through a wide range of services to cooperative unions and societies, are the
main Government channels of help to the smallholder sector. Technical Minis-
tries, such as the Ministries of Works and Water Development are responsible
for development efforts within their respective fields while the Ministry of
Lands and Settlement implements policy with regard to the redistribution of
land, adjudicates land claims and issues titles. In addition, a number of
statutory bodies provide credit, processing and marketing facilities to
producers of the crops for which they are responsible.
35.       Agricultural Extension Services and Training.  Agricultural exten-
sion work involves most of MOA's technical divisions. MOA headquarters is
responsible for overall policy decisions and administration, but field opera-
tions are directed from the provincial level and are organized and coordinated
on a district basis under the District Agricultural Officer. Extension agents
at farm level act as generalists, emphasizing improved farm management.
Current extension staff number about 12,000, and the average number of holdings
per officer is about 230. Government aims to increase extension coverage in
key developmient areas, to provide better transportation, allowances and housing
facilities in remote areas for extension officers, to provide more information
to farmers in support of extension work, and to strengthen in-service training
programs for extension staff. In addition, several active programs are under-
way to expand the capacity of institutions providing agricultural training,
and to make their programs more supportive of development efforts.
36.       Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit in Kenya is available
through a number of institutions in the organized credit market and individuals
operating in an informal market, although little is known about the latter.
Four types of credit institutions can be distinguished: (i) commercial banks;
(ii) agricultural credit institutions; (iii) marketing boards; and (iv) other
institutions which provide suppliers' credit. The Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC) and the Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd. (CBK) are the prin-
cipal agricaltural lending institutions, and are the onlending channels for
a number of Bank Group financed projects. CBK was established to mobilize
the financial resources of the cooperative movement and to use the funds for
lending to members. About 1,000 cooperative unions and societies (about
80% of those registered) are members and shareholders of CBK, and loans are
made for five purposes: production loans; crop advances; farm, property and
construction loans; vehicle and tractor loans; and merchandising loans. AFC
was established to assist agricultural development by making loans to indivi-
dual farmers or to companies. It makes long-term land acquisition loans,
medium-term development loans, and short term loans to finance the purchase
of physical crop inputs; its loans are generally secured by land.
37.       Commercial Services to Agriculture.  A number of private companies,
cooperatives and statutory bodies, operating on a commercial basis, are active
in the agricultural sector. The private companies are mostly engaged in
trading fertilizers and chemicals for crop protection. Acaricides and other
veterinary chemicals are provided by three long established chemical
companies. They offer monitoring and training support services for their
products. The Kenya Farmers' Association (KFA) is the largest supplier of



- 10 -
agricultural inputs. Though KFA is a cooperative uinion, non-members
also use its facilities. The Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives (KNFC)
started a merchandising branch in 1975 to expand input supply coverage through
the cooperatives. In October 1978, KNFC suspended these operations pending a
rt~organizati-Žn study.  This decision was prompted Dy -xquidity prcaX.ems
arising from poor management and the inability to import fertilizers. However,
KNFC's continued involvement in input distribution is essential for provision
of adequate services to the cooperative movcxient, particularly in remote
areas. Accordingly, funds under IADP I (para. 38) will be used to finance
KNFC's reorganization study. The Kenya Seed Company, in which Government is a
major shareholder, is the main supplier of improved seeds.
Past Experience in the Sector
38.       Two projects, both with bilateral aid, have contributed to the
development of an overall strategy for development of the smallholder sector:
the Special Rural Development Program, begun in 1971 and the Smallholder
Production Services and Credit Project, begun in 1975. Recent Bank loans of
direct significance to the present Project have been IADP I (para. 33) and the
Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (SCIP) (Cr. 914-KE) which is managed as
part of IADP. Implementation of IADP I started in 1976 and SCIP is starting
in 1979. IADP I's most impressive achievement has been the creation of a
viable framework for integrated development activities within the smallholder
sector. Original targets for participation in IADP I proved overly optimistic,
and only 30-50% of loans to smallholders are being repaid on time. Participa-
tion targets under IADP II are more conservative to reflect the IADP I expe-
rience. Higher priority is also being given to training and staffing of
cooperatives and to investment in essential physical facilities, and steps
are being taken to rectify problems which may have led to unsatisfactory
credit recovery. Livestock development activities under IADP I started
slowly, but are now progressing satisfactorily. An important achievement has
been the development of crop packages to suit different climates and soils as
well as farmer preferences; these packages will continue to be refined, but
lessons already learned have been incorporated in the design of IADP II.
Experience obtained through detailed preparation of proposed developments has
resulted in Annual Work Plans that are meaningful management tools, and the
system of farmer recruitment for project participation has improved signifi-
cantly with the accumulation of experience at all levels. Improvements in
IADP institutional arrangements and better coordination of the expansion of
smallholder credit with the strengthening of the cooperative movement and the
provision of inputs and infrastructure should ensure improved implementation
of IADP I and contribute to the success of the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       In October 1978, the Government of Kenya requested that IDA and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) consider financing the
Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP II). The Project had
been prepared by the Planning Division of MOA working closely with District
Development Committees, provincial and district authorities, and other Minis-
tries and authorities concerned. The proposed Project was appraised jointly



- 11 -
by IDA and IFAD in November 1978. Negotiations were held in Nairobi in
September 1979, and the Kenyari delegation was led by Mr. Joseph Muliro,
Permanent Secretary of the Mirnistry of Agriculture. A Credit and Project
Summary is at the front of this report, and the Staff Appraisal Report (No.
2600-KE of November 5, 1979) is being distributed separately. A Supplementary
Project Data Sheet is at Annex III.
40.       Two important innovative features of IADP are the "whole farm"
approach, which addresses all productive farm activities rather than produc-
tion of individual crops, and the decentralized system of planning and control
which is achieved by making district level staff fully responsible for these
activities. IADP I (paras. 33 and 38) is operating in parts of 14 districts
in Eastern, Central, Western and Nyanza Provinces. IADP II would focus on
selected parts of 11 districts in Rift Valley and Coast Provinces and of
four districts in Western, Eastern, Central and Nyanza Provinces, promoting
location-specific crop packages linked to basic livestock improvements.
The Project Area
41.       The Pioject area covers parts of fifteen districts which together
cover 26,000 km and have a population of about 1.5 million. These areas have
not benefitted significantly from any previous development projects. They
contain relatively large numbers of smallholders largely outside the cash
economy who are working medium and high potential land by traditional methods.
Soil types and fertility vary widely among the different areas, and water
scarcity is a major problem in some areas. All Project Districts have com-
munications difficulties and require rehabilitation of dilapidated roads or
constructior. of new ones.
Project Description and Components
42.       The Project would be implemented over about five and one-half years
and would directly benefit about 38,000 smallholders, most of whom have incomes
below the relative poverty level. Its objective would be to raise smallholder
incomes through increased crop and livestock production, and to improve their
living condltions by provision of better services and infrastructure. To
achieve this, the Project would focus not only on improved crop and animal
husbandry techniques but also on strengthening of the cooperative movement and
of research and extension activities. Development of rural infrastructure
would facil:Ltate input supply and marketing of the expected incremental
production.
Livestock Development
43.       Cattle.  About 600 new cattle dips would be constructed and about
650 rehabilitated so that Project districts would have the capacity to dip all
cattle once a week. Simple sheds for the storage of tools and supplies would
be erected, and vehicles provided to transport medical supplies and permit
the movement of Veterinary Department staff. The Cattle Cleansing Act, which
makes dipping compulsory and imposes restrictions on cattle movement from
uncleansed areas, would be applied in each district once the required number
of dips was operational. Disease control would include compulsory vaccination
against Foot and Mouth Disease, a major threat to livestock health. Dip



- 12 -
charges, which would be adjusted at least annually, would be set at levels
sufficient to cover operating costs, and any discrepancies between fees
charged at Project dips and at other dips in Project areas would be eliminated
as from January 1, 1982 or such later date as the Government and IDA may agree
(Sections 5.04(a) and (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
existing artificial insemination service would be expanded and its staffing
and training strengthened and six new schemes would also be added to improve
genetic production capacity through crossbreeding using semen of high milk-
yielding breeds.
44.       Small Stock.  Six breeding centers would sell smallholders improved
bucks and rams; it is expected that two existing centers would be expanded,
while four new centers would be established. The centers would also serve
as demonstration stations. IADP II needs for breeding males during the
Project period would be agreed to in each annual work plan (para. 62), and
Government would supplement the supply of breeding stock from the centers by
the quantity necessary to satisfy the aggregate demand from farmers for such
stock (Section 5.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Apiculture
would be promoted in areas where wild acacia trees can be used for honey
production. Training and improved equipment would be provided for potential
beekeepers, and two demonstration honey refineries built.
45.       The extension service would introduce a pasture improvement and
forage production program with formal training for participating farmers in
Farmer Training Centers (FTCs), followed by a field demonstration. Wherever
possible, pastures would be improved through proper maintenance including
brush cutting and fertilizer application.
Farm Input Supply
46.       Fertilizer, pesticide and planting material would be supplied to
farmers either directly or through cooperative unions and societies. It is
estimated that about 80% of participating farmers would purchase incremental
crop inputs on credit and 20% for cash. Inputs would be supplied by respon-
sible distribution agencies, and by KNkC once its reorganization study
(para. 37) is complete and the recommendations implemented (Section 4.08 (a)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The precise specification and
location of investments for KNFC's input distribution system would be deter-
mined as a result of the reorganization study. It is expected, however, that
fully equipped stores with a combined capacity of about 15,000 tons would be
built for distribution of physical inputs throughout the Project area. It
would be a condition of disbursement to KNFC for merchandising investments
that the reorganization study had been completed under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA and that its detailed proposals had been approved by IDA
(Section 4.08(b) and Schedule 1, para. 4(a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Storage and Marketing
47.       Cooperative Unions and Societies.  A number of unions and societies
in IADP II areas have insufficient or inadequate storage and transport facili-
ties. Simple stores with an aggregate capacity of about 15,000 tons would be
built and each participating union would be supplied with a truck to transport



-13 -
produce, a medium-sized tractor to move farm products from inaccessible areas,
and additional staff and support services. Materials would also be provided
for building approximately 200 demonstration maize storage cribs on farms
using farmers' labor; design would be based on a highly successful crib
developed by MOA as a low-cost method of on-farm storage and drying.
48.       Marketing Boards.  A number of investments would strengthen the
Maize and Produce Board (MPB) and the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
(CLSMB).  Four MPB stores, each with 5,000 tons capacity, and an additional
drying facility would be builit. Vehicles would also be provided for MPB
collection services in remote areas and as transportation for managers
and staff of the new stores. Investments to strengthen CLSMB's activities
would include two new branch offices, ten stores of 150 ton capacity each,
and four seed handling centers to supply better planting material to all
smallholders in the Project area, as well as vehicles, equipment and
additional staff needed to op,erate the new facilities.
Rural Access Roads and Water Supply
49.       In Project areas where transport of produce or of agricultural
inputs is particularly difficult, funds would be provided to build or rehab-
ilitate relatively short rural access roads. The roads would be built on the
line of existing tracks or earth roads with surfacing and drainage such as
to allow low volume traffic to pass all year. Engineering required would be
simple and general maintenance would be labor intensive. Prior to construc-
tion or upgrading of these rcads, Government would review with IDA programs to
rehabilitate classified roads connecting these areas to their markets (Section
4.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). As far as possible, the
Ministry of Works (MOW) would be responsible for construction and maintenance
of rural access roads. In some areas, however, MOW's heavy workload would
make it necessary to employ contractors; in those cases MOW would approve
technical proposals and employ consulting engineers to supervise construction;
in line withl Government procedures, budgetary responsibility for construction
and maintenance of these roads, classified as special purpose roads, would
rest with MOA. All rural access roads built or improved under the Project
would be maintained in accordance with standards agreed under the Rural Access
Roads Project (Ln. 1305/Cr. 651-KE) (Sections 5.06 and 5.07(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Planning, location and programming of proposed water supply invest-
ments would be carried out in close cooperation between MOA and the Ministry
of Water Development (MWD). Small-scale facilities would be constructed to
serve about 19,000 people, and would supplement existing schemes or ones
planned under the Government's ongoing Rural Water Supply Program. Operation
and maintenance standards and tariffs would be in line with those agreed under
the Rural Water Supply Project (Ln. 1637-KE) (Sections 5.07(b) and 5.09 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Studies for water resource planning
would also be undertaken in some areas of Coast Province.
Resource Conservation
51.       As all Project districts suffer soil erosion to some extent, MOA's
Labor Intensive Soil Conservation Program would be extended to cover the area.
Simple erosion fighting cultural methods which individual smallholders can



- 14 -
adopt would be promoted and demonstrated, tools and equipment would be made
available and training in conservation practices would be provided for exten-
sion staff and farmers. Funds would be provided for soil conservation works
which farmers cannot undertake, such as digging cut-off drains and cutting
waterways. Small tree nurseries would be established in every division to
sell seedlings to farmers for reafforestation and as a source of domestic
fuel. These nurseries would also produce grasses to be used in conservation
works. In Kwale and Kilifi districts, where much reafforestation is required,
there would be two additional district nurseries.
Small Scale Irrigation Rehabilitation
52.       Rehabilitation of five small-scale irrigation schemes with a total
area of about 300 ha in Tana River District would increase rice production
there and reduce the need for Government food relief. General extension and
cooperative services for marketing and input supplies would be established and
a survey of the soil and ground water resources of the area carried out to
determine its agricultural potential. A mobile irrigation construction unit
would be set up; the unit's earth moving equipment would also be used to build
and upgrade roads in the area.
Cooperative Development
53.       To remedy the present weakness of the cooperative movement, MOCD
would employ consultants to review cooperative employment conditions and
practices and make recommendations on the setting up of a Cooperative Service
Commission. MOCD would also recruit qualified staff for employment by eligible
unions and societies. Newly appointed union managers would receive support
training from internationally recruited management consultants. Estimates of
senior staff required include a manager, treasurer and credit supervisor for
each of the eleven unions expected to participate in IADP II and 20 society
managers. In addition, it is expected that 17 new senior positions would be
created and others upgraded at MOCD headquarters to reflect an increased level
of qualifications required and higher job responsibilities, and salary struc-
tures and career opportunities would be improved to attract better qualified
staff. These organizational changes at MOCD headquarters (para. 61) would
strengthen its services throughout Kenya.
54.       The proposed Project investments for cooperative development include
provisions for staffing and support services at a number of settlement schemes
in IADP II areas. In addition, planning funds for another five districts
would be used for a physical and soil survey, and for staff development,
physical planning, and presettlement development studies. Implementation
of this part of the Project would be the responsibility of the Ministry
of Lands and Settlement.
Credit Development
55.       About 95% of seasonal credit volume to support Project activities
would be channeled through CBK and the cooperative system. To ensure full
coverage of the Project area, CBK would open twelve field offices each with
a field credit officer, support staff and adequate vehicles and equipment.
Timing of opening of these field offices would be established in annual work
plans (para. 62). Two additional credit officers at CBK headquarters would



- 15 -
provide coordination and support to the field operations. They would also be
directly responsible for operations in each district before a field office was
opened. AFC would be the onlending vehicle for the remaining 5% of credit
volume, and field staffing would be strengthened to maintain the existing
ratio of credit officers to loans.
Extension, Training and Research
56.       Facilities would be provided to strengthen the extension services
of MOA and to give farmers and extension officers more training opportunities.
Office equipment and appropriate means of transport would be provided in all
Project districts for extension and training officers. Where needed, radio
facilities would be provided to improve communication, and prefabricated
office buildings and staff housing would be erected. Additional field
extension staff would be recruited to strengthen the service in underserved
areas, and to carry out livestock extension and training and soil conservation
training in all districts.
57.       IAIDP II would provide funds for re-equipping and operating FTCs in
Project areas and would fund some incremental teaching and farm staff posts.
Two mobile cinema/training units would be equipped, one each for Rift Valley
and Coast Provinces, and buse!s would be provided to bring farmers to the
FTCs.  Kitchen laboratories would be built at Embu and Bukura training
institutes to train Home Economics Branch staff in nutrition.  Most of the
training needs of the cooperative movement would be met by ongoing programs
coordinated by MOCD. However, supplementary funds would be provided for
IADP-related training costs of the cooperative movement not covered by other
programs; it would be a cond-ition of disbursement for this component that MOCD
prepare a detailed investment program satisfactory to IDA by December 31, 1980
or a later date agreed with '[DA (Section 4.10 and Schedule 1, para. 4(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
58.       Research investments would include expansion of the Mwea-Tebere
Research Station for applied research on oil seed crops, and strengthened
staffing and training, as well as strengthening of an economist unit to carry
out farm systems research. A team would also be established to carry out
a program cf research and testing for improvement of natural pastures.
In addition, funds would be used to develop a Coconut Rehabilitation Unit;
the chief aim would be the implementation of a rhinoceros beetle eradication
program, but the unit would also establish or rehabilitate coconut nurseries
and improve husbandry techniques for other tree crops. Two fruit-tree nur-
series wou:Ld also be established.
Project Implementation
59.      1MOA was recently reorganized with the objective of strengthening
and upgrading project management and implementation functions, and stream-
lining tec'hnical services. Overall responsibility for Project implementation
would rest with MOA's newly created Project Management and Evaluation Division
(PMED) which would act in close coordination with MOCD. Day-to-day Project
management would be delegated to IADP provincial coordinators reporting to the
chief of PMED, and at the field level IADP district coordinators would work
closely with the District Development Committees (DDCs).



- 16 -
60.       The IADP Coordinating Committee, which was established to coordinate
implementation of IADP I at the highest level, would be enlarged by April 15,
1980 to include representatives of agencies responsible for implementation of
new components (Section 4.05(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The revised terms of reference of the Committee have been reviewed and are
satisfactory to IDA.
61.       The Project's institutional arrangements require significant changes
from MOCD's existing organizational structure. The Government has undertaken
to strengthen MOCD to enable it to carry out those parts of the Project for
which it is responsible; some additional staff have already been recruited
and proposals for upgrading of existing staff are being formulated. Firm
proposals for the reorganization of MOCD will be developed by March 30, 1980,
and a detailed plan will be approved in agreement with IDA by September 30,
1980; this plan will include recommendations on MOCD's organization and
administrative structure, as well as the number, grading and responsibilities
of its staff, and the plan will be implemented in accordance with an agreed
schedule (Section 4.04(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.       As in IADP I, specific Project implementation programs would be
based on detailed annual work plans. Contents of the plans are set out in
Schedule 5 to the Development Credit Agreement. The annual work plan pre-
paration would start in October in each IADP II district. The plan would be
consolidated by PMED in January and February, then submitted to other imple-
menting Ministries and agencies for review and comment, and presented not
later than April 15 (about three months before the beginning of each fiscal
year) to the IADP Coordinating Committee for their approval. While PMED would
be responsible for presenting work plans to the IADP Coordinating Committee,
MOA and MOCD would work closely together during the entire planning and review
process. Other agencies concerned would appoint one senior level official to
be primarily concerned with IADP implementation. Government would submit the
draft work plan to IDA for review and comment before its presentation to the
Coordinating Committee, no later than March 1 of each year beginning in 1980.
Approval of the IADP Coordinating Committee would be a condition of disburse-
ment for expenditures related to each work plan (Section 4.03 and Schedule 1,
para l(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). PMED would also be
responsible for preparation of semi-annual reports which would analyze and
review Project progress, including performance in meeting physical and finan-
cial targets (Section 4.13(b)(ii) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
None of the commodities concerned under IADP II has a history of cyclical price
behavior or price volatility. However, as part of its annual review of agri-
cultural producer prices, Government would review commodity prices affecting
IADP II, and would periodically exchange views with IDA on factors influencing
such prices (Section 5.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Staffing
63.       PMED would recruit, not later than April 30, 1980, a suitably
qualified and experienced project coordinator for IADP II (Section 4.06(c) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). He would report to the Chief of PMED
and would be responsible for all staff functions related to the preparation
of IADP II annual work plans and reviews. PMED's overall staffing would also
be strengthened by the recruitment of a planning officer, an administrative
officer, a systems analyst and a senior accountant. Two additional IADP
provincial coordinators, 11 district coordinators and monitoring and evalua-
tion staff would also be appointed. Apart from the staff required for the



- 17 -
Cooperative Derelopment component (para. 53), MOCD would employ a total of 22
additional officers plus support staff to work directly on IADP II implementa-
tion. An IADP coordinator at MOCD headquarters would be the counterpart of
the PMED Chief and would be assisted by a deputy and a senior financial
officer. All other additiona:L staff would be assigned to field positions.
Management decentralization would be achieved by making district level staff
responsible for planning and implementation.
64.       Project implementation would require the recruitment of a total
of about 980 staff in the varLous agencies, including MOA and MOCD. Most of
these would be readily available junior level staff. Some components, however,
require technical assistance. Terms of reference of all experts and consul-
tants recruited internationally would be submitted to IDA for approval, and
appointments would be made in consultation with IDA (Section 4.07(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The average unit cost of technical
assistance is estimated at about US$7,500 per staff-month. Job descriptions
for other key project staff, including CBK field officers, would be agreed
with IDA (Section 4.07(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Costs and Financing
65.       Tcotal Project costs, including taxes, are estimated at US$91.7
million, of which about US$42.8 million or 47% represents foreign exchange
costs. Project costs net of taxes are estimated at US$84.4 million. These
costs were estimated at prices expected to prevail in December 1979 and
include adequate price and physical contingencies. A detailed breakdown of
Project cost:s, as well as the financing plan, is given in the Credit and
Project Summary at the front of this report. The proposed credit of US$46.0
million to t:he Government of Kenya, on standard IDA terms, would finance about
55% of net Project costs.  The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) would finance US$17.0 million or about 20% of net Project costs; the
loan would be for 50 years, including 10 years' grace, with a service charge
of 1.0% per annum. The IDA credit and IFAD Loan combined would finance 75%
of net Project costs, includiLng 100% of foreign exchange costs and 49% of
local expendlitures. Local cost financing is justified in view of the limita-
tions on domnestic resources in Kenya (para. 21). Farmers would finance an
estimated 6% and the Government the remaining 19% of net Project costs.
Completion of all steps precedent to effectiveness of the IFAD loan, other
than effectiveness of the IDA credit, and appointment of IDA to administer the
IFAD loan would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section
7.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).   Retroactive financing of
up to US$1.9 million is recomnmended under the IDA credit for expenditures
incurred after December 1, 1978; these funds would finance some preliminary
studies, the construction of stores and offices, the purchase of essential
vehicles and equipment, acaricides and fertilizers (Schedule 1, para. 4(e) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
66.       CBK and AFC would finance credit sales of seasonal inputs to small-
holders in the Project area. AFC would lend directly to participating farmers,
and would fund itself with a term loan from the Treasury. The Treasury would
also fund CBK with a term loan for onlending to farmers through cooperative
unions and societies. CBK would extend a medium-term revolving line of credit
to each union participating in IADP II subject to its approval of the union's
creditworthiness.  To this end, CBK, in consultation with MOCD, would prepare
an annual review of the credit eligibility of each cooperative union and



- 18 -
society proposed for inclusion in the next work plan, in accordance with
criteria agreed with IDA (Section 4.13(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
67.       The term loans from the Government to CBK (US$8.8 million) and AFC
(US$0.5 million) would be for 15 years, including 5.5 years' grace, with
interest at 5.5% per annum. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government. Execution of Subsidiary Financing Agreements satisfactory to
IDA between the Government and CBK and between the Government and AFC would
be conditions of credit disbursement to CBK and to AE'C (Section 4.01(b),
Schedule 1, para. 4(c) and (d), and Schedule 4 of the draft Developmeat CrediL
Agreement). The funds for Credit and Cooperative Development, storage facili-
ties, and the establishment of a system of input supply would be passed on to
CBK, AFC, MPB, CLSMB, KNF'C and the cooperative movement as grants. Funds for
activities to be carried out by MOA, MOCD, MLS, MOW and MWD would be channelled
through the Ministries' annual budgets.
68.       AFC would charge farmers borrowing for purchase of farm inp.t
supplies 5.5% per annum over its cost of funds, while CBK would charge
unions and KNFC 3.5% per annum over its cost of funds. AFC's spread would
be wider because it lends directly to farmers with consequent higher adminis-
trative costs. Unions would charge societies 1% per annum over their cost of
funds. Societies would also retain a 1% margin, with a penalty fee for late
payment. The interest rate charged to farmers on seasonal input loans, which
would have a maturity of nine to eighteen months depending on the crop being
financed, would therefore be at least 11% per annum. CBK would also onlend
funds to unions and societies for vehicles; loans would be for 2 years with
interest at 10% per annum. The above interest spreads are consistent with the
existing structure of agricultural interest rates in Kenya and would allow the
financial intermediaries involved to cover their costs and earn a reasonable
profit. The inflation rate in Kenya (defined as increase in the GDP deflator)
rose from 15.7% in 1976 to 19.6% in 1977, but declined to 13.7% in 1978. Over
the three-year period 1979-81 the inflation rate is expected to moderate from
about 12% in 1979 to about 10% in 1981.  Interest rates in Kenya have been
virtually unchanged for several years and there is a growing concern that the
Government should adopt more active monetary and credit policies to respond to
a changing domestic and international economic environment. In May 1979, the
Government undertook to review the current and future level and structure of
interest rates, in particular those relating to lending in the agricultural
sector. This review is scheduled for completion by December 31, 1979, and
Government, after consulting with IDA, would apply to this Project any relevant
change in general interest rates implemented as a result of the review
(Schedule 4, para 2 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       Civil works contracts for resource conservation (US$5.5 million),
dip construction and rehabilitation (US$5.0 million), construction of stores,
offices, and housing (US$5.0 million), road development in Lamu, Kajiado, and
Taita districts (US$2.5 million) and water supply schemes (US$0.7 million)
which, due to their dispersed locations, would be unlikely to attract inter-
national competitive bidding would be carried out by local contractors
selected under local competitive bidding procedures which were examined
during appraisal and are satisfactory. Procurement of vehicles (US$6.1 million),
livestock equipment (US$1.7 million), earth moving equipment (US$1.2 million),



- 19 -
water supply equipment (US$1.1 million), and fertilizers and pesticides (US$11.9
million) would, except as described below, be by international competitive bid-
ding, followinlg IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked to the maximum extent
possible. QuaLified domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference in bid
evaluation of :L5% of the CIF price, or the existing rate of duty, whichever is
lower. Before the reorganization of KNFC is complete (para. 37), fertilizers
and pesticides would be ordered in small quantities, and bulking would be diffi-
cult; therefore orders of up to US$100,000 would be procured in accordance with
local procedures which are satisfactory. About one half of the orders for
vehicles would be fragmented among various agencies over the project period. It
is estimated that such orders would aggregate about US$600,000 for unions and
societies, and about US$2.5 milLion for other agencies. Orders of up to US$100,000,
up to the above aggregate limitis, would be procured in accordance with Government
procedures. Orders of up to US$25,000 for other goods would be procured in accor-
dance with local procedures, up to an aggregate limit of US$100,000. Contracts
for the procurement of acaricides and chemicals (US$8.5 million) would be negotiated
individually, after inviting quotations from each eligible supplier. The award
would be to one or more such suppliers subject to IDA approval. There are now three
suppliers of proprietary brands used in the Project area, and MOA requires that the
same proprietary brands be used until tick resistance to those brands develops.
Construction of roads in Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kilifi, Kwale and West Pokot
(US$2.7 million) under the responsibility of the Special Projects Branch of MOW
would be carried out by force account as agreed between the Government and the
Bank Group for the Rural Access Roads Project (Ln. 1350-KE/Cr. 651-KE). Techni-
cal assistance contracts for development studies, technical surveys, and management
consultancies (US$4.3 million) would be entered into on terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA (para. 64). IFAD and IDA would disburse pari passu against all
Project expenditures to be finaLnced from external sources with the exception of
items to be fiLnanced retroactively, for which disbursements would be made solely
from the IDA credit. IFAD's share would be 28%, IDA's 72%. Funds from the Credit
and the IFAD Loan would be disbursed on the following basis: (a) 89% of total ex-
penditures for civil works and road development; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures
and 89% of local expenditures ior vehicles and equipment; (c) 75% of foreign ex-
penditures and 55% of local expenditures for fertilizers and pesticides; (d) 68%
of foreign exipenditures and 42%' of local expenditures for acaricides and chemi-
cals; (e) 55% of operating costs, including staff salaries; and (f) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 89% oiE local expenditures for technical assistance,
studies and consultancies. Disbursements would be fully documented except for
civil works carried out by force account and operating costs for which disburse-
ments would be made against statements of expenditures.
Accounts and Audit
70.       Thet IADP financial controller in PMED would establish and maintain
adequate records of the receipts and payments in respect of the Project, and
the assets arnd liabilities created by Project transactions, in such a way as
to enable separate identification of all Project accounts from other MOA
accounts. He would prepare semi-annual reports and submit them to the IADP
Coordinating Committee.  Similarly, MOCD, MOW, MWD, MLS, CBK, AFC, MPB, CLSMB,
KNFC and the cooperative unions and societies involved in the Project would
maintain separate Project accounts. The consolidated project accounts prepared
by the IADP financial controller would be forwarded to IDA not later than six
months following the end of thke financial year to which they relate and inde-
pendent audilors acceptable to IDA would continue to be appointed to audit all
Project relaited entities and accounts (Sections 5.01 and 5.02 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement)



- 20 -
MonitorinR and Evaluation
71.       A system for monitoring and evaluation of projects was established
in MOA under IADP I. The IADP Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinator directs
field operations working with a team of enumerators under a provincial super-
visor. In mid-1978, a Bank/IDA mission which reviewed the performance of the
IADP Monitoring and Evaluation system concluded that it was generally well
conceived but that some improvements were needed. Thus, under IADP II the
'pro-forma survey' (a set of questionnaires for participating agencies)
would be revised and simplified, relevant agencies would be added, and IADP
management would receive the completed questionnaires every quarter as a step
in each agency's participation in the work plan formulation. Coverage of the
system would also be expanded, and the capability for providing quick feed-
back to management on particular implementation problems would be built into
the system. Data collected by PMED would be provided to the Development
Planning Division of MOA to enable them to carry out an independent evaluation
of the socio-economic impact of the Project.
Benefits and Justification
72.       The principal economic benefits resulting directly from Project
investments would be increased livestock and crop production. The value of
annual incremental production is estimated at about US$67.0 million at full
development in Project year 15. The benefits to producers from Project
livestock-development provisions would be multifold. Smallholders who adopt
all provisions could be expected to triple their cash surplus from increased
sales of milk and live animals during the Project period. All cattle owners
in districts of the Project area would derive tangible benefits from reduced
cattle loss as the result of disease control; more calves would survive and
thus more meat would be consumed on the farm or sold. Under the sheep and
goat component, the farmer would have heavier live animals for consumption
or sale, the weight increase coming from better feeding and improved genetic
potential. The benefits to farmers adopting the crop packages and using
improved extension, storage and marketing facilities would be considerable;
increases in yearly incomes for participating farmers at full Project develop-
ment are expected to range from 80% to 180%.
73.       In addition, certain indirect benefits would accrue from the develop-
ment of institutions and physical infrastructure throughout the Project area;
these additional benefits have not been quantified in the economic analysis.
Improved domestic water supplies would alleviate the task of fetching water,
and improve human health. The development of local institutions and training
of staff and farmers would be of crucial importance in preparing future
development projects.
74.       The overall economic rate of return from directly productive Project
investments is estimated to range from 18% to 30%. The expected or mean value
of the Project's overall economic rate of return is 24%. All Project invest-
ment costs, except the cost of improving rural water supplies, were included
in the analysis as were farm labor costs. Hired labor was valued at the
market wage rate; family labor was shadow-priced at 55% of the market wage
rate and foreign exchange costs were shadow priced at KSh 10.5 - US$1.
Sensitivity analysis showed that the rate of return would still be satisfac-
tory even if: (i) adoption rates were delayed by one year; (ii) marketed
production were decreased by 10%; (iii) costs were increased by 10%; (iv)
family labor were fully costed; or (v) foreign exchange costs were not shadow
priced.



- 21 -
75.       The Project would have a positive environmental impact.  Forage
production and on-farm feeding of sheep and goats would help to control soil
erosion. Strengthening of the Labor Intensive Soil Conservation Program and
the sale of seedlings to farmers would partially reverse the present state of
continuing land degradation. The recommended fertilizers and pesticides are
not expected to have any adverse environmental effects.
Risks
76.       Climatic variations could cause either bumper crops resulting in
possible marketing bottlenecks and wasted production, or poor crops with
yields and production levels lower than expected. Economic rate of return
calculations reflect the probability of these occurrences based on historically
observed weat:her patterns and mission estimates. The risk of marketing bottle-
necks is mitigated by the substantial provision for marketing and storage
facilities. The scope of the Project could give rise to management difficul-
ties. However, strengthened staffing of implementing agencies should minimize
this risk. Delays in physical. execution of one Project component, for instance
in the procurement of construction materials, would have an adverse impact on
other components. The economic analysis reflects estimates of the probability
of timely input delivery and marketing failures in any given year. Price
related risks are minimal because the incremental production expected is very
diverse, little would be exported and none of the commodities concerned has a
history of cyclical price behavior or price volatility.
PART V - 'LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Kenya and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are given iTn Section III of Annex III to this report. Completion of all steps
precedent to effectiveness of the IFAD loan, other than effectiveness of the
IDA credit, and appointment of IDA to administer the IFAD loan would be a con-
dition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (Section 7.01 of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). Conditions of disbursement include: (a) approval by
the IADP Coordinating Committee of each year's annual work plan; (b) execution
of Subsidiary Financing Agreements acceptable to IDA between the Government
and CBK and between Government and AFC prior to credit disbursements to CBK
and AFC; (c) submission of a detailed investment program satisfactory to IDA
for the supplementary cooperative training component; and (d) submission of
detailed proposals satisfactory to IDA for KNFC's merchandising investments
(Schedule 1, para. l(b) and 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
PA r VI - RECOMMENDATION
79.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments                                  By Ernest Stern
Washington, D.C.
November 7, 1979



- 22-                                             ANNEX I
P.. I
WfTA - SOCZAL IIDICATOU DAtA SHEEt
RtFURENCE GROUPS (ADJUSATD AyIRACES
LAND AMEA (7HcusAND 5Q. ICH.1                KENA                            - MOST UCENTr ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            582.6                                                   SAME         SAMt    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL      59.4                                  DSST RECENT    GEOGRAPRIC   INCOtl       INCO8IE
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIATE /b       REGCO7N /c   GROUP /d   CG01 U
CNP PER CAPITA (us$)                  110.0       170.0    320.0            306.1      209.6        467.5
ENREY CONSUNTON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     143.0        135.0     152.0            80.6       83.9        26Z.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION  MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      8.0         11.3      14.6
URUAN POPULATION (PERCENT oF TOTAL)  7.4         10.2      11.8            17.1        16.2        24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       30.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         94.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       14.0         19.0      25.0            18.4       49.4         45.3
PER SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    142.0        191.0     246.0            50.a      252.0        149.0
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         46.5        45.8       47.0            44.1       43.1         45.2
15-64 YRS.                         51.0        51.6       50.0            52.9       53.2         51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.5          2.6       3.0             2.8        3.0          2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.2          3.4       3.8             2.7        2.4          2.7
URBAN                              5.8         6.6        7.0             5.7        4.6          4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     51.0         50.0      51.0            46.3       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.0         15.0      14.0            17.2        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.4       3.8             3.1        2.9          2.7
FAMILY PLANrNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        30.9      48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED WOMEN)    ..           2.2        ..              ..       12.2         13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         103.0        102.0      89.0            94.3       98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  103.0        98.0       91.0            89.5       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          75.D        71.0       59.6            55.8       52.1         54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       32.0        29.0       22.8            17.9        13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     25.0         18.0      14.0            22.3        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    47.0          52.0      53.0            47.0       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          126.0/f      119.0        ..              ..      105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        15.0       17.0            20.3       26.3         34.4
URBAN                               ..        100.0     100.0            53.9       58.5         57.9
RrJRAL                              *-         2.0        4.0            10.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        50.0       55.0            22.5       16.0         40.8
URBAN                               ..        85.0       98.0            62.5       65.1         71.3
RURAL                               ..        45.0       48.0            13.9        3.5         27.7
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10000.0      7830.0 /   8840.O/j       17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     Z320.0/fl  1700.0La  1070.OLih         2506.6     5552.4       1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            830.0/f      770.0     760.0/i         502.3     1417.1        726.5
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..           20L.4      197.3        272.7
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..          1403.6     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED            ..          ..        ..            23.4        24.8        27.5
HOUSIXG
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         4.7         ..             4.9        5.3          5.4
URBASN*-                                       4.7         *-             4.9        4.9          5.1
RURAL                                          4.7                        5.5        5.4          5.5
AVERAGE NLMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..
URBAN                              2.5/f         ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT.ICICM (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                .           ..        ..              ..       22.5         28.1
URBAN                               ..          ..         .. k.                    17.8         45.1
RUKAL                               ..          ..         ..              ..          ..         9.9



-23-                                          ANNEX I
laze 2
7Z!YA -sOC-AL INDICATOtS DATA SHZET
UTA                       8UZFERNa GROUPS (ADJUSTEO AIEjP.AGES
- NST REC  ENSsTIAt!)
SA-E        SA          'aE NE  HIGHER
M)ST LCUT I      ZOCI&tMC    LfiCOE        1INCOME
L960 lb     1970 /b KrSTATh /lb  -        8ON /c  GROUP /d    C710UF /e
EDUCATION
AWJUSDEO En£!OU.XMEI RATIOS
RItMARY:     2IOTAL                47.0        64.0      105.0            59.0       63.3         82.7
IALE                 64.0         74.0     112.0             64.2       79.1         87.3
TI4AlZ               30.0         53.0      98.0             44.2       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:   TO7AL                  2.0         9.0      15.0              9.0        16.7        21.4
4IALE                 3.0         12.0      19.0             12.0       22.1         33.0
F12U                  2.0          5.0      11.0              4.4       10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (: OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0        2.0             7.0         5.6         9.8
PUPtL-1SEAC-1 9ATtO
PRTlhRY                            42.0        34.0      33.0             42.2        11.0        34.1
SECONDARY                          15.0        21.0      24.0             22.9       21.7         23.4
ADULI LITERAC' RATE (PFEC!NT)        20.0/f      30.0       40.0            20.8        31.2        54.0
CONSUMPFION
?ASSLNCER CAR5; PER THOUSA.ND
POPULATriN                          8.0         9.0       7.3              4.0        2.8          9.3
RAOIO RLECEVEILS PER THOUSAND
POPU.LATION                         9.0                   38.0            44.3        27.2        76.9
TV uECrIVERS 1!E  THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         1.5        3.0             2.9         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GE7LERAL
INTEREST") C10tCt3LATON PER
THOUSAND POPU.ATION                  13.0        14.0       10.0             5.6         5.3        18.3
Cl!E1A ANNUAL ATENDANCE P?R CAPtSA  1.0            ..        0.4             0.4         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
SOTAL LUZORL FORCE (THOUSANDS)     3300.0      5100.0g  6100.0
FEffALE (PERCENT)                  34.8        33.6       33.3            31.9        24.8        29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              85.8        82.1       79.0            77.6        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCE1T)                  5.1         7.1       9.0              7.9        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCEBNT)
TOTAL                                41.2        40.6       39.2            40.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                 54.5        53.8       52.3            53.9        $2.4        48.8
FEmLE                                28.2        27.4       26.1            25.6        13.0        20.4
ECONOffIC DEPE.NDENCYf RATIO            1.2         1.1        1.2             1.2         1.2         1.4
iNCON. DISTR73IRTTON
PERCENT Of  PItIYATE INCOME
aCEIVED BY
RICUIST 5 '?QCENT O  I0US0t.LDS      ..        20.2         .. '            ..         ..         15.2
1CHGEST 20 PECENT OF NOUSEROLOS    ..          52.6/k       ..              ..          ..        48.2
LOWEfET 20 PERCENT O0 HOUSEHOLDS     ..         3.97V       ..              ..          ..         6.3
LOVEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS      ..        11. 77i      ..              ..          ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUIPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      122.0           187.6       99.2        241.3
RUILAL                               ..          ..       93.0            96.8        78.9       136.6
SSTIMATED RELT.IVE POVERTY INCOMZ
LEVEL (USS PER. CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      125.0           138.4       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..          ..       71.0            71.0        54.8       103.7
tSTflIATI POPULATION BELOW  BSOLUTE
POVERTY L'COXE LZVEL (PERCENT)
'RBAN                                ..          ..      25.0             34.5       44.1         24.8
RURAL                               ..           ..      80.0             48.7       53.9         37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
.0T-S
/a    The adj.ated group averages for each indicator are populatiou-weignted geometric means, excluding :he extree
values Df the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators deoends on availability t data and is mot uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 19Ce refer to any year berween 1959 aod 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Ltow Income ($280 or less per capita. 1976);  /e  Lower 'tiddle Income
7281-550 per capita, 1976);   Vtf  1962;   L&  Registered, not all practicing ia rne country;   !h  1978;
/i  1972;   !   Labor force age 15-50 years;   /k  urban only.
MIosc Reccat Esti=atc of QNP per capita Is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 24 -                                                                               ANNEX I
Athough the d.t. are drenl free source gmAaeily j,.aa the met artearttetiwe id reliable, It ObWLd do be eat that tbr mW eat be latonea-
t1M   ly   mparsble hbsane  of the lack of otaflidiead daflaitioea id somasof   use  by diffarent enatries im collaetlag the data. lbs date are, smethelasm,
usful to describe edser of mLitsdad, tadloeta, broam, it ehereetrise aefloje major diffrmeeo* beteas, enstries.
iTsh.      ed~a ~              for sack i.ietor aws pepsitio-e'lUetted gomebsoi  me, molcdia  the aato                       .I-es of the tadiestr an  the matpostd
o-usty *iQWjtigi7VWO to lack of data, grop aewepn of all ludiectoro fec Cepital darpisco Oil lapertero and of indicatore of Accesa to Water and Nareta
Di.pooei, haiog, Loss Di.tribotian at Poverty far oterostrj gupe are ppapletion-Weled gesmtra aeaoma sithout iniusim of the extream nines MAd
the mat popeIstd easatry.                          ~                        h   ala           ein-, at e,Lillib  Of date pi  is eat msorm- ocmtim  matbemeroed
in0 relatimaceui    of onlaie M         Tortomobs   1J1111orL IVIcouu   0500d
l.cator Cat"       ,         ae oomu   as
(AS AMA )tbousad s m.h.                                                                       Aesto reaM                 slsaetf    hltie)   -ttl   rs    dml-
WIU  tota  a,sfnce  -e   osprisiAg lend  ware. ad inland wetera.                          me       fpel  (oa,ob,  a   ua)aeodb   ereedaoe 
WMaUL-osa   -  Moat recat eatimate of agricdultar    warea osd temporarily                    preratagee of their respective popalatious. dasrete diaposal my taciuds
or parmotly for c-opa, pest-re, sweet ad  kitobha gardms or to                              the cof1ectim  sadl dayceal  with or without troateset, of tes  -creto
lie feLice.                                                                                 sad sie-wt ter by eiter-booen  syatems or the us  of pit priwica ad nuailer
instellatiose.
~~%PdM~          Gar per  npit. oatiatoa  at ourrat arket pricca,                     ftlationr. .aA iae - Popuiatica divided by sitar of practiciog phyaioiess
~4iI6iIitidTy  em   oeveraioe mthod -  World lank Atlsa (19,76-78 busal);                 juXflU?tT               .a  school at saiveraity level.
1960, 19,70, ed 1978 data.                                                                  NMasatc   we bra          Psres  - ftp..tioe dividad by sitar of practicing ale
W~~~~t  ~  ~     ~     E  - A-osal cooccWtto   of cosmaroi,al --S                        AM  fale  grehcate fraee, praotioal ooroca, and  .satenttoraa
T~fli2TiiTtsjitbIiie, cturl gsad bdro, oulasoandgas-Poouatie ta  8oaita  fle  - ttal  cibP iprurl t- apsitio  (toal,  ibb
Theral elecriciy) ick`Iogrea  of coaI eqsiealeot per capita; 1960,sdrrl   iie   ytervaatv  ctr of hoplisi had. noalbl. in
190  a    96haa                                                                               poblic ad private geceral ad spcialined hsntpit.1 end rebbilitaticacetes
970, -d 1976 dt..                                                     H~~~~~~~~~~osapitals err aetblieb-ota  paermastly staffed by at least ore pMeaiican.
POPoiATICUI AID VITAL STATISTICS                                                                1atabliahas.t. proidleg priecijlly custodial car  wer  cot icluded. R-1a
Total  otsai.    d-erenia)- As of TuILy 1; 1960. 1970, ad                                     hospitals, however, talude health and edical caters cot peruecntly atffed
1977 data,                                                                                  by a ftsicia  (hut by a saedcal assiatant, csoe,  idoife, etc.) chick offer
Urbn Peo tltioc (Cerct of total) - catic of orba  to total populetico;                        ic-patiest co-datioc  ad pr-id  a lialted rage of edical facilitie..
diferea  defiit ro ofurba  a-a  my offoot  ioaparbility of data                         A4ad.Ppio,ajop)4                    oa  sbro   dicie   oo  dicages fro
-acg co Loree; 1*60, 1970, erd 19,75 data..~iitiilti~fh                                                                   ae   of beds.
fpl.atir  i5rZ        nw     - Corret poteitico projections arebeased or              M31811
5total pooslatic  by age ad nec ad their aortslity ad fortulity                    Averse Sloe of Houshold (Cerassper hushold)   total. urban, mi  r-ra  -
rat-e  Projotior yrnatea for ecrtlity ratca e rIsof threse                                A    .hssshld cosasof a grop o   o io-Les to har  livng  qoastera ad
irveloaeuso lifoc-peotL-y at birth i--eaing with coutyrs                                  their al.asala.  A hoarder or lodger my or my act be icooded to the
po  capita i-ce  leve, ad fosaie life sopeotacy atbhiliatg at                            bosobold for satitstical purp ....
775yeave.  The parentero for fertility rate aLI.c have thoese level                  Ave-        ome   fces- oe-ttl,ubn  a    ua  - Average saber
nosuelg idecine to fertility ocoordiAg to tacce  leve  ad past                          of prea  prrost                uraad ualcuperrvtocdeigo
f.eiiy  o_Locog p-rfor-o. Pooh ooutry to the  asirdore of these                           r-petively.  D.IRslings ecolude ao--pus'          t atrctursa  ad  -rocptd Porn..
cioc cotlostlo-  of s-rtity ad fertility tred  frprojotior                             Access to ELactrictir Corceat of defl jas L-  otal, uban  itd rura  -. Co-
purpoovo.                                                          cea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ticc .1delings with electIciy tlIvigquarter  as p-eretag.  fi
lint coor  pcpoaiio-Iontationsry population tiers is cc  rowth                        total, -boho, ad rura   -Iwligo repectively.
oboethe  irt  rot  is  qua  to the death rate, and also the age
ciruotor-   omc  coo-tst.iThis ifs o-hive.d only otter fertility rstcs               EDUCATIONI
doolo  to hs repl.ceset leve  of-ont net reprodction rote,  h..o                    Ajse    rl atRtios
c-o  g ..roeaicofs           elae   trifsctly.  Th. attaitor7 POPs-                       Prlsry school - total  ae dfsorOros. total, sale ad foal                          -enol-
latiocsirs  c.estuated00 th  baictfi      h  projected c      strtia.tofllnaat th    rur   ee   spercentagee of respective pr1ecry
of tic population  to the year 2000, ad the rote of deucei.  of fortuizty                  s-bool-sge popultiore; mor11ly i-ocludes childreo  aged 6-11 yearo hot
rate to rcpiacaen  leve.                                                                     djusted for differeat lengths of pria-y  education ; for o-utriec   ith
tsa  etationry poulticon is rewched - The year tea  stotioacy population                      uniersl education seoll-ct my   osed 100 pevost ain- sm pul.ll
else boo bec reahed,                                                                        or  below or siov  the official school ago.
P.pulatioc iD-ity                                                                             Cecodsr          Li;e shol-tolta  male and f. ale  - Coapsted a    io; oeoooy
Per  q  kc.t. - (Oid-yeor ppolation per oqure kiloeter (100 hectarea) of                       dcoiarureetc least for  year  of aproved pri-ay loo tructico;
total ara_roides georral votontcal, or teacher trlo.inig instr-tio-ofor pupils
Per so. is.  gr1c,,ltura  lad - losputed no above for agricultural lad                        usualy of 12 to 17 years of ago; correepoadeace  .oro  are go.r.
only,                                                                                       occlue.
PpLatio  Age  t Iutur  (eroet) - Childi-o  (0-14 years),  orhiog-age                      Voca.tional.1ero-mat (osr ...t of secondary) - Vocatic.al laistitutione  oi-ude
(l5W ii. yer)I       detrd(5yasa   over) as nn           poenrigee of aid'yer                  te-hirol  industrial, or other progress, hich operate independeatly or n
pooslnttio;  90  i'1970, and 1977 date.                                                       deprteate  of secoIsdry iostitttui...
PPcoslatloa Gcc,th Oats (percent)_- total - Anocul orowth rotec of total eld-                 Pupil-teacher ratio  - cri!mr. ad   eccdsy - Total sideata rar11ed in
ycortpopulation   fcc 1950-60, 19070    d 1970-77.                                            Pr isry ad seodary lees iied bynaers of teachere in the v-rr-
PocuItltonI 1 Cr    R otr (ercnt   - rdn-  Annua  groth mieof  iba                              apondiog lv-l..
pcplni..s for 1951-i, 1;R070  ed970-75.                                                   Adult literacy rate (per-et) - Lit-rte  adult, (wile to red ad    itir) a
Crude tilh Oatse c  thod              A-.Anua  Live birthc per thousnd of old-apercentage of total adult population aged 15 Y-ac  ad ove.
yerpplotion; 1950  1970  nd 1977 data.
Crud;Jethi  ee  prtouad    An-Ima  destho Per th-ussd of old-your                         CINSUKO1OPC
Populti_; 190,1970, ad 1977 data.                                                         Paceamger Cae (per th-uand poclation) - Pooneoger  -r  -oprios actor care
romReproduction bate_-A_voge cuohe  of donghteco a  cn   ill irur                           sating less ibh   eight pers....; co lden sausos-ere    d edlitary
it hoc ooc-s.  r-Produot  Io  period if abs -sp-i-oes present age-                          'eh"":'e
opei:  fort-ity misc; usully five-your o--cges  oding in 1960,                           Radio Reeier.       (erth sd           4Mosaic)- All type  of rcIvere, for r-dio
1910, end 1975,                                                                            brodoantot  geea   ulc   e   huad of pouain    cldsolio...ed
rosily PIisoig - Acocptors  Annua  (thouands) - Annual naber of                               r-=inyeicocuntrie. and Ia years ten  registra.tion of; rotto  ses            Loi
-coPtoc o.f birth-vontr-l d-vic-  uce  aupi-e  of cation..l fcsiiy                          effect; data for recent years sy not he  -peproble cloe sozt cootries
placco  pbre.aollehed licenoig.
te inyPaoo -   Users (percent of  -srid caoen  - Per-eatge of seied                     TV R- ters(hccc thocdatsatc      Vrcioofrhcdatt   or
cosec of oIild-beriog age '(15-4Li- year) sic us  bicth-cot-ol d-vio-pbi                         c  e   huadppltin   en...                 nlonodf  rim iver  inco-trie.
toalacideseot   ooorgop                                                              adin yearo che  registrat ion ofTVLst a  ieffect.
-OwoaerCrcltice  (per thousa   Vssato)- liw  tieoeaeciclto
FLOdiSItirinc                                                                           ofCi.  16  'daily' general ister-et aepaper ,dfined aS a pLdia  puitotv
Thli'l?'l707ductoc  pr Caita  195-71-100) - Indso of per capito                   dented priecily to revodiog general coa.I  i onsidered cc hr 'doily"
scocalproduotbo  ofal  food co-cditl-n  Production  -ciod.  seed 50d                        if Ito  ppeers at least fou  tiere    noesh
feded 00 cc _leoda- yea  Ocais.  fC-dit iso cove  prieory goods                       Ci-ca Annua  Atteodave per Capita per tear - honed cc the ouster of tlrkrt.
;.g.  _9-ocoo  intead of sugar)  hb are edible ad o.ot.ic cutriests                       sold duricg the year, ioU.diog adsiusio    to driv-to otni-   end acblle
'o.cofeen  _e try cooded.  Agoregat  pyoduotico of vent - try                     units..
usb.ced cc octicoa.l avrage, producer prior osights.
Per -aPit. suocly of caores (Percet of resuicemonta) - Coeptsic  fto.                  LABOR FORCE
--egy equi-abect  f tet food supplies, avilable in~ countryiper-vapita                 Total labor Froyc  (thousends) -  cnro.yative p-ooct,  -looldig ar-d
per day.  A-ailaieb   npplies voeis  doectt  prduton, lots  es                            foros  and osceplopod bot -e dldi  hcueroor, ctudents, etc. Deficitio-
cpots, and  ha-ge  ic ot-ok.  Net supplies ecciude enieaL fe'ed, seeds,                   t   aiu    Lcoren   c   c   oprh
qouctfti-,und in food p-ocoiog, end lo...eu  in distribution. Requiv                     ea     oret.--Pe-i, Isbo  foce~, no per..ctage of total labor forv-
seots  -:ce ctiate1cby.FAd bbsed cc pIpsogivol .teeda for o-rsi                          gfl0It_r.Jfo±(-Iso  forc  in frelg, fv-rsty, hontiog ad
Lci hyadOot   osieigccrcct.   te-entr, body ceighto,                                    fishing as per-eotge of total labor force.
aoc tod to  s.stcib~i-to      f.  ppulotico, acd aoiog 12 perovot for                   Industry (perceat) - Labor fo-o  in  iaig,  -ontrotioc,  -nfactriog end
o_c.oet. toucehcli irn                                                                      betiity   aera    a  a   ocetg f total labo  fore.
Pvc 00100  ucolyofpocteio Igros  cc icy) - Pr-niov-otest  .5 pev                    Paticintica Onto (crocgt)  t-toa   ale   nod fee1l  - Participation or
capita cr1 supply of food per day. 'eot supply of food Le defloed noItlioty rates ace  -oputd en total, aele,enfeselbrfcacp-
nbiovy.  Oqi-eaeoc  fcc all  -outrico establishod by USDA proide for a                     etges of total,  slo end fools populato   of at   gn  e ctoiy
niie aIllcuac   of I60 gross of total protoic per d.sp ad 20 gc-e  of                    190. 1970, end 1975 data.  Theseare lI-Cc perticipatlo   rates reflecting
acI    en d pois  proic, ,o cud~  11 gyna  should b.e nolea  p-oteic.                   aI-e   trcueo  thepopulation, nod long tice trend.  A f-e stiates
Ths  otodordo arc loser thur those of 75 gros  of  st.t.  pretoic ad                     tytm    aioleuc
27 gre  of noirol prvteio  no en av-ge for thc  -oId, proposed by FAl                  tosasaic D.  -deay Ratio    Ratio of population under 15 end i5 and over to 
to te Tird   orl  fod..u..Y.                                                       tie labor foec ic age group of i5-64 yrara.
Per capita yvteiZ  suppl  fr-  anicl and pulse -   o'tei I upl   f food
d-eived fr..ee  cicI  ed Pu"es ic drINedy1COME DISTRIBUTfION
Chi11  a.g- 1-4) 14ortality Pate (per ltounsid(    Anooi..   dc-ths per tio-nend            P-rotig  of Piate  mo-r  (both to caob ad hind) - Received by richest
aegroup 1-4 yearn , to c,hildr-  in thin ngr group; for _tsidccvi                      5 perent, richest 20 percet, pooret 20 preeo.t, ad Poor.est 4i por-ot
oPbng ooontr0?o data deriod from life noble,                                                of households.
H-EATH                                                                                      POVERTY TARGlET GR201'S
"ie 'petnY 00 hiti  yar         Av-erge coole  of years of life                       Entiated Abnolito Povery mooseL  Lend1 (iper -apita) - osrba  ad  rurl 
reaiin tt htrt    950  193   n   977. da.                                           Absolute poverty iccos  lvlttht Lacelee   eoweiia  ita
Inat otality Oats,  pe  hood)- oa  deaths . ofitfent  orderco-tiislya ut d                                          ic  pu  osotatcn-odrquirac ic ncot
Yea  of ugv per thocsdliebrt                                                                 ffordable.
looco  to ifc Aanc ; ernoc  or rs.'laios(    tota, urbn, an  rura  -  Paisoto   Relaive.Pvertymoo,ievRl  ooi-cePva it.)Inurba  ad  rrals
useofpeople  1total, orban, and  tros    iti' res_beaco   oP                                  rltv   oet   ooelo    is or-tiled  ofovrag  per "Pit
-orotropplp  Occlu.de  t-etedorfaoes.tor- or untreatedi ht                            pe nL__oo    of tie v-otry. Urbn level is do-iod fro   the cral. level
__octo.nmnted  ast-  soo  as thst fy-  p-t-cted  -horbles, springs,                         mitt adjustort for higher cost of living Lo urban  woo..
end tenltry ecl   noPe-ovtoget of their re-pe-ti-e populations. Jo                  Etitod Pouaio           eoo  Aoute Poet  lse  lvl(                "ret) -  rba nad
Onubente   public foontaoc   tnps   oae    c   cete                                        ua  - Pecentofpeutio(ra ancrl)csreaou   poor'.
210  soer  irn alose  oybe considered.as being duhi  ronoonaile
co hef tIn   cc. in rua1ms   resnbleacscot  isply
hht -e oso feorwec-  of its hlo..cbhld do Oct moe to spend Enboonic ad S-ool. iota Dicisioc
Pclr,pclionut -ptrt -of the Cop In fet,,ting the fadily.  .cter cods                                                         boooi  Anolysia ad Projections Depart-et
Auguot 1979



- 25 -                                                                       Am=  I
Ec-eect. D-vI.oPP-t 0 ta Sh..t
1977
Act.*1                                _Peignr             _      r:cd_                                vr8 An    ltcf Cot.                    SPT feo
1972                              9 75      1          197 7       978       1979        1980       1983       1990       I9   77    1975-8         _______          178
A. b cton 1S Accounts
A'9rl  US$ S t 1976 ptcs..)
1.  CDP                                 2883.5   3084.5    3216.4    3237.2    341S.5    3680.8    4169.9    4474.9    4699.1    6166.1    8280.8                     5.0         5.8          6.1           100.0
2.  lain. f-rs  77T                      +180.3   +165.0      'ASA        -37.3       -         255.7        45.6       10.9       25.7        7.7       94.7                 .            .                    6.9
3.  G7Y                                  3063.8   3229.5    3261.4    3199.9    3415.5         3936.5    4215.5    4485.8    4724.8    6173.8    8375.4               5.1         5.6           O.3          106.9
4.  IW-tos                               1429.5   1394.2    1475.6    1177.0    1127.6    1295.1    1807.6    1721.6    1671.9    L944.5    2504.8                  -_.0          L.1           5.2            35.2
5.  REp-rt. V-IouP.                      1086.7   1145.4    1200.4    1041.6    1142.4    1184.2    1205.9    1239.2    1282.1    1682.5    2188.0                    1.7         4.9           5.4            12.2
a.  Osp-rto - IT d*3....d                1267.0   1290.4    1245.4    1004.3    1142.4         1440.0    1251.5    1250.1    1307.8    1690.2    2282.7               2.6         4.4           6.2            39.1
7.  A    -so-cc  G.s   TT adj.-ced        162.5    103.6       230.2      172.7      -14.8    -144.9        556.1      471.5      364.1      254.3      222.1           .           .             .             3.9
8    rrca rtC1 n    i                    2457.7   2634.5    2519.3    2713.8    2687.1    2933.9    3721.9    3835.5    3918.3    4086.5    681.0                     3.6         4.3          6.4 
9.  lne-cst-                              768.6    998.8       972.3      658.8      713.7       857.8    1040.6    1121.8    1178.6    1442.1    1796.6              2.2         4.6          41.5            23.2
1D.  Nti.onal SI vin3g                     613.0    :79.8       592.9      423.7      630.2      912.4       460.0      639.0      770,8    1163.8    1597.8           8.3        14.2           6.5            24.6
Ll.  3ce7-tic SMetnOs                      606.1    i95.0       742.1      486.1      728.4    1002.6        493.4      650.3      806.5    1187.8    1574.5          10.6        13.3          5.8             27.2
12.  CDP  t crrcne US5                    2019.9   23b8.1    2847.9    3151.4    3415.5    4427.6    5507.9    b442.8    9164.3   14079.8   22504.9                   17.0        14.4           9.8             _
1l. Saltor 5CA,-
S        far G DP 170 At -hb  1976 pr--o9 
..    ..nufact-ri"g 10d..00y               10.8      11.4       .2.0      l1.9        13.3       14.         31.7       31.7       31.6       30.3       28.4        10.7         4.7          4.7
2.  Agrtcultturc                           36.8      3b.1       35.3       35.1        33.9       34.4       ;4.9       15.4       15.4       16.7        20.1        3.3         7.1          10.0
1.  Steer                                  52.4      52.5       52.7       53.3       52.8        51.5       33.4       52.9       53.0       52.9        51.5        4.3         5.2          5.5
c. P0,0ccs
-. Octet i- Prce d-                        51.5      40.8       03.4       92.5      100.0      132.,       129.4      142.5      154.4      201.3      268.6       20.8          6.5          6.0
2.  lepett Ide0c                           44.2      54.0       80.1.      95.9      100.0       109.;      122.8      140.2      150.1      199.7       252.7       19.8         7.2           4.8
3.  T -m9af r-d.                          116.5    112.6       103.7       96.5      106.0       121.3      175.4      [01.3      102.9      135.7       126.2
.  10F 3lat-r d1571                                  '         °0.1  26.8  85.  97.3  100.0      120.3      132.1      144.0      195.0      2s.3       271. 8      1.4          8.1           3.6
5. Overage L LC6000e lte 
US$,)20. 2.0                                    57                 2.70(1      .0         .41         2.59       2.66
D.  SOv-cdec ld -d-c-ra                            L95-70   1972-77   1978-35   1985-30
I. COR                                               3.0       4.0         -.6        3.9
2.  Srporc Elawticvty                                 1.5      -0.34          .D7       3.8b
3.  lcrage  tcccsoie Savings Ratc                    ,9.0      20.3        16.9       19.3
4.  AV g .Sa t18tocal Savings Rot                    10.6      18.6        16.8        19.7
".lctslI,,tan ZI lacing,. Rtc                  0.2 2     3.36         0.2        06
6.  Z    tp. st O/4                                  29.8      40.9        35.0       30.7
7.  Z=,stnts 05y                                     20.3      23.3        24.1       27.5
S.  Z_-ecrc  GapiGDY                                  0.7       2.S         7.1         3.2                    . Ac..I
E.  Gaclnu-t                                          1970       1975       1976        L977       1970       1979-70
I Thosesand s
i.  L.or F.rcL T-aL                                     ..    6400.0
2.  W4.,  -oPI 4   - cn6 644.5                                  894.1      057.5       902.5      111.1
C.  -. .;n                                   1970/01      1971U72    1072/73    [9'317.    _1.775    19' .1:6           0/I7/77    197,78
124.0       141.6       149.        170.4        226.3       _e9.2       211.1       474.b
1t7.,       128.0       139.6      l1.2.7        201 4       _46.b       285.1       431.1
;. rcurnl sool                              -1130        -12.9        y9.4       -17.7       +18.53        22.4       .29.0       .3.5
.       5lopnt Ir ejc:
-        Dth.c
9,s -ellan...c  lpes                              0.4         J,4         3.6         3.J                      _           6.4         2.0
5. rcegtv                                     0.8          1.          3.5         J.-          8.2         :.0         0.5        17.2
I,r71.i A.  elabl, foe
FsnynIng e3ec00l1tc6
~ciron9 icurca                                  !.7          13.1        10.5        32.2        2,.,         19.4        45.9        02.7
.  oevelo9ececr .n nd,ture                      16.5         5!0 9        1.0        el.-         %..2       126.7       124.         36.S
e.  7 all 7lefcl                              51,7       3b.3        -51.3       -35.9       -6b.0        -6 9         7S.S       174.L
9.   I.axn    f :bc 7e-l
10.9        11.5        24.7          o.l                    437         Z9.9        50.0
Lelon-the  SreovcS 3.1 .. ...g                                         21.3   L b.d              5.35       12.0        25.0        90.0
Sher_-         tecng                           1.1 5.3                  4.0          .          .T.7        32.5        29     .     5.5
3.03        0.02        2.2.02    0      .      D      2
L44egea LI C:ash aaLanees
llecrea e -s ~~~~~-2.4                          -.3          -8. 1.3      5.c         3...      -12.1        -0.8       -2b.5
ii oce o- n  Z964 Pr c0.
D06eonc 23, 1979



- 26 -
am
oelane of Pavmnjts and azteral Assistance
Qtllion USS)
1972  1972        ___Iet       __ _77_ _ _                       Ira  97         P97ote                       cte
192         1973          9741       1975         1976        1977          9                       1980        1985         1990
A. Sumsry of Balance of Payments
1,  Exports (oInl. NFS)                              560.0       698.6       1005.5       963.6       1142.4      1569.7       1475.3      1630.0       1818.2       3132.5      5449.6
2.  Imports (Icl. NFS)                               632.0       752.6       1237.3      1128.3       11271.      1412.4       2090.8       2210.9      2296.6       3556.6      5622.3
3.  Resource Balance                                 -72.0       -54.0       -231.8      -164.7         14,6       157.3       -615.3       -580.9      -478.4       -424.1      -372.7
4., Net Factor Service Income                        -34.1      -101.9       -101.1      -111.8       -130.4      -170.3        142.4       -133.8      -180.1       -282.2      -352.9
4.1 Net Interest Payments of which:                  -15.7       -16.5        -18.6       -21.4        -27.1       -30.7        -25.8        -76.1      -102.2       -144.0      -118.1
(Interest on Public M 4 LT Loans)              (-20.2)      (-22.1)    (-25.0)       (-26.2)     (-30.7)      (-38.8'      (-39.4)     (-52.5)      (-65.6)    (-147.8)    (-193.4)
4.2 Direct Investment Income  (Nec)         5
4.3 Workers Remittance (Net)                )        -18.4       -85.4        -82.5       -90.4       -103.3      -139.6       -111.6        -57.7        -77.9      -138.2       -234.8
4.4 Other 'actor Service Income (Net)
5.  Currenc Transfers (Net)                           38.1        22.2         19.3        50.0         32.3        71.3        103.1        119.7       133.0        239.9       408.2
6.  Balance on Current Account                       -68.0      -[33.7       -313.6      -226.5        -83.4        58.2       -654.6       -594.9      -525.6       -466.5      -317.5
7,  Frivstc Direct Investment                         42.8        89.4        116.5        39.7         53.2        74.4         77.7         87.0        95.8        179.3       286,
S.  Capital Grants                                    44.4         8.3         22.9        30.6         40.3        40.0             -           -            -           -
Public L4 & iT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                  79.2        86.4         92.8       119.7        188.0       180.6        414.6       454.3        541.3        695.1       941.7
10.  Amortization 17 _                                -13.7       -15.9        -18.3       -16.0        -30.9       -43.1        -76.9       -96.3        -161.1      -306.3       391.0
11.  Net Disbursement I/                               65.5        70.5         74.5       103.7        157.1       137.7        337.7       358.0        380.2        388.8       550.7
12.  iUse of IMP Resources                              0.0        -0.6         53.5        51.6         18.9        43.7           7.7       114.4        76.1        -40.0       -30.0
13.  Short-tern Capital Tranaactions                    5.6        15.1         31.1        31.1         17.4          7.7                        -            -            -
14.  Capical Transactions. n.e.i.                     -65.1       -17.6        -14.6       -24.3      -101.3        -45.7          38.2        62.1            -           -
15.  Change in Reserves (- - increase)                -25.2       -31.4         29.7        -5.9       -104.2      -228.6,       193.2        -26.6       -26.6        -61.7      -492.0
B. Grants and Loans Consitments
1.  Official Grants 3/                                44.4         8.3         22.9        30.6        40.3         40.0
2.  Public M & LT Loans                              101.0        98.1        170.1       396.0        211.9       321.2
2.1 IBRD                                              29.0        34.0         10.4       193.5         31.0        84.0
2.2 IaA                                               28.0           -         33.5        25.5         14.0        36.0
2.3 Njltltateral                                        -           1.1         3.6         7.2         10.8        39.3
2.4 C-ver,n,entc                                      24.4        61.4        122.6        74.4         35.3        61.3
of which centrally planned economies             -           0.3         -            -           -
2.5 Suppliers                                          2.3          -           -           4.0         56.5         -
2.6 Financial Institutions                            17.3          1.6         -          91.4         64.4       100.7
2.7 Bonds
2.8 Public Loans ., no.1e.                                          - .
3.  Other M & LiT Loans (where available) 4/          33.0        23.2          6.9         3.6          7.5         -
C.  Meocrandum Items
1.  Granc Clelent of Total Cosmitments 5/             44.8        43.6         66.5        23.0         23.0        36.5
2.  Average Interest (Percent)                         4.3         4.3          2.1         6.9          6.4         5.2
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                          29.2        27.6         36.7        24.6         17.5        25.6
1/  :Icludes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1978-1990)on medium/h.rd blend terms.
2/ Locludes repaymenc on military loans.
i/ ncl,ides technical Cssitance grants.
4/ Represents a norional 50 percent of loan osmitments for fAC projects
Si  Represents granc element of loans.                                                                                                                                   FAN, CPIA
Octobar 23, 1979



- 27 -
ANNEX I
KENYA
Debt -/and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976         1977
A.  Medium and Long-term Debt (Diqhursed Only)
(US$ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outslandin2 (DOD: End of Period) 2/              475.1      549.8       633.2       694.5       820.9        970.5
2.  Including Undisbursed 2/                                    709.2      820.2       990.6      1289.8      1445.2       1765.5
3.  Public Debt Service   3/                                     33.8       38.9        44.6        43.8         63.2        72.5
3.1 Interest                                                     20.2       22.1        25.0        26.2         30.7        38.8
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                     ..         ..
B. Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                            6.0        5.6         4.4         4.5          5.5         4.6
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                              1.7        1.6         1.6          1.4         1.9         1.6
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                        8.1        7.9         7.5          6.0         8.2         7.3
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                               4.3        4.0         3.9         3.8          4.0         4.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                                  7.1        7.1         7.0          6.3         8.2         7.5
D.  Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disburserients/Imports (incl. NFS)                     12.5       11.5         7.5        10.6         16.7        12.8
2.  Net Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                             10.4        9.4         6.0          9.2        13.9        10.9
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                             82.7       81.6        80.3        86.6         83.6        76.2
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements                 39.9       49.1        33.0         63.4        45.2        24.9
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements           48.5       70.7        48.9         70.5        53.0        35.3
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                           19.1       23.6        24.9         33.4        37.9        35.6
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                     30.9       38.2        39.9         48.3        52.0        49.2
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                         21.6       28.7        27.2         34.5        46.7        48.2
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                   23.1       30.6        28.6         36.4        48.4        50.1
Outstanding Dec.  31, 1977
Amount            Percent
(US$ Million)
F. External Debt eDisbursed Onlv)
1.  IBRD                                                                     276.3               28.5
2.  Bank Group                                                               388.2               40.0
3.  Other Multilat:eral                                                       20.8                2.1
4.  Governments                                                              403.6               41.6
of which centrally planned economies                                    0.1                -
5.  Suppliers                                                                 29.2                3.0
6.  Financial Insc:itutions                                                   84.6                8.7
7.  Bonds                                                                     44.1                4.5
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.                                                         -                 -
9.  Total Public MA & LT Debt 1/                                             970.5              100.0
10.  Other M & LT Debt 2/
11.  Total Public Debt (incl. Undisbursed)                                   1751.1              180.4
12.  Total M & LT Debt (incl. Undisbursed>
1/  Includes Kenya's share of a notional 50 percent of EAC debt.
2/  Excludes military debts.
3/ Includes repayment on military loans.
EAN, CPIA
April 4, 1979



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1979
US$ Million
AT?unt (Less Cpcellations)
bre    #   Year  Borrower   Purpose                               Bank-   T       IDA-   Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed           96.0            74.1
224        1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                   12.6        1.6
826        1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                     29.0                       0.6
932        1973  Kenya       Highways                            29.0                       2.2
946        1973  IDB         DFC I                                5.0                       0.1
468        1974  Kenya       Population                                         12.0        0.4
477        1974  Kenya       Livestock                                          21.5       17.3
993        1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                       10.4                       3.1
1093        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                    7.5                       7.5
537        1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                                   7.5        4.0
1105        1975  Kenya       Site and Service                     8.0                       8.0
543        1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                    8.0        0.1
565        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                             10.0        1.0
1132        1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry               9.9                       4.9 2/
1133        1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline           20.0                       0.3
1147        1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development           59.5                       3.0
1148        1975  IDB         DFC II                              10.0                       0.3
1167        1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                          15.8
1184        1975  Kenya       Education III                       10.0                       8.8
650        1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                       10.0        8.8
1303-T      1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                 10.0             10.0
1304-T      1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                        17.0              14.3
651        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                  4.0        2.5
1305        1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                   4.0                       4.0
1389        1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                  25.0                      17.9
692        1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                            20.0        7.1
1390-T      1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                       5.0              5.0
143,3       1977  IDB         DFC III                             20.0                      16.9
722        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                          6.0        4.4
1449        1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement          34.0                      34.0
750        1977  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                               10.0       10.0
1520        1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply         30.0                      30.0
791        1978  Kenya       Second Urban                                       25.0       25.0
1550        1978  Kenya       Second Urban                        25.0                      25.0
797       1978  Kenya        Education IV                                       23.0       22.8
S-12        1978  KPC         Olkaria Engineering Loan             9.0                       7.0
1636        1978  Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation                72.0                      72.0
1637 3/    1978  Kenya        Rural Water Supply                  20.0                      20.0
858        1978  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                     13.0       13.0
1680        1979  Kenya       Telecommunications                  20.0                      20.0
1684        1979  Kenya       Highway Sector                      90.0                      90.0
914 3/    1979  Kenya        Smallholder Coffee Improvement _                   27.0       27.0
Total                             678.3    32.0 283.7       565.7
of which has been repaid          23.3       -    1.3
Total now outstanding             655.0    32.0 282.6
Amount sold                  11.8
of which has been
repaid                     10.2   1.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/           653.4    32.0 282.6
TOTAL undisbursed                           391.4    29.3 145.0       565.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Includes US$3.8 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
B. Sunmary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of September 30, 1979
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                  Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Five loans Eully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                35.0           0.6
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                42.4           0.4
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                26.5           0.9
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications       32.5           4.1
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0            5.9
Total                                         244.8          11.9
of which has been repaid                     52.8
Total now outstanding                         192.0
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank I/                     192.0
Total indisbursed                              11.9          11.9
1/   Net of exchange adjustmrents.



- 30 -                         ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of September 30, 1979)
There are currently 33 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. Yields continue to rise, and from 1979/80
onward the appraisal projections are likely to be exceeded. The project
factory building program is behind schedule and, due to cost escalations,
funds from the Bank and Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) loans will
cover only 12 of the 17 factories included in the project. However, the OPEC
Special Fund has agreed to finance the foreign exchange cost of 3 factories
under the project, and CDC has agreed to provide additional financing for the
remaining 2 factories. CDC has also advanced financing for their Fourth Plan
covering factories outside the project, and by June 1980 a total of 15 fac-
tories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative. The standard of
Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be high, and insti-
tutional improvements together with strengthened staffing should further
improve performance. An economic analysis of the project indicates that
despite substantial cost increases the economic rate of return on investments
in new tea factories is over 40%.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and recruitment of ranches is
very much behind appraisal estimates. In spite of the satisfactory livestock
price structure which was adopted in early 1978, removing the most serious
constraint to ranch development and viability, recruitment of ranches continues
to be slow. Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists
in the range development components. In addition, Government services in
ranch water development planning and in the company ranch sector have been
improved. Only two commercial ranch loans and eight company ranch loans were
approved in 1978/79, and the Agricultural Finance Corporation's disbursements
for coast company ranches are being held up pending agreement on satisfactory
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
security arrangements. Group ranch loan processing also remains slow, and
unless there is a substantial improvement in extension services in the pastoral
areas, particularly in Masailand, the project goals of adoption of more
commercial and efficient livestock production will be difficult to achieve.
The project continues to be kept under close review.
Loan No. 1093-KE/Credit No. 537-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Loan and US$7.5 million Credit of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past twD years for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. Physical rehabilitation work on participating mixed
farms and coffee estates is satisfactory. Coffee estates are achieving
recoveries in yields, and mixed farms are generally expanding areas cropped
and improving grazing. However, achievement of a satisfactory rate of finan-
cial rehabilitation on most mixed farms is in doubt. The recommendations of
the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the Project) have prompted Govern-
ment to make a major review of its policies, and although reaching a consensus
has proved difficult, Government expects to take a position on the large farm
sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government policy, the Bank
and the GovErnment expect to undertake a joint review to see whether the
original prcject objectives can still be attained. Pending this review, no
further recruitment of mixed farms will take place.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project:: US$9.9 million 1/ Loan and US$10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
A:Lthough the planting program is now progressing fairly satis-
factorily, ihe total area planted is about 20% below target, largely because
of a slow project start up and unfavorable weather.  The building and road
construction programs are also considerably behind schedule. However,
these shortfalls should be substantially reduced during the last two years of
the project. The gazetting of nature reserves and new forest reserves, is
progressing slowly, and ad hoc land use studies for specific areas are being
carried out. Although a study of pulpwood stumpage rates has been completed,
a similar study of rates for sawlogs is still pending. Progress in instituting
a program to improve efficiency of the sawmilling sector is also very slow.
1/   Net of cancellation; an amount of US$0.1 million was cancelled on
July 20, 1979 since items which were to have been financed under
the loan were not procured in accordance with Bank guidelines.



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the objective of improving the productivity and
incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. Late release of credit
funds in the past led to delayed application of farm inputs and expected yield
increases were therefore not achieved; measures have now been taken to ensure
availability of credit funds at the appropriate time. Steps are also being
taken to improve the low rates of credit repayment and loanee reparticipation.
The overall balance between numbers of loanees and infrastructural support--
staff, storage and transport--at cooperative union level has been improving,
and active efforts continue to be made to improve input supplies and marketing
systems.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31. 1983
Agricultural development has advanced well; land clearance has been
completed in about 40% of the area, and 2,500 ha have been planted. Yields
from outgrowers' cane have been higher than anticipated, probably because of
excellent and well distributed rainfall and heavy fertilizer applications.
About 20% of the drainage component has been completed, and the benefits can
already be seen. Although several components are slightly behind schedule,
progress is generally satisfactory. Building works have been delayed, and the
first crushing trial of the factory is now expected to take place in December
1979/January 1980. Road construction has also been delayed, and an effective
sugar research program has yet to be established. Proposals for a training
program are now being produced, and the delay in completion of the factory
will allow more time for staff training. The standard of management of the
sugar company continues to be good, and coordination among the various agen-
cies involved in the project is improving.
Loan No. 1390T-KE/Credit No. 692-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$5.0 million Loan and US$20.0 million Credit of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Disbursements have been delayed because of a backlog in updating
loan reimbursement requests by the Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC).
The lack of consolidated information on AFC's lending trends toward different
categories of farmers and the current high arrears situation also pose pro-
blems. However, the disbursement situation is improving, and cumulative
commitments in the smallholder and medium-scale farmer categories now account
for almost all funds available for on-lending under the project. Consultants
are preparing proposals for the introduction of an improved management



-33 -                         ANNEX II
accounting and information system. In addition, a review of AFC's salary
structure and organization is nearing completion. Both of these measures
should strengthen AFC's performance.
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Despite a slow start-up, project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, a detailed review of cost estimates indicates
that the Project will experiLence serious cost overruns; the revised estimate
is about 65% above the appraisal figure, and there seems to be little scope
for reduction. The Government has indicated that it will proceed with the
Project despite the significant burden on its finances. A revised financing
plan is under review by the co-financiers. No supplementary IDA financing is
proposed.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugiar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Effective Date: September 20, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Progress has been made in equipment procurement, and selection and
appointment of consultants for factory rehabilitation, road works, drainage
and irrigation is in progress. Coordination of project activities has improved
considerably, but a proposal, now under Government consideration, to withdraw
executive power from the Kenya Sugar Authority could have a negative impact on
project implementation if brought into effect.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
milliLon Credit of Decetmber 20, 1978; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Early stages of implementation are proceeding satisfactorily,
although slow progress in land adjudication will limit the number of farmers
eligible fEor loans during the first season. Engineering consultants are being
selected for the roads component, and terms of reference for baseline studies
are under preparation.
Credit No. 914-KE - Smallholder Coffee Improvement; US$27.0 million
Credit of June 11, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date:  June 30. 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delay by the Ministry of Works in completing the



- 34 -                         ANNEX II
tender documentation for certain project institutions. Action has been
proposed to alleviate the problem.  The total cost of the project has ir
by about 6% in terms of US Dollars. Implementation of educational objectivie
continues to be satisfactory.    -views presented in the project-financed
report of the National Committe. on Educational Objectives and Policies have
been incorporated in the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan 1979-83. Evaluation
of the efficiency of educational broadcasting has started, as has the revision
of primary school examinations to make them more work-oriented. However, the
Government continues to be reluctant to finance technical assistance speci-
alists from the loan prnceeds, and this may lead to delays in implementation
of the project's educational objectives. The dialogue with the Government
regarding the hiring of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Physical implementation of the project is proceeding in line with ap-
praisal estimates. Implementation of the project's educational objecLires is
also satisfactory. A five-year plan for revision of the Basic Education
Curricula has been prepared by the Kenya Institute of Education, and subject
review panels have started their work. The Kenya Institute of Administration
and the Faculty of Agriculture are also well on their way in the preparation
of courses and the planning of staffing and staff training. Steps are being
taken to recruit specialists needed for the Education Planning, Education
Facilities and Examinations Research and Development Units in the Ministry of
Education. Final information on the selection of the 30 Craft Training
Centers to be assisted under the project is expected shortly.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - lIombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 months late. Progress has now improved but lost time
cannot be recovered. However, operations are expected to begin in the next
few months at one-third to one-half of production capacity, although there is
an estimated cost overrun of about 45% (expressed in US dollars), about 80% of
which is in local currency. Government, however, is committed to project
completion as soon as possible and as the project expenditures are now
spread over four years instead of three, the required annual budget appropria-
tions would be manageable. Institution building is proceeding slowly due to
difficulties in recruiting staff, and accelerated efforts are needed to
strengthen staffing and training for the Coast Province Water Branch.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule and is proceeding satisfactorily.
However, completion is now expected to be about nine months behind schedule



- 35 -
ANNEX II
due to difficulties with terLder evaluations and delays by the Borrower
(Nairobi C:Lty Council) in making contract award decisions. Most supply con-
tracts financed by other dorLors and the first construction contract being
.inanced bv the Bank have been awarded. The evaluation procedure ror water
treatment equipment was abortive and this contract is being retendered. Good
progress is being made on detailed design and tendering for the r?maining
contracts. Satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision are now
being finalized. Bid prices to date have been favorable and the present
estimate of total project cost is very close to the appraisal estimate.
Although water supply and sewerage operations are in sound financial condition,
the Borrower has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants regarding external
audits, the engagement of an accounting consultant and the constraint on use
of water and sewerage revenaes for other purposes.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan is not yet effective. New tariffs have been introduced,
and management consultants are assisting with implementation of the first
phase of the program to strengthen the organization and management of the
Ministry of Water Development (MWD). Key project staff have been appointed
except foIr the cost and management accountant; recruitment efforts are underway
to fill this post as soon as possible. Preparation for construction of
schemes is about eight months behind schedule, but MWD is planning to revise
the implementation schedule to compensate for delays.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date:  March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 30, 1979
The project was substantially completed in early 1977, about a year
and a half behind schedule. The delay was primarily caused by a slow start
in construction of the regional workshops and camps due to unforeseen diffi-
culties in the location of sites, acquisition of land, and procurement of
steel. The Credit included US$2.2 million for headquarters and field staff-
ing and consultant services, but Government obtained most of these services
through bilateral arrangements. There was consequently a saving of US$1.8
million under the project, which the Government requested be used to purchase
additional workshop equipment and tools. Since this would assist in achiev-
ing the project's goals, IDA authorized using the remaining funds for this
purpose. With this revision, total project costs are expected to be as
appraised.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport:  US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.



- 6 -
ANNEX II
Establishment of a commercial accounting system is now underway. The principal
problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for operation and
maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide shortage of skilled
personnel. A training program has been prepared by UNDP, but its execution
depends greatly on the effectiveness of recruitment efforts. Very little
progress has been made to date, and a further postponement of the Closing Date
to cover the period of implementation of the training program and to permit
completion of disbursements for this component may be required. The project
completion report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Fifth Highway Project: US$29.0 million Loan of
September 6, 1973; Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Implementation started 18 months behind schedule due to changes in
design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial constraints. Con-
struction of 593 km of roads has been completed, and work on the Kisiani-
Bondo road is continuing. In view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the
construction of two roads were delayed; agreement was ultimately reached to
delete the Thuchi-Nkubu (51 km) road from the project. The Closing Date,
which was postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, is likely to
be postponed further to allow time for completion of the Kisii-Mogonga road
where construction has recently begun.
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. About 99% of the loan has been disbursed.
The Closing Date has been postponed to March 31, 1980 to allow time for
completion of procurement of equipment related to the operation of the pipe-
line.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on the Rural Access Roads Program was reviewed in depth
by all donors and discussed with Government during the annual review meeting
held in June 1979. The project is about 15 months behind schedule but is now
progressing satisfactorily. All eight Bank-financed construction units are
fully equipped and are now operational. By March 31, 1979, 304 km of access
roads had been constructed, of which 16 km were gravelled. Annual output



- 37 -
ANNEX II
averages 41 km per annum for all units, about 4 km below the appraisal
estimate. Output had declined due to shortage of laborers, particularly in
Kiambu District, and poor work organization in Nakuru District.  To resolve
these problems, the Ministry of Works will request local governments to supply
more labor to construction units, and will assign a SIDA-financed engineer to
supervise works in the Nakuru area.
Loan No. 1684-KE - Highway Sector Project: US$90.0 million Loan of
April 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 18, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Implementation of the Government's Highway Sector Plan may be delayed
because a critical shortage of funds has caused a reduction in the highway
work program.  While this has not yet affected the project appreciably, the
continuation of this trend in FY81 could touch projects included in the Sector
Loan. In general, detailed engineering has been completed for road construc-
tion and upgrading scheduled to start in FY80, and the designs for roads to
start in FY31 are completed or under preparation. The road maintenance
program for FY80 is in line with appraisal estimates except for a 30% reduction
in resealing of paved roads; however, the Ministry of Works is planning to
request funds this year from the loan to help clear the backlog of resealing.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: December 31. 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. Nearly 99% of the construction
has been completed (only two out of 36 facilities are still in the final
stages of construction), and more than 75% of the equipment and furniture has
been procured. Some delays in furnishing, equipping and staffing of facili-
ties in rural areas are occurring, but arrangements to improve the situation,
including hiring of a hospital secretary or commissioning engineer, are being
explored by the Ministry of Health. All other elements of the project have
been completed. The program components financed by other donors and the
Government are moving ahead and, with a few exceptions, are expected to be
completed as planned.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$59.5 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost. On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate. Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1, 1978; Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling is proceeding on schedule; specifications for the new drill
rig and accessories have been completed and tenders are being evaluated.
Miscellaneous supplies and equipment have been purchased under International
Shopping procedures.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973: Effective Date: March 26, 1974: Closing
Date: September 30, 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effec-
tive on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind
schedule. This delay was due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a
number of projects previously approved. As at September 30, 1979 this loan
had been disbursed except for a balance of $3,000. A withdrawal application
for this amount will be submitted shortly.
1/   Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975.  The loan was fully commlitted in August 1978 and US$9.7 million had been
disbursed as at September 30, 1979. The Closing Date has been postponed to
June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977.  Ten subprojects
have been approved. As at September 30, 1979, US$10.0 million had been
committed and US$3.1 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - SmalL Scale Industry Project:  US$10.0 million
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Kenya Industrial Estates (KIE) continues to make progress in institu-
tional development, particularly as regards financial discipline, project
appraisal procedures and operating performance. KIE's management is determined
to implement agreed policies to improve profitability, but continued attention
is required in a number of areas; a comprehensive plan of action for reducing
arrears is particularly important. Eight subloans totalling US$244,000 have
been committed, but no funds have been disbursed as yet under the line of
credit. A small amount has been disbursed, however, under the tecnnical
assistance component.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Loan No. 1680-KE - First Telecommunications Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of April 11, 1979; Effective Date: August 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 31), 1983
This loan became ef'fective on August 16, 1979.  Initial delays in
procurement of goods are likely to cause about a year's delay in project
completion.
URBAN SECTOR
Loan No. 1105-KE/Credit No. 543-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Loan and US$8.0 million Credit of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses.
Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and con-
struction cf infrastructure for the remaining 2,300 plots is expected to begin



- 40 -
ANNEX II
soon. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now
operational, but designs for the remaining schools are behind schedule and
tendering is not expected to take place before December 1979. One health
center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse
against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the
Bank. The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval
soon. Tenders have been invited for all other community facilities. Technical
assistance components are completed or scheduled for completion in conjunction
with the project. Project costs for the first phase remain close to appraisal
estimates but are expected to exceed original estimates for the remaining
components because of delays incurred.
Loan No. 1550-KEJCredit No. 791-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Loan and US$25.0 million Credit of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of physical components of the project is
generally satisfactory. Consultants for detailed design and engineering of
Phase I sites in all three cities (Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) are making
good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II sites has now been
completed and design work is underway. The Housing Development Departments
are operational in all three cities with most key posts filled. Recruitment
of other staff is underway. Progress in meeting disbursement conditions for
the Nairobi component is slow, and progress on studies included in the project
is also slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been delayed
pending Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million Loan
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Works has
appointed various consultants for the design and construction of all physical
project components. The draft final report of the Tourism Pricing Study has
been reviewed with Government and consultants in the field, and the final
report is expected to be submitted soon. The Very Large Herbivores Study is in
progress. Satisfactory agreements have been reached with the Amboseli ranchers
on guaranteed minimum returns, thus meeting the disbursement condition relating
to this component. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed,
and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments
to the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the
requirements of the supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-
poaching operations have been approved by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
and are now in the final stages of processing.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
East African, Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. ]/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of Augist 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: December 16, 1969;
Closin4 Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closinag Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single buoy tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project cormpletion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submit:ted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts hlave been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has generally improved with increasing throughput; however, port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.4 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees.  The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978., is given in this Annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. Hlowever, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                        1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                       0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness: October 30, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the countries concerned is given below:
(US$ million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1973;
C]-osing Date: December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables arid subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wirti , automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training.  All project it:ems, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's cornpletion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of
headquarters. About US$28.4 million of the loan has now been disbursed. The
agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the coun-
tries concerned is as follows:
(US$ million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
'The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$9.1 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
September 30, 1979
Fiscal Year        Obligor                 Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                  5.2      0.7     5.9
1970, 1974,
1977 and 1979  Pan African Paper Mills  Pulp and Paper         17.2      6.3    23.5
1972            Tourism Promotion
Services                  Hotels               2.4       -       2.4
1976            Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                      Textiles             6.3      2.8      9.1
1977            Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                      Capital Market       2.0       -       2.0
Total Gross Commitments                     33.1      9.8    42.9
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       9.0      1.8    10.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC           24.1      8.0    32.1
Total Undisbursed                            5.0       -       5.0



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
KENYA - SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPL]EMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                  About 30 months
(b)  Preparation by:                         Ministry of Agriculture
(c)  Initial Discussion with IDA:            May 1976
(d)  First IDA Mission:                       September 1978
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:            November 1978
(f)  Negotiations:                            September 1979
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          March 1980
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(1) Annual work plans would be submitted to IDA for review and
ccmment prior to approval by the IADP Coordinating Committee,
anLd approval by the Coordinating Committee would be a condition
of disbursement for related expenditures (para. 62).
(2) Proposals for reorganization of MOCD will be developed by March
30, 1980, and a detailed plan will be approved in agreement with
II)A by September 30, 1980 (para. 61).
(3) Cattle dipping fees would be reviewed from time to time, but
at least annually, and revised as necessary to allow full
recovery of costs; any discrepancies between fees charged at
project-financed dips and other dips in project areas would
be eliminated by January 1, 1982 or such later date as the
Government and IDA may agree (para. 43).
(4)  Prior to construction or upgrading of rural access roads in
project areas, Gov,ernment would review with IDA programs to
rehabilitate classified roads connecting those areas to their
markets (para. 49).
(5) Special conditions of disbursement would include:
(a) for the supplementary cooperative training component -
submission of a detailed investment program satisfactory
to IDA (para. 57);
'b) for the credit component - execution of Subsidiary
Financing Agreements satisfactory to IDA between
Government and CBK and between Government and AFC
(para. 67); and



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) for KNFC's merchandising investments - completion of
a reorganization study of KNFC's merchandising activities
under terms of reference acceptable to IDA, and approval
by IDA of the study's detailed proposals (para. 46).
(6) Completion of all steps precedent to effectiveness of the
IFAD loan, other than effectiveness of the IDA credit, and
appointment of IDA to administer the IFAD loan would be a
condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit (para. 65).



CM      --
s-e      t                'X')\\                               a<\\-                     S~~~~~~~~~~~~~M.b 
C n ry   - a 
sUAN& ti
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
N.N                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
IS.,.- ,.,0          SSAX,  1:0;     .- - -                                           1
)                          1-                d                                Wy0 0d . .\ S SAI
~~~~~~4  RCA>"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WLE                    OCS
/ --



