Document of
The World Bank                        \
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2600-KE
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
November 5, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agricultural Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units             -             Kenya Shillings (K Sh)
TIS$1.00                    -            K Sh 7.5 1/
K Sh 1.00                  -             US$0.133
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                         British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                      -             3.28 feet
i hectare (ha)                   -             2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2         -             0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )         -             0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                  -             2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                      -             0.26 US gallon (gal)
-             0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
I metric ton (m ton)             -             2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       -    Agricultural Finance Corporation
CBK       -    Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd.
CLSMB     -    Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
DAO       -    District Agricultural Officer
DDC       -    District Development Committee
FAO       -    Food and Agriculture Organization
FTC       -    Farmer Training Ce-nter
IADP      -    Integrated AgriculLural Development Program
IADP I    -    First Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IADP II   -    Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IFAD      -    International Fund for Agricultural Development
KCC       -    Kenya Cooperative Creameries
KFA       -    Kenya Farmers Association (Co-operative) Ltd.
KMC       -    Kenya Meat Commiss:Lon
KNFC      -    Kenya National Federation of Co-operatives Ltd.
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD      -    Ministry of Co-operative Development
MPB       -    Maize and Produce Board
PDA       -    Provincial Director of Agriculture
RARP      -    Rural Access Road Program
RWSP      -    Rural Water Supply Program
SCIP      -    Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project
SPSCP     -    Smallholder Production Services and Credit Project
FISCAL, YEAR
Government, CBK    -      July 1 to June 30
AFC                 -     April 1 to March 31
1/   Since October 1975 the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at
a rate of SDR = K Sh 9.66; the rate vis-a-vis the US dollar has
fluctuated since that time, and US$ = K Sh 7.5, the average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal, has been used in evaluating
_- this Project.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND             ................................................     1
A.  Project Background   .                ........   1
B.   The Agricultural Sector ......... ...... ...............              1
C.   Government Services to Agriculture ....               ...............    4
D.   Agricultural Credit ..................................                8
E.   Commercial Services to Agriculture ..............          .....   10
F.   Marketing and Processing .....            ........................   11
II.   INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                 .      .       13
A.   Program Background ................. . .  ................... .   13
B.   Program Design .......................................   13
C.   Program Implementation ...............................   15
III.    THE PROJECT ............                 ............................   17
A.    General Description ..................................    17
B.   The Project Area .....................................   18
C.   Detailed Features ..........           ..........................   19
D.   Project Costs             ........................................    27
E.    Financing ............................................   29
F.   Procurement ..........................................   31
G.   Disbursements ........................................    32
H.   Accounts and Audit ........            ...........................   32
I.   Environmental Impact ..... ....... ..           .... ...........   33
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                          ..                     33
A.    Project Management and Staffing ........ ..           ............   33
B.   Management of Project Components .....................   35
C.   Project Implementation Schedule ........ ..            ............   39
D.   Monitoring and Evaluation .............        n..............   41
V.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION ...............        ..      ..................   41
A.   Technical Features .          .........................    .........   41
B.   Farmers' Benefits ...........................e 43
C.   Production Estimates          ..........................    44
This report is based on the findings of an IBRD appraisal mission which
visited Kenya in November-December 1978, composed of S. Capoluongo, R. Egli,
M. O'Hara, E.B. Rice, S. von Klaudy, D. von Samson and J. Wijnand (I]DA).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                     Page No.
VI.  MARKETS AND PRICES . ........................ ..... ......... .    46
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............. ..........   47
VIIIe  GOVERNMENT BUDGET ........................................   50
IXe  AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS .................................   51
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS AND MAPS
TABLES
Table 1 - Project Costs Summary
Table 2 - Retroactive Financing
Table 3 - Government Cash Flow
Table 4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 5 - Economic Rates of Return
Table 6 - Proposed Staffing
CHARTS
Chart 1 - Ministry of Agriculture
Chart 2 - Ministry of Co-operative Development
MAPS
Map 1 - Kenya - Project Areas   IBRD 14124
Map 2 - Kenya - Ecological Zones IBRD 14125R1
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME



KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project
1.01      In October 1978, the Government of Kenya requested that the Bank
Group and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), con-
sider financing the Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project (IADP
II). The Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP) is the main
government vehicle for supporting small farm development, and is aimed espe-
cially at farmers who are outside the cash economy. The First Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (IADP I) was initiated with Bank Group
assistance and financing agreements became effective in March 1977 (Credit
650-KE, Loan 1303T-KE). IADP I is being implemented in parts of 14 districts
in Eastern, Central, Western and Nyanza Provinces. IADP II would focus on
selected parts of 11 districts in Rift Valley and Coast Provinces and of four
districts in lWestern, Eastern, Central and Nyanza Provinces. It is a compre-
hensive package of services for development of the small farm sector and would
promote location-specific crop packages linked to basic livestock improvements.
The Planning Division of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) prepared 1the
Project working closely with District Development Committees (para. 1.25),
provincial and district authorities, and with the Ministries and Authorities
concerned. Several changes were made at appraisal: the livestock component
was expanded to reflect the importance of livestock in the small farms; coopera-
tive development was also expanded to provide an adequate infrastructure for
credit and marketing; and the irrigation component was reduced to reflect its
experimental nature. Suggestions were made for strengthening IADP's institu-
tional arrangements on the basis of which the Ministry of Agriculture has
already reorganized its Department of Agriculture (paras 1.16 and 4.01);
reorganization of the Ministry of Cooperative Development is also planned and
detailed proposals are being formulated (para 4.05). This report is based on
the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Kenya in November-
December 1978, composed of Messrs. Capoluongo, Egli, O'Hara, Rice, von Klaudy,
von Samson and Wijnand (IDA). Ms. R. Deen (IDA) participated in part of the
mission and Mr. L. Leander (IFAD) joined the team during the latter part of
the mission.
B. Agricultural Sector
2
1.02      Kenya, with a total area of 583,000 km , is a country of great
topographical, climatic and soil contrasts. The altitude varies from sea
level to over 5,000 meters and climatic conditions range from very dry in
marginal areas of the north to high rainfall in the forests of the south
west. The soils of Kenya's Central Plateau area are among the most fertile
in Africa, while those of the semi-desert which covers half the country have
very little agricultural potential. Kenya's population is estimated at 14.7
million (mid-1979) and is growing at the rate of about 3.5% per year; about
90% of the population is rural and depends on agriculture for a livelihood.
There are wide variations in population density, sometimes corresponding



-2-
more to traditional or colonial settlement patterns than to Ehe potential of
the land. Some areas have as many as 200 inhabitants per km , while others,
even some high potential areas, have much lower densities.  Kenya's 1978 GDP
in current market prices was estimated at about K Sh 40.8 billion, or K Sh 2,870
(US$383) per capita. The average annual income of the rural population is
estimated at K Sh 720 (US$96), including cash and subsistence.
1.03      Kenya's agricultural sector is characterized by wide variety
in systems of production which reflects the differences between ecological
zones and patterns of land tenure and population distribution. A broad dis-
tinction can be made between the large farming sector, including Government
farms, and the smallholder sector which employs the great majority of the
rural population. The Government defines farms of 20 ha and below as small.
There are about 1.5 million smallholdings in Kenya. Of these, about 50% are
less than 2 ha and occupy less than 4% of the cultivable land. Most small-
holdings are farmead by their owners. About 20% are considered experienced
commercial farmers, another 20% are in a transitional stage between sub-
sistence and commercial production, and the remaining 60% are subsistence
farmers. Maize is the staple crop but smallholders also produce beans,
coffee, sugar, tea, pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds, meat, milk, potatoes and
fruit. Large and medium-scale farms are larger than 20 ha, and they occupy
about 2.7 million ha (compared with 3.5 million ha occupied by small farms).
There are about 1,000 large farms with holdings in excess of 400 ha each, and
just over 2,000 medium-scale farms of 20-400 ha each. Virtually all production
systems for these farms are oriented to commercial markets and involve a wide
range of crops and livestock products. Wheat, sisal and maize are the dominant
crops on large and medium-scale farms.
1.04      During ithe period 1972-78 agriculture grew at an average annual rate
of 2.6%, in real terms, lower than the average annual growth rate of 4.2% it
achieved from 1964-73. Agricultural output also grew slower than the economy
and the industria:L sector, which grew at over 5% and 8% respectively during
1972-78. The share of agriculture in total GDP declined from about 35% in
1972 to 30% in 1978. Poor weather conditions and high prices of inputs after
the 1973 oil prices increases were the main reasons for the slow growth during
1974-76. This trend was reversed in 1977 when, as a result of the boom in
world coffee prices and good weather, agriculture grew at over 9%. In 1978
agricultural growth declined again to under 2% per annum, owing to the
cumulative effect of a drop in world prices for coffee and tea, and adverse
weather. Agriculitural exports, always the largest single sectoral contributor
to total exports, were K Sh 5,300 million (US$706 million) or 60% of total
exports of K Sh 8,830 million (US$1,177 million) in 1978. Coffee is Kenya's
main export crop, but other principal earners of foreign exchange are tea,
sisal, pyrethrum, dairy products, animal hides and skins, medium staple
cotton, wool, nuts, animal feeds and, in some years, maize. Kenya still
imports significant quantities of agricultural products, notably wheat and
edible oils.
1.05      With lilttle high potential land remaining uncultivated, the growing
population is app:Lying increasing pressure to develop lower potential areas
and forests, making action for effective resource conservation of paramount
importance. To achieve this, the Government is now emphasizing appropriate
soil conservation measures, especially in small farm areas, linked to re-
afforestation, long term development planning for marginal areas, and specific



-3-
schemes for ensuring the further intensified development of high potential
land by appropriate farming systems.
Livestock
1.06      Livestock is a major national resource.  There are an estimated
10.3 million head of cattle in Kenya, of which about 12% are improved dairy
cattle. The growth rate of the national herd is estimated at about 2%
per annum; the annual off-take rate at around 9%. Most small holdings have
some livestock and over half of Kenya's livestock are concentrated in areas of
high potential, where the cattle are kept for both meat and milk production.
About three quarters of the national herd is kept on smallholdings and settle-
ments, and the remainder are on large farms or are grazed extensively by
nomadic pastoralists.
1.07      Most regions are subject to tick-borne disease, in particular, East
Coast Fever. This is a major constraint on livestock production and affects
the smallholder sector more severely than the larger farms, many of which
have had their own dipping program for some years. There is legislation con-
cerning the control of tick-borne disease but organizational and management
weakness has prevented the establishment of a dipping program for smallholders.
Foot and Mouth Disease and Trypanosomiasis are also major hazards to animal
health.
1.08      Further constraints on livestock production are poor husbandry
techniques and the limited genetic capacity of the local Zebu cattle. This
has been recognised for some time, and Kenya has introduced artificial in-
semination programs which have proved particularly successful in Eastern
and Central Provinces. Effective genetic upgrading, however, is dependent
upon disease control, pasture upgrading and forage production. The concepts
of pasture improvement and forage production are new to the smallholder sector
and their value is not always appreciated. Overgrazing is common, and farmers
are not aware of the potential returns from brush cutting and pasture management.
1.09      The estimated population of sheep and goats is 12 million.  Most
smallholders have some small stock and they are an important source of
protein, particularly in marginal areas. Local breeds have low production
potential and veterinary services for small stock have not yet been developed
as far as those for cattle. Efforts are now being made, with assistance from
FAO, to improve breeds and husbandry techniques.
1.10      Of about 14 million poultry in the country, two million are improved
chickens and the rest are local scavengers. There were an estimated 60,000
pigs in the country in 1976, making them a relatively unimportant stock.
Apiculture was introduced to Kenya many years ago and many subsistence farmers
in marginal areas keep bees. Honey production has considerable potential as
a source of human nutrition and as a cash crop, but is limited at present by
lack of equipment and training.
Crops
1.11      Maize is Kenya's staple crop and it dominates the cropping pattern.
Over one million ha is under maize cultivation, about 90% of it on farms less
than five ha. The annual harvest varies from 1.3 to 1.8 million tons, most of
which is consumed by the farm families. The introduction of improved varieties
has led to steadily increasing production and surpluses in the last two years



- 4 -
(para. 1.39).  Production of oil crops, millets and pulses has not grown at
such a pace mostly because extension and credit services have been lacking and
because poor infrastructure makes the supply of inputs and marketing difficult.
1.12      The smallholder sector has diversified considerably since Inde-
pendence. Coffee, tea and pyrethrum used to be grown exclusively on large
farms but are now the principal cash crops grown by small farmers. Cotton
is exclusively grown by smallholders; production during recent years has
varied between 4,000 and 6,000 tons of lint, but in 1978 it rose to an
estimated 8,000 tons. This remarkable development is principally due to the
inputs, extension services and marketing facilities provided by the Government
of Kenya largely under IADP I.
1.13      Beans are the most important grain legume and are widely grown,
particularly in Rift Valley Province. In Coast Province the most popular
grain legume is green gram. Sorghum used to be widely grown, but was replaced
by maize. A reverse trend can now be noticed, however, and sorghum is being
actively promoted as the cereal most adapted to marginal areas. Rice is
grown only as an irrigated crop. Potatoes, in great demand from the urban
population, are widely grown in highland areas.
1.14      Tree Crops.  Most smallholdings have some backyard fruit trees for
subsistence consumption. Despite the general shortage of fuel, few farmers
grow trees for firewood. The papayas, mangoes and bananas grown on small-
holdings make an important contribution to the diet of rural families but this
subsector could be greatly developed and such development would have a favor-
able impact on the rural nutrition and health situation.
C. Government S,srvices to Agriculture
1.15      A number of Government institutions provide rural development
services. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) through its extension services
and the Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD) through a wide range of
services to cooperative unions and societies are the main Government channels
of assistance to the smallholder sector. Technical Ministries, such as the
Ministries of Works and Water Developm,ent are responsible for development
efforts within their field while the Ministry of Lands and Settlements imple-
ments policy on the redistribution of land and adjudicates land claims,
issuing titles. In addition, there arie a number of statutory bodies which
provide credit, processing and marketing facilities to their producers.
The Ministry of Agriculture
1.16      MOA has prime responsibility for agricultural development and is
organized in two Departments, Agriculture and Veterinary Services, and the
Development Planning Division (see Chart 1). The Department of Agriculture
implements policy and promotes agricultural production while the Department
of Veterinary Services provides health and breeding facilities for livestock.
The Development Planning Division is a support unit for both these technical
Departments and is the main link with the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Community Affairs, taking responsibility for all economic and planning matters
related to agriculture. The divisional structure of the Department of Agri-
culture was reorganized and simplified in early 1979 to allow efficient
allocation of manpower and resources to projects the Government wishes to
focus on. The technical divisions were reduced to five: (i) Scientific



Research, (ii) Crop Production, (iii) Livestock Production, (iv) Lancl Develop-
ment, and (v) Project Management and Evaluation which has overall responsi-
bility for management and implementation of ongoing projects, including IADP.
Scientific Research is now being further reorganized as an autonomous Agricul-
tural Research Institute.
1.17      Agricultural Extension Services.  Ministry headquarters is respon-
sible for overall policy decisions and administration but field operations
are directed by the Provincial Director of Agriculture (PDA) in close liaison
with the Deputy Director of Agriculture and are organized on a district basis
under District Agricultural Officers (DAOs). Provincial extension services
have a high degree of autonomy within certain limits set by Government policy.
In the past most extension agents specialized in specific crop production,
but since a major reorganization in 1976, extension agents have been acting
as generalists at farm level promoting improved management of the farm as a
whole. The Home Economics Branch comes directly under the authority of the
Deputy Director of Agriculture and its activities are directed mainly, at rural
women. Its current projects cover such fields as domestic hygiene, food
resource management and cottage industries. There are approximately 12,000
extension agents for both crop and livestock development; the number of
holdings per extension officer is about 230 on average. Since 1976, Govern-
ment policy has been to increase coverage in key development areas and upgrade
the calibre of agents, giving them better working conditions, particularly as
regards transport which has been a severe constraint in the past.
1.18      Staff Training.  Senior agricultural staff are now mainly educated
to degree level at the University of Nairobi. Intermediate staff are trained
to diploma level in Egerton College and technical assistants receive certifi-
cate level training at Embu or Bukura Institutes of Agriculture. In 1972, The
Ministry of Agriculture initiated a scheme designed to update the training of
all extension officers, particularly in the technology of crop and animal
production. The number of trained staff for agriculture is still far from
adequate and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future; however,
several active programs are underway to expand the capacity of the training
institutions and to make their programs more supportive of development efforts.
Assisted by the Fourth Education Project, (IDA Cr. 797-KE) the Ministry of
Education intends to expand the number of places in the Faculty of Agriculture
from 385 to 690 by 1981, to improve the range of graduate and post-graduate
courses offered there and to increase the number of places available at Bukura
and Embu Institutes from a joint total of 500 to 800 by 1983. The MiLnistry
also intends to increase the number of places available at Egerton College
from 650 to over 1600 by 1983.
1.19      Farmer Training Centers (FTCs).  FTCs are designed to introduce
farmers to modern agricultural techniques through residential courses normally
lasting two months; FTCs also offer in-service training for extension staff.
There are two FTCs at Eldoret and Nyahururu which concentrate on training
farmers, managers, and extension staff for large farms, and 36 FTCs geared to
the needs of smallholders, 24 of which are operated directly by MOA and 12 by
the National Christian Council of Kenya and other private agencies. The
Government hopes to establish FTCs in each of Kenya's 42 districts. Capacity
of FTCs ranges from 35 to 100 people per course. Each FTC has, in addition to
farm employees, about eight teaching and administrative staff. Each has a
demonstration farm varying in size from 25 to 1,000 hectares to assist with
training courses. FTCs also work through modern farms and demonstraition plots



-6--
in their district. They each offer 30 to 50 courses annually, reaching a
maximum of about 5,000 farmers and extension staff. In-service training for
extension workers is provided on a regular basis to update knowledge of animal
husbandry, crop extension and farm management.
1.20      Agricultural Research.  The Scientific Research Division of MOA has
main responsibility for agricultural research. Its Director is responsible
to the Director of Agriculture. The DLvision is directly involved in crop
research, including grasses and fodder, and manages facilities at research
stations which are! used for animal husbandry research. There are 24 research
stations in Kenya and up to now work there has concentrated on adaptation of
improved crop varieties, usually for the priority production of the area where
they were located. Major shortcomings of past research were neglect of food
crop development (except for maize and wheat) and of farming in drier areas,
failure to disseminate new techniques effectively and insufficient attention
to farm management methods. Under the current development plan, government is
trying to tackle these problems and IADP will be an important vehicle for
implementing changes in the kind of research done. Research on domestic
livestock is done by the Veterinary Services Department and by the Scientific
Research Division. Facilities at research stations are often shared with the
Scientific Research Division and joint programs undertaken. The Veterinary
Research Laboratory at Kabete was established in 1910 and for many years all
research on animal husbandry was done there.  More recently veterinary inves-
tigation laboratories have been set up at Nakuru, Karatina, Eldoret and
Kericho to decentralize diagnostic facilities. Not enough research has been
done on fodder improvement, range management or animal husbandry and breeding.
The 1979-83 development plan stresses these particular areas.
The Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD)
1.21      MOCD supervises the cooperative unions and societies providing them
with management advice. It consists of one Department which is headed by the
Commissioner for (Cooperative Development. The Commissioner has wide powers to
regulate the cooperatives, including the right to remove the Committee of a
society or replace it for a limited time, to enforce merger of uneconomical
societies, to ensure that expenditures are kept within approved budgets, and
to issue credit policies for the unions and societies. The activities of this
Ministry are central to the government's development objectives for agricul-
ture. Many of the rural poor are outside the cash economy and have no access
to commercial services. They rely on the cooperatives for input supplies,
storage and marketing.  The Ministry has had a serious manpower problem
because of its relatively unattractive grade levels and career opportunities;
staff frequently Leave for the private sector or for other Ministries. An
evaluation study was recently carried out in the Ministry following suggestions
made at appraisal and comprehensive proposals for structural changes have been
made. They are alt present under consideration and are likely to be adopted.
If this happens, M.OCD should be in a much better posture to provide financial,
planning and training services to the unions and societies in the field.
1.22      The Coolperative Movement.  The cooperative movement of Kenya was
initiated more than 30 years ago and has grown continuously since then. At
the end of 1977, there were about 1,4C0 active cooperative societies with a



-7-
membership of about one million families. The size of societies varies from
a few hundred to several thousand members. Their activities cover the whole
range of services from input supplies to wholesale. They also have housing,
savings and credit operations in some cases. The highest coverage is achieved
in Eastern, Central, and Nyanza provinces where about 30-40% of the rural
households are members of cooperatives. Coverage in the other Provinces is
much lower, it is only 7% of rural households in Rift Valley and almost nil
in North Eastern Province. The Cooperative Act of February 1977 spells out
MOCD's role in controlling and guiding the cooperative unions and societies in
both their policies and day-to-day operations. The Ministry's aim is to
develop and guide unions and societies until they are capable of running their
own affairs. Although the cooperatives in more advanced provinces are self-
supporting in manpower and finances, in the less advanced provinces there are
few unions and societies able to employ and retain suitable staff to manage
their increasingly diverse operations effectively. The main reasons are
inadequate training and unattractive conditions of employment. Training
programs have been geared to produce Ministry staff, and societies could only
employ surplus graduates when available.
Other Institutions Serving Agriculture
1.23      The Ministries of Works, Water Development and Lands and Settlement
are all engaged in rural development activities. The Ministry of Works Roads
Department started a Rural Access Roads Program (RARP) in 1975; when it is
completed, 15,000 km of road will have been constructed or upgraded in 23
districts. The Program is organized in construction units, one or more of
which are allocated on a district basis. The criterion for selection of a
district is accessibility into areas of high potential. Inaccessibility has
been a major constraint on development of many areas in the past; supply of
inputs, marketing of produce and the effectiveness of extension agents have
all been hampered by transportation difficulties. Construction methods used
are labor-intensive and rely on local materials. The Ministry of Water
Development initiated a Rural Water Supply Program (RWSP) in 1970 which aims
to provide the entire population with potable water supplies shortly after
the Year 2000. It is unlikely that this goal can be fully met since Kenya's
population is expected roughly to double by the end of the century, but a
majority of the people should nevertheless benefit from this Program. It is
estimated that about 13% of the rural population were supplied with adequate
drinking water in the period 1970/76. The Bank Group is supporting both of
these Programs: RARP under Loan No. 1305-KE, Credit No. 651-KE; RWS'P under
Loan No. 1637-KE. Under both Programs, it is the concerned Ministry which
selects the districts for participation and the district-level planning and
decision making is done by the District Development Committee (para 1.25)
which selects the tracks to be upgraded or the sites of the special purpose
roads and the water supplies to be constructed.
1.24      The Ministry of Lands and Settlement is organized in five depart-
ments: Lands, Settlement, Surveys, Adjudication and Physical Planning. The
Adjudication Department is responsible for adjudication of land rights in
Trust Land and for registration of titles to land and other rights. The
Settlement Department acquires land for Government sponsored housing and
industrial development. It also acquires large farms for settlement schemes
and allocation to landless small farmers. In these cases the Settlement



-8-
Department administers the subdivision and redistribution of the land and
undertakes development of the infrastructure and credit and marketing services
for agricultural development.
1.25      District Development Committees (DDCs).  In each district, the
Goverrment officers and local leaders together constitute the DDC. The
Government has long been committed to district development planning, but until
recently has lacked a mechanism for achieving it.  Following the establiskme bc
of the experimental Special Rural Development Program in six pilot areas in
1967, considerable experience was gained on the way in which local people
could participate in development planning; of particular interest was the use
of DDCs as forums for discussing local development matters. Consequently, it
was decided to establish a permanent DDC in each of the country's 40 districts,
under the chairmanship of the District Commissioner and with a District
Development Officer as its secretary. The Planning Department of the Ministry
of Finance and P:Lanning is responsible for preparing national development
plans and for routine planning matters. Every district will eventually have
a DDC with the capacity to produce a District Development Plan to be forwarded
to the Ministry of Economic Planning in Nairobi for consideration in formulat-
ing the National Development Plan. The DAO has a major voice on the DDC since
agricultural planning is the main task of most of the DDCs.
D. Agricultural Credit
1.26      Agricultural credit in Kenya is available through a number of
institutions in the organized credit market and individuals operating in an
informal market.  Little is known about the informal market, but significant
amounts of money seem to change hands, especially within the extended family
system. Many of these family members earn a living elsewhere in urban areas
and remit regular sums to help maintain their holdings. Four types of credit
institutions can be distinguished: (i) commercial banks; (ii) marketing
boards; (iii) agricultural credit institutions; and (iv) other institutions
which provide suppliers credit.
Commercial Banks
1.27      The commercial banking system in Kenya is dominated by three large
institutions: the Kenya Commercial Bank which is the largest and is Government
owned, the Barclays Bank International and the Standard Bank (Kenya) Ltd.
These banks provide wide coverage and the bulk of their lending is to large-
scale farmers, farming companies, and agro-industry. However, they also
handle an estimated 10,000 to 12,000 loans to medium and small-scale farmers.
Commercial banks charge between 9% aad 10% interest on agricultural loans.
Farmers generally borrow under short-term lines of credit for specific crops.
It is government: policy to emphasize small farm loans, but the high cost of
making small loans and the lack of dependable farm management are constraints
on increased lending to small farmers by the commercial banks. The Central
Bank controls the commercial banking system. It sets the maximum lending rate
commercial banks may charge and requires them to set aside at least 17% of
their net deposits for lending to the agricultural sector. At June 30, 1978,
total commercia:L bank lending to agriculture stood at K Sh 1,840 million
(US$245 million) or 17.2% of total deposits of K Sh 10,730 million (US$1,430
million).



-9-
Marketing Boards
1.28      Smallholders growing tea, pyrethrum, coffee and cotton often obtain
seasonal or medium-term credit from the respective monopoly marketing organi-
zations. Cash crop loans take up most of the funds. Farmers growing only
subsistence crops have little access to credit either seasonal or medium term.
Semi-commercial farmers can obtain medium term advances for the establishment
of additional acreage, and short term advances for the purchase of fertilizers
from the Marketing Boards.
Agricultural Credit Institutions
1.29      The Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC), and the Cooperative Bank
of Kenya Ltd. (CBK) are the principal agricultural lending institutions in
Kenya. They are the on-lending vehicles for a number of Bank Group financed
projects. Those projects include: Second Livestock (Cr. 477-KE), Group Farm
Credit (Ln. 1093 - Cr. 537-KE), Agricultural Credit III (Ln. 1390-T--KE - Cr.
692-KE), and Narok Agricultural Development (Cr. 858-KE) for AFC; and Small-
holder Coffee Improvement (Cr. 914-KE), for CBK.
1.30      The Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd.  CBK was established to stabilize
the financial resources of the cooperative movement (para. 1.22) and utilize
these funds for lending to the movement. CBK was registered as a Cooperative
Society in 1965 and as a Commercial Bank in 1968. About 1,000 cooperative
unions and societies are members and shareholders of CBK. They represent
about 80% of registered unions and societies. Only members may keep an
account at CBK.
1.31      CBK started operating in January 1968, with a capital of K Sh 255,800
and a Government loan of K Sh 214,000 interest free, repayable in 10 years in
equal semi-annual installments. Its lending program can be classified under
five categories: (i) production loans; (ii) crop advances; (iii) farm, prop-
erty and construction loans; (iv) vehicle and tractor loans; and (v) merchan-
dizing loans. Production loans are available to individual farmers through
unions and primary societies. Farmers may borrow subject to the approval of
the society's credit committee. The farmer's borrowing limit is set at 2/3 of
his annual production of cash crops handled by the society over the past three
years. Lending terms vary slightly among different programs; the average
interest rate paid by farmers is 10% per annum and the repayment period is up
to 18 months. Funds for production loans have been made available under
several government programs such as the Cooperative Production Credit Scheme,
and Smallholder Production and Services Credit Program, as well as IADP. Crop
advances are important in bridging the gap between harvesting and selling of
the crop. These loans benefit the unions and societies which deal with
cotton, maize, and coffee. Interest rates attached to these loans are 10%
p.a. and the repayment period is between three and six months.   These loans
are limited to 10% of the value of the farmers estimated cash crop production.
They can be available to the farmer up to four times a year, but on the
condition that his previous borrowing under this facility has been fully
repaid.  Farm and property loans finance the purchase of farms by Kenyan
farmers. Construction loans finance mainly cotton ginneries and coffee
factory construction and improvements; these loans are made to the unions and
societies at an interest rate of 8% p.a. CBK also makes loans for acquisition
of vehicles and tractors to the cooperatives. It advances 60% of t:he cost of



- 10 -
the vehicle and the borrowing society is required to raise the remaining 40%.
The interest rate for these loans is 10% p.a. and the repayment period is up
to two years. Over 90% of merchandizing loans made have been to the Kenya
National Federation of Cooperatives Ltd. (para. 1.36) to finance purchase of
farm inputs; the remainder consists of loans to cooperative societies.
Interest rates referred to in this paragraph are an indication of currently
prevailing interest rates. The Cooperative Act of February 1977 states that
Unions' Credit Committees must set interest rates between 8% and 12% p.a.
1.32      At June 30, 1978 CBK had K Sh 233 million (US$31 million) loans
outstanding and total assets of K Sh 569 million (US$76 million). Every year
since it began operations, CBK has shown a profit and paid income taxes. CBK's
profitability in fiscal 1978 was satisfactory, its liquidity high, and its
capitalization adequate. Past due loans at October 31, 1978 were equal to
38% of outstanding loans. About hali' of the past due loans were 1 to 90 days
in arrears. While those percentages are high, they do not accurately reflect
contractual extensions of loan maturities. Extensions are often granted to
societies and members informally for legitimate reasons and they are not
properly accounted for by the Cooperative Unions. In addition, creditworthy
Unions sometimes relend to their members the proceeds of loan collections,
rather than formally repaying CBK and reborrowing under the same credit
facility, because doing so would be 'Lengthy and cumbersome.
1.33      There are ten Directors on CBK's Board.  Six of them represent the
Cooperative Movement; four, the Government. The General Manager is the chief
operating officer and reports to the Board of Directors. CBK has two Depart-
ments: one has line responsibilities, and the other has staff support func-
tions. It employs about 55 people, 25 of whom are professional staff.
1.34      The Agricultural Finance Corporation, a statutory board, was estab-
lished in 1963 to assist in the development of agriculture by making loans
to individual farmers or to companies. It makes long term land acquisition
loans, medium term development loans, and short term loans to finance the
purchase of physical crop inputs. AFC loans are generally secured by land.
Repayment terms vary from one to 20 years. The interest rate on seasonal
credit is currently 11% p.a.; on other loans about 9% to 10% p.a. Loans
outstanding at March 31, 1978 were K Sh 470 million (US$63 million), 28% of
which was outstanding to small scale farmers. It is Government policy to
expand loan actiLvities through AFC to more progressive small farmers.
Other Institutions
1.35      The Kenya Farmers Association (KFA) provides credit for purchases of
agricultural inputs by members in good standing. Generally, such credits must
be settled within 30 days of purchase, but this term can be extended to 90
days for the most creditworthy members. Credit balances earn interest at 4%
per annum, and overdue items incur a. 10% per annum penalty charge. KFA works
closely with AFC in its credit and marketing activities. The Settlement Fund
and Kenya Breweries Ltd. also provide suppliers' credit to qualified applicants.
E. Commercial Services to Agriculture
1.36      A number of private comparLies, and cooperatives or statutory bodies
operating on a commercial basis are active in the agricultural sector. The



private companies are mostly engaged in trading fertilizers and chemicals for
crop protection. Acaricides and other veterinary chemicals are provided by
two or three long established chemical companies. They offer good support
services for their products by monitoring dip concentrations and through dip
attendant training courses. The Kenya Farmers' Association (KFA) with 36
branches and over 2,200 stockists is the largest supplier of agricultural
inputs. Though KFA is a cooperative union, non-members, especially the crop
marketing boards, also use its facilities. Spray chemicals for crop protec-
tion are mostly retailed through KFA which provides extension support for the
products it markets. Despite a history of good management, KFA had a deficit
in 1978 for the first time; this was due to Government policy on pricing and
marketing of fertilizer. In 1975 Government assumed responsibility for
importing and distributing fertilizer through the existing retail outlets
and a factory to meet national requirements was then scheduled to go into
operation in 1979. Since then, Government has reconsidered this plan and the
fertilizer factory is likely to be stalled at least until 1980. Government
restrictions on import and distribution of fertilizer have been lifted
recently.   The Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives (KNFC) was estab-
lished in 1964 to represent the cooperatives in their relations with the
Government. Its activities include radio broadcasting, news publishing,
training of junior staff, and issuance of property insurance policies for the
cooperatives. It initiated a merchandising branch in 1975 to expand input
supply coverage through the cooperatives. In October 1978, KNFC suspended
these operations pending a reorganization study. This decision was prompted
by liquidity problems arising from poor management and the inability to import
fertilizers. Funds under IADP I will be allocated to this study if KNFC so
requests.  The Kenya Seed Company, in which Government is a major shareholder,
is the major supplier of seeds.
F. Marketing and Processing
Livestock
1.37      Milk.  The Kenya Cooperative Creameries (KCC) markets milk at prices
which are fixed by statute and reviewed annually by Government. The farm gate
price paid to farmers can vary with handling costs and the profit margin of
the various cooperatives, but it is never as much as farmers can get on the
traditional market. Membership of KCC is about 4,000 farmers and 300 coopera-
tives. KCC receives about 90% of its membership's officially recorded produc-
tion, but only 15% to 20% of this undergoes processing and the rest is sold
raw. KCC has a large comprehensively equipped dairy in Nairobi and several
creameries in the principal towns. Most member cooperatives have operational
milk chilling apparatus. Infrastructure to handle milk marketed at present is
adequate. KCC recently had a surplus of dairy products, mainly due to recent
export restrictions to the EEC and Tanzania. Much of this surplus has been
converted into powdered milk because only limited quantities of cheese, butter
or yogurt are produced in Kenya.
1.38      Beef.  The Kenya Meat Commission (KMC) is the statutory meat-
marketing body but it handles less than 20% of all beef production. The bulk
is retailed through traditional channels where prices are negotiated according
to weight and quality estimates and are higher than the statutory rates paid
by KMC. KMC has a monopoly of beef exports. At present its abattoirs and
cooling facilities function at about 25% of capacity.



- 12 -
Crops
1.39      Maize.  In recent years, between 320,000 tons and 460,000 tons of
maize were marketed annually through the Maize and Produce Board (MPB) which
probably represents about 50% of total marketed production. From the maize
bought by MPB a strategic reserve of about 180,000 tons is maintained and the
rest goes for domestic consumption or (export sales. 1977 and 1978 were both
surplus years and much of this surplus could not be marketed because storage
and handling facilities were inadequate to cope with the extra quantity. MPB
has a total storage capacity of about .500,000 tons. Additional storage is
currently under construction with help from the U.K. and IADP I. Maize for
local consumption bought by MPB is sold to mills which process it into sifted
maize meal, mostly for urban consumption. The maize germ resulting from
milling was used in the past mostly for feed but now there are two oil mills
equipped to produce maize germ oil witln a capacity to process about 30,000
tons of maize germ per year.
1.40      Cotton.  All cotton produced in Kenya is marketed through the Cotton
Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB) which buys seed cotton from the farmers,
supervises ginning, delivers lint and seed to the terminal market and fixes
grade standards for cotton. The CLSMB distributes plant protection sprays and
cotton seed and carries on other extension activities through its branch and
sub-branch offices. There are 11 ginneries in Kenya of which three are owned
by farmers' cooperatives, five by private individuals and three by CLSMB.
Measures are being taken to transfer ownership of all ginneries to coopera-
tives. These ginneries have a capacity for about 70,000 tons of seed cotton
and are used at less than 50% of their capacity. Not all the ginneries are in
good working order, but CLSMB has started to train mechanics in gin fitting
and maintenance, to improve their efficiency. In addition, the Government is
preparing a project which would aim to rehabilitate the ginneries and market-
ing infrastructures. Cotton seed is sold to local oil mills. Kenya produces
only medium staple cotton but its industry requires supplies of short staple.
About 50% of cotton production is therefore exported and short staple cotton
is imported.
1.41      Oil Crop.  Until recently the edible oil processing industry in
Kenya crushed mainly locally produced copra and cotton seed. The increasing
demand for oils and fats was satisfied mainly through expanding imports of
crude palm oil and palm kernel oil which were refined in Kenya. In recent
years, as a result of the efforts of MOA and private oil millers, local
production of sunflower, rape seed and sesame has increased. The processing
industry has expanded in pace with the growing demand for edible oils, adding
about 60,000 tons of crushing capacity during the last six years. At present,
there are 12 oil mills in Kenya of which five are located in Coast Province.
Their current annual crushing capacity, geared to process locally produced oil
seeds, is of the order of 100,000 tons. In addition there is the capacity to
refine 30,000 tons of imported crude oil.
1.42      Pyrethrum and other crops.  There is a well established marketing
system for pyrethrum. Dry flowers are bought from the farmer and are analyzed
for pyrethrin corLtent by the Pyrethrum Board of Kenya. Pyrethrin content
determines the price the Board pays the farmer. The new factory at Nakuru can
process 35,000 tons of dry flowers a year and is under utilized at present
since 1978 production was only about 9,000 tons. Beans, green grams, sorghum
and rice are all marketed through private merchants or MPB and require no
processing. Potatoes are marketed through the Horticultural Crops Development
Authority.



- 13 -
II. INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. Program Background
2.01      During the decade after Independence in 1963, Kenya's agricultural
sector grew at over 4% annually. While a significant part of this growth was
attributable to large scale farming, smallholders growing export cash crops
in the better agricultural areas also contributed to it. More recentLy Kenya
has given higher priority to the needs of less privileged smallholders in
areas which have so far been largely excluded from the development process.
In the Third Development Plan (1974-1978) the Government aimed to widen the
basis of agricultural production and the social impact of development by
increasing output in the small farm sector. This policy is being further
developed in the Fourth Development Plan (1979-1983).
2.02       In 1971, the Government initiated the Special Rural Development
Program (SRDP). It was supported by bilateral aid agencies and coordinated
by the Ministry of Finance and Planning.  SRDP's objective was to test various
rural development strategies in selected districts. Its achievements were
mixed but valuable experience was gained. For example, it became apparent
that the Ministry of Agriculture was the only Government agency capable to
mobilize development in rural areas because no other agency could draw effec-
tively on the MOA's human resources, expertise and physical facilities.
The Smallholder Production Services and Credit Project (SPSCP) started in late
1975 with assistance from the United States. It has increased production but
has had management and financial problems. Experience gained with SPSCP is
proving useful in the design and implementation of IADP.
B. Program Design
2.03      The Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP) is Government's
principal vehicle for supporting small farm development. The objective is to
provide improved management services and facilities to increase the productivity
of smallholders who are largely outside the cash economy. Two important
features of IADP are the "whole farm" approach and decentralized planning and
control. The "whole farm" approach addresses all productive activities on the
farm rather than just single crop production activities. Decentralization
is achieved by making district level staff responsible for project planning
and implementation.
2.04      Through IADP, the Government aims to provide smallholders with a range
of services that would enable them to increase their production and improve
their standard of living. Apart from the installation and maintenance of
roads, water supplies, and other rural infrastructure, these services include
the provision of research, extension, and staff and farmer training, input and
output marketing, credit, price controls, and regulation of land title.



- 14 -
2.05      The Government has identified five projects as part of IADP.  They
are the Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (SCIP) and IADP I through IV.
Preparation of IADP I started in 1972, and implementation in 1977. Implemen-
tation of SCIP is starting in 1979. IADP II would be the next Project to be
implemented. Preparation of IADP III is planned to start in 1980; IADP IV, in
1981.
2.06      The design of each project includes the selection of the districts
to be reached within each province, and a preliminary indication of locations
likely to be covered in those districts. Detailed coverage and the phasing
of investments are determined in annual Work Plans which are formulated at
the District level. The program would be extended to all smallholder areas
which have a potential for development but have not yet received any Govern-
ment assistance. In phasing each project, however, priority is given to
areas which already have some physical and institutional infrastructures.
2.07      IADP is an ambitious program..  Over time the Government intends
that it should extend to rural areas inhabited by approximately one million
smallholders; up to one quarter million farm families would benefit directly
from IADP. It is estimated that they are all well below the poverty level
and that their incomes would increase substantially as result of their parti-
cipation in the program. IADP's estimated costs reflect the magnitude of its
goals. Implementation of IADP I was estimated to cost K Sh 288 million (US$38
million); SCIP, K Sh 497.5 million (USS62.2 million). The cost of IADP II is
currently estimated at K Sh 688 million (US$92 million). Some of these costs
could not be recovered directly from the beneficiaries because they would be
related to the extension of basic Government services, which are normally
provided free of charge. The Government, however, is prepared to make the
financial effort because it believes that the social and economic benefit to
Kenya will justify it.
2.08      Work to design IADP started in 1972 with assistance from the Bank
Group. In 1976, the Bank Group agreed to finance IADP I with a Loan and
a Credit of US$10 million each, which became effective in March, 1977.
The Arab Bank for African Development (BADEA) contributed US$5 million.
Delays in effectiveness and disbursements resulted in part from cofinancing
arrangements. In May 1979, the Executive Directors approved a credit of
US$27.0 million to finance SCIP. The Commonwealth Development Corporation
contributed to the financing with a loan of US$15.0 million equivalent.
2.09      In 1976, the Ministry of Agriculture created the IADP Management
Unit in the Land and Farm Management Division to carry out the program.
Project activities involving the cooperative movement (para 1.22) are the
responsibility of MOCD. Overall policy coordination is provided by the
IADP Coordinating Committee (para 4.04), an interagency body which is also
responsible for reviewing and approving IADP annual work plans. A Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit was established to feed information to the managers and
planners (para 4.22).
2.10      The District constitutes the basic field-level management unit
and a committee consisting of the District Agricultural Officer, the District
Project Coordinator, the District Cooperative Officer, the District Develop-
ment Officer, the Cooperative Union Manager and the AFC Branch Manager



- 15 -
approves district Work Plans, reviews progress, and receives monthly and
quarterly project reports from the District IADP Coordinator. Provincial
Commissioners, District Commissioners, Chiefs and Sub-Chiefs are closely
associated with IADP and are encouraged to advise Project staff and employ
their considerable local influence to support Project objectives.
C. Program Implementation
2.11      After two years of operation, a conclusive evaluation of IADP I
would be premature. IADP's most impressive achievement to date has been the
creation of a management system which provides a viable framework for further
development activities. Parts of the program have progressed more sLowly than
expected, and the performance of others has been unsatisfactory, but IADP's
flexibility permits the Government to adjust its design in the light of
experience. At IADP I appraisal, for instance, it was estimated that, for
every shilling spent on smallholder credit, 0.56 shillings would be spent
for infrastructure development including livestock services, marketing, and
cooperative development. It is now estimated that, for every shilling spent
on smallholder credit in IADP II, nine shillings would be spent on infrastruc-
ture development. This change in the IADP II investment mix is probably the
most important practical lesson learned from IADP I.
2.12      The performance of the IADP I smallholder credit component continues
to be poor; only 30% to 50% of outstanding loans have been repaid on time.
Bank/IDA supervision missions have identified several likely reasons for this.
CBK released credit funds late, which led to late delivery of farm inputs to
cooperative unions, societies, and farmers. Late application of inputs
resulted in lower yields than anticipated, and lower cash earnings from which
to repay the input loans. Better coordination between MiOA and the marketing
boards should result in better synchronization of the various physical invest-
ments. Problems related to Government pricing and trade policies developed
in maize and sunflower marketing. The high price of maize contributed to a
production surplus in 1978, which, with Government limitations on exports,
put a strain on available storage facilities. The situation has now improved;
the price of maize has been reduced (para 6.03) and Government has authorized
MPB to export substantial amounts. Sunflower prices dropped by about 50% in
December 1978 as a result of oversupply of edible oils following an unusually
high volume of cheap imports. The Government has already taken measures to
stabilize the local market.
2.13      During the first two years of IADP I, 33,000 farmers were expected
to borrow under the program. This target has proven too ambitious and the
attempt to reach it has put a tremendous strain on the concerned institutions,
especially the cooperative movement. Government has now reduced the borrower
participation target and is giving high priority to training and staffing of
cooperatives and to investment in physical facilities. To date, CBK has had
no branches in the field and only a small staff at headquarters; it therefore
had to rely on the cooperative unions and societies to control the credit
program, but they lacked the qualified managers and staff to do this. CBK
has agreed to open field offices in key IADP II districts. This development



- 16 -
would enable CBK to assist the Unions in setting up and supervising smalThol>
credit, and would help tighten up credit procedures as CBK would have the
authority to set conditions for the participation of each union in the credit
program (para 4.18).
2.14      The experience of IADP I has been particularly valuable in the
design of IADP II packages.  Almost 20 different packages have been devc) -
to suit different climates and soils as well as farmers' preferences. It is
expected that the crop packages would. continue to be refined as new experience
is gained. Apart from consideration of appropriate crop packages, limited
research activity has been undertaken by IADP I to date. This is now being
remedied by improving crop varieties, farm production packages, and growing
and handling techniques.
2.15      In the first two years of IADP I, a total of 13,000 farmers received
crop packages on credit. These farmers also benefited from specific training
courses and more coordinated attention from agricultural extension officers.
MOCD has increased its supervision and support of the unions and societies
serving these participants. The experience of the first year of IADP I
highlighted the need for more exact ]ocation specific crop packages as the
basis for successful seasonal credit operations. The design of crop packages
is now also giving more emphasis to the eco-climatic restrictions and potential
of different project locations. The coordination and timely supply of appro-
priate crop inputs has improved during the two seasons of IADP I operations
and the system for the forward bulking of orders through cooperatives is
making progress.
2.16      IADP I livestock development activities had a slow start but the
Department of veterinary services is now progressing with its dip take over
program. Extensions of the artificial insemination service in IADP I areas
have been planned and agreed, and improved cattle husbandry services are being
promoted under the guidance of the IADP Livestock Coordinator.
2.17      Experience obtained over tiwo years through detailed preparation of
proposed developments has resulted in annual Work Plans that are meaningful
management tools. The evaluation system, employing a total of 28 supervisors
and enumerators, has been operational for 18 months and is, therefore, only
now starting to provide information on IADP's achievements. IADP I has been
initiated in all of the locations originally intended. The system of recruitment
through identification, training of extension officers and farmers, and assess-
ment of potential participants has improved significantly with the accumulation
of experience at: all levels. In this respect, IADP I provided valuable indi-
cators for areas which required greater attention, such as the management
of cooperative unions and societies, and the design of crop packages better
suited to various growing conditions.
2.18      The main changes to IADP agreed during the IADP II appraisal relate
to the program's institutional arrangements. During the first two years of
IADP I, the Headl of IADP reported to the Chief of one of eight technical divi-
sions in the Ministry of Agriculture, the Land and Farm Management Division.
After the IADP II appraisal, the Ministry was reorganized into four divisions.
The Head of IAD]? is now the Chief of the newly created Project Management and
Evaluation Division (PMED) and reports to the Director of the Department of



- 17 -
Agriculture. The Head of IADP is now the principal line manager in the
Department of Agriculture and has the authority to draw on the technical
support of the staff divisions which have been consolidated. In addition, his
seniority would better enable him to establish his leadership with the other
agencies responsible for IADP implementation.
2.19      The cooperatives have been identified as the weak link in IADP
institutional arrangments, and the proposed reorganization of MOCD is there-
fore more extensive than that agreed for MOA. It would aim to strengthen the
cooperative movement by creating new positions and attracting more qualified
people to MOCD's headquarters, by providing additional MOCD field positions to
cater for IADP II needs, and by providing trained managers, staff, and physical
facilities to cooperative unions and societies participating in IADP II.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed Project would be the second phase of IADP, the Govern-
ment long-term program to develop smallholder agriculture (para 1.01). Over
about 5-1/2 years, Government would extend IADP to small farm areas of
Rift Valley and Coast Provinces, as well as to parts of four districts in
Western, Eastern, Central and Nyanza Provinces. IADP II is designed to
strengthen the Program's institutional set-up, refine its technical features
and improve physical infrastructure in the Project area. The Project would
have the following components:
(a) Development of livestock health, breeding and husbandry
services;
(b) Provision and distribution of incremental crop production
inputs;
(c) Provision of storage and transportation facilities and
staff for marketing of farm produce;
(d) Development, upgrading, and maintenance of rural access
roads;
(e) Improvement of domestic water supply in critical areas;
(f) Soil conservation and reafforestation measures;
(g) Rehabilitation of five small-scale irrigation schemes in
the Tana River basin;
(h) Expansion and strengthening of the cooperative movement;
(i) Development of credit services and facilities for small-
holders;



- 18 -
(j)  Improvement of extension services, and of training for
extension staff and farmers;
(k) Expansion of adaptive research and development of tree
crop nurseries; and
(1) Strengthening of IADP management, monitoring and evaluation.
3.02      The newly created Project Management and Evaluation Division in MOA
would manage the Project in close coordination with MOCD's Department of Coop-
erative Development. Management decentralization would be achieved by making
district level staff responsible for project planning and implementation.
B. The Project Area
3.03      The Project area is constituted by parts of Kilifi, Tana River,
Lamu, Kwale and Taita Districts in Ccoast Province; Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi,
Kericho, Baringo, West Pokot and Kajiado Districts in Rift Valley Province;
Kakamega in Western Province, South Nyanza in Nyanza Province, Nyeri in
Central Province and Embu in Eastern Province. The areas in these fifteen
districts are scattered and diverse. Together they cover 26,000 km and
contain a human population of over 1.5 million. Areas were selected for par-
ticipation in the IADP II against similar criteria to those applied in IADP I.
Areas selected were those where there was an unused potential for increasing
existing agricultural production and where there was a high concentration of
smallholder farmers largely outside the cash economy employing traditional
cultural methods. Such areas would riot have previously benefited from agri-
cultural development projects. Districts which already had an adequate
infrastructural network were chosen for IADP I, but with IADP II the develop-
ment thrust would be carried into areas much less endowed with roads, water
supplies and other essential services and which are relatively inaccessible.
The IADP II areas of four districts in Central, Western, Eastern and Nyanza
Provinces were not ready to participate in IADP I at the time of start-up.
They are included in IADP II to achieve a uniform pace of development in the
districts concerned. Map 1 (IBRD 14124) shows the location of Project areas.
3.04      Climate and Soils.  There is great climatic and ecological diversity
within the Project area. Much of the areas in Rift Valley, Central, Eastern,
Western and Nyanza Provinces is above 1,700 m and receives rainfall adequate
for crop production. Below 1,700 m rainfall decreases rapidly and crop
production becomes increasingly margLnal. In Coast Province, climate depends
largely on distance from the sea. Areas within 30 km of the coast are suit-
able for crop production with rainfall varying between 900 a-nd 1,200 mm year.
Further inland crop production is st:Lll possible but involves high risk of
failure. Map 2 (IBRD 14125R1) shows the different ecological zones. Soils
in the different parts of the Projeci: area can be broadly classed in three
categories. In high elevation areas of Rift Valley Province they are clayey
loams of high fertility. On the floor of the Rift Valley, soils are heavy
and not very fertile with a tendency to harden which makes land preparation
difficult. The soils of the Project areas in Coast Province are light and
easy to work, but in general less fertile than the high elevation soils in
Rift valley.



- 19 -
3.05      Water scarcity is a major problem in parts of Kwale and Kilifi.
Agriculture in the lower parts of Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet and West Pokot in
Rift Valley Province is also constrained by lack of adequate water supplies.
All Districts included in the proposed Project area have communications
difficulties and require rehabilitation of dilapidated roads and construction
of new ones.
C. Detailed Features
Livestock Development
3.06      In order to provide effective disease control in each IADP II dis-
trict about 600 new cattle dips would be constructed and about 650 rehabili-
tated. Dip investments would not be limited to the Project area, but would be
extended throughout the entire districts as necessary to complement existing
facilities. Each Project district would have sufficient dips to dip all cattle
once a week. The Cattle Cleansing Act, which makes dipping compulsory and
imposes restrictions on cattle movement from uncleansed areas would be applied
to each district once the required number of dips was operational. Disease
control would include compulsory vaccination against Foot and Mouth Disease.
Farmers would pay a K Sh 0.30 fee for each head of cattle dipped to allow full
recovery of operating costs of dipping at full development. The operation of
dips would require working capital support during the Project period and such
funds have been included in Project cost estimates. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that fees charged for dipping would be reviewed annually
and would be sufficient to cover the cost of operating the dips. A dipping
program in Coast Province supported by the European Development Fund does not
include a dipping fee during the start-up period and could present something
of an anomaly. Government has undertaken to eliminate discrepancies between
dip charges by January 1982, except as the Government and IDA may otherwise
agree. The principal investments would be for civil works; construction and
rehabilitation of the cattle dips; construction of dip sheds and district
stores. Other investments would be for incremental staff salaries and the
provision of 15 seven-ton trucks, two four-wheel drive vehicles, motorcycles
and other equipment.
3.07      A pasture improvement and forage production program is designed
to increase livestock production through better use of available natural
resources. During the Project period about 12,000 ha of pasture would be
improved on an estimated 7,500 farms. The extension service has already
successfully introduced forage cultivation in parts of Kenya ecologically
similar to the Project areas and this effort would be continued under the
Project. Pastures would be improved through proper maintenance including
brush cutting and fertilizer application. Formal training for participating
farmers would take place in Farmer Training Centers and be followed by a field
demonstration (para. 3.30). Where pastures are degraded to the extent that
they cannot be improved through better maintenance, they would be p:Lowed and
resown with improved grass varieties. Nandi setaria (Foxtail millet), and
Chloris guayana (Rhodes grass) have been successfully introduced and are
recommended. About 5,000 ha on 3,000 smallholdings would be resown under the
Project. Forage crops would also be promoted to feed dairy stock in the dry
season when there is no pasture grazing. The cultivation of Pennisetum



- 20 -
purpureum (Napier) would be recommended in the Rift Valley; Bana (a Sorghum
cross), on the Coast.  Both varieties have done well and can yield up to 8,500
kg. of total digestible nutrients per ha.  An estimated 7,500 ha would be
cultivated for forage by farmers suppltementing grazing in the dry season.
Nurseries would be established to supply splits for planting material either
on fields or on erosion prone slopes where they would also serve as an erosion
control measure. At full development about 7,500 ha of these grasses would be
cultivated on about 10,000 smallholdings for dairy production where no pas-
tures exist.  The main investments under this program would be for fencing and
fertilizer needed to establish the forage plots.
3.08      The existing artificial insemnination service would be expanded and
six new schemes acided to improve genetic production capacity through cross-
breeding. Crossbred cows have a production potential about four times as
high as their local dams. Semen of high milk yielding breeds such as Freisian,
Ayrshire, Jersey, Guernsey, and Sahiwal would be made available. Farmers
would pay a fee of KSh 1.0 per insemination with two repeats if necessary.
The fee is kept low to encourage participation. Project investments would
include the construction of small laboratories, offices, staff housing, and
crushes. Vehicles would be provided for inseminators. Additional staff
recruited to carry out Project activities would include two internationally
recruited artificial insemination experts who would supplement the inadequate
preservice training of inseminators by intensive in-service training.
3.09      Four sheep and goat breeding centers would be established, and two
existing centers expanded to sell farmers improved males for breeding. Each
center would cover an area of about 250 ha and maintain 200 improved females
and 12 males, all to be provided from existing improved flocks. The centers
would function as demonstration stations. Breeds to be provided would be
Galla goats and Dorper sheep for marginal areas, and Toggenburg goats and
Corriedale and Hampshire Down sheep for high potential areas. It is expected
that up to Project year 7, about 5,000 small stock owners would purchase
breeding males. IADP II needs for breeding males would increase from about
200 in Project year 1 to about 500 in year 7. Since the breeding centers
would not be able to satisfy the demand during the first four years, assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that participating farmers would
be supplied with breeding stock from the ongoing FAO Project and from already
improved flocks. The land for the breeding centers has already been identi-
fied and vested in the Government.
3.10      Apiculture would be promoted to increase the incomes of subsistence
beekeepers through increased sales of wax and honey. The beekeeping staff
of MOA would be strengthened and would identify new areas for promotion of
apiculture.  Potential beekeepers would be trained in a three week program to
be followed by short courses.  Two demonstration honey refineries would be
established, one each in Coast and Rift Valley Provinces. Hives, tools and
equipment would be supplied to farmers. Investments would be in the construc-
tion and equipping of the refineries including a four-wheel drive vehicle for
transport of honey in each case, incremental staff salaries and materials.



- 21 -
Farm Inputs Supply and Distribution
3.11      Agricultural inputs would be supplied to farmers in the Project
area by cooperative unions and societies. The principal inputs would be
fertilizer, pesticides, planting materials, and land preparation. Esti-
mates of requirements are based on IADP experience in similar ecological
zones, and agricultural production projections.
3.12      It is estimated that during the Project period about 80% of partici-
pating farmers would purchase incremental crop inputs on credit; 20% for cash.
The principal investments for this component would be the annual working
capital requirement which was calculated taking into account estimated annual
input requirements, payment and delivery terms, credit terms, and a 20% allow-
ance for late payments. This cost would amount to about K Sh 53.6 (US$7.2
million) million excluding contingencies.
3.13      In 1978 and 1979 commercial firms and KFA (para 1.36) have been
supplying inputs to cooperative unions under IADP I. The Government and the
Bank group, however, continue to support the view that KNFC, the apex coopera-
tive organization, (para 1.36) should be the principal supplier of inputs to
its members (para 4.11). Under IADP II, additional storage capacity, equip-
ment, vehicles, and staff would be provided to KNFC to enable it to resume its
merchandising activities. However, the precise specification and location of
these investments would be determined after completion of the reorganization
study of KNFC merchandising operations. IDA's approval of the recommendations
of the study would be a condition of disbursement to KNFC.
Storage and Marketing
3.14      Cooperative Unions and Societies.  A number of cooperative unions
and societies in IADP II areas have either insufficient or inadequate storage
and transport facilities to meet the marketing requirements of Project incre-
mental production efficiently. Additional stores would be built to store
members' produce. The average capacity of the stores would be from 200 to
600 tons and their design would be basic and simple. Each union participating
in IADP II would be supplied with a seven-ton truck to transport produce, a
medium size tractor to move farm products from remote areas and a motorcycle
to supplement the mobility of the marketing staff. Additional staff and
support services would be provided to operate these marketing services.
3.15      After extensive research, MOA has developed a maize crib which is
proving to be a successful low cost method of on farm storage. The crib has a
concrete base, wire mesh walls, and a tin roof. It has also proved to be an
excellent natural drying facility because the wire mesh lets the air flow
through and the tin roof protects the maize from the rain and collects the
heat. Materials for building approximately 200 demonstration storage cribs on
farms would be provided. The farmers would supply the required labor.
3.16      Maize and Produce Board (MPB).  Under the proposed Project, four
stores, each with 5,000 tons capacity, would be built at strategic centers in
the Project area for MPB. An additional drying facility would be built. It
would have a 10 ton per hour capacity and would serve the higher elevation



- 22 -
areas south east of Eldoret. Two trucks would be provided for Coast Province
and two for Rift Valley Province to establish MPB collection services for more
remote areas. Vehicles to transport managers and staff of the new stores
would also be provided. Construction of stores and provision of vehicles
would be timed wit-h the expected build up of Project incremental production in
the respective areas. Project provisions include incremental operating costs
of driers and vehiLcles, additional field marketing officers, storekeepers, and
inspectors.
3.17      Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board (CLSMB).  IADP I aimed at
strengthening the management and organization of CLSMB. IADP II would aim
at consolidating CLSMB's activities with the provision of the following
facilities: (i) two new branch offices in Malindi, Kilifi district, and Iten,
Elgeyo Marakwet district; (ii) ten stores of 150-ton capacity each, to be
sited at strategic centers not serviced at present; (iii) four seed handling
centers to concenitrate on supplying better planting material to all small-
holders in the Project area and ten four wheel drive vehicles to provide
mobility for field operations; (iv) ten seven-ton trucks to market Project
incremental production; and (v) light equipment, machinery, tools, spare parts
and the additiona:L staff to operate these new facilities.
Rural Access Roads
3.18      To facilitate input supplies for the Project areas, transport of
produce from farms to main roads or collection points and transport of exten-
sion agents and cooperative personnel, about 470 km of rural access roads
would be built or rehabilitated in five districts of Coast Province and in
four districts of Rift Valley Province (about 50 km per district for eight
districts and about 70 km for Tana River). Road works would be concentrated
in those areas where transport of produce or of agricultural inputs is parti-
cularly difficult. In Tana River District the roads would be built using the
same earth moving equipment used for irrigation rehabilitation (para 3.21).
The construction standards of the RARP (para 1.23) would be applied to all
roads built under the Project. The roads would be relatively short (5 to 10
km) and would be designed to carry only low volumes of local traffic. They
would be built on the line of existing tracks or low standard earth roads
and have a four meter carriageway with a one meter shoulder on each side.
Surfacing and draLnage would be such as to allow suitable vehicles to pass
all year round. ]Engineering required would be basic and simple, the field
engineers would provide the drawings. There is no overlapping with the
on-going Rural Access Roads Projects (Ln 1305-KE, Cr. 651-KE) or with the
Highway Sector Project (Ln 1684-KE). General maintenance of roads constructed
or upgraded under the Project would be labor intensive. Funds for maintenance
would be provided during the Project implementation period. The principal
investments would be for construction equipment, tools and vehicles and for
hire of labor.
Rural Water Supply
3.19      Small scale rural water supply facilities would be constructed to
supplement existing schemes or ones planned under the ongoing RWSP (para
1.23), which is partly being financed by the Bank (Rural Water Supply Program
- Ln 1637-KE). These schemes would be built in Project districts where lack
of water supply has been identified as a major problem. They would serve



- 23 -
about 19,000 people. The construction standards of the RWSP would be applied
to all schemes built under the Project. In addition, springs would be built
or upgraded in some districts of Rift Valley Province. Boreholes, water
treatment plants and springs would generally serve rural communities by
establishing communal water points. Roof catchments for individual homes
would be installed where climate permits and houses already have corrugated
roofing. Studies for water resource planning would be undertaken in some
areas of Coast Province. These studies would cost about K Sh 400,000
(US$53,000) and would be financed under the Project. Other principal invest-
ments would be for materials and civil works.
Resource Conservation
3.20      All districts of the Project area suffer soil erosion to some extent
and measures would be taken to combat this problem. MOA's Labor Intensive
Soil Conservation Program would be extended to cover the 38 administrative
divisions of the Project area. Simple erosion fighting cultural methods,
which individual smallholders can adopt, would be promoted and demonstrated
under this Program. In parts of Kwale, Baringo, West Pokot, Kilifi and Elgeyo
Marakwet, where erosion is severe, conservation works would be constructed.
Tools and equipment would be made available. Each division would be provided
with a clinometer, quickset level, measuring tape, folding ruler and line
levels, spirit levels and string bales. Mattocks, pick axes and other heavy
tools would be provided for heavy labor. Funds would be provided under the
Project to finance those soil conservation works which cannot be undertaken by
the farmers, such as digging cut-off drains and cutting waterways. Specific
provision would also be made under this component for training of extension
staff and farmers in conservation practices. Principal investments for
training would be the cost of transport and allowances for participants and
the costs of printing materials. Small tree nurseries would be established in
every division to provide seedlings for sale to farmers for reafforestation as
a stabilization measure in soil conservation and to meet part of their domestic
fuel needs. These nurseries would also produce bulk grasses to be used in
conservation works. In Kwale and Kilifi districts, where much reafforestation
is required, there would be two additional district nurseries. Funds would be
provided for the annual operation of the nurseries.
Small Scale Irrigation
3.21      Five existing small scale irrigation schemes with a total area of
about 300 hectares would be rehabilitated in Tana River District. The schemes
would grow rice. The area often suffers from famine or near famine; communica-
tions are very poor and there is a lack of trained personnel for agricultural
support services. The immediate need is to increase crop production and to
provide better access in the area. The five locations; Oda, Ngao, Hewani,
Wema and Mnazini are in the flood plain which extends southward from Hola to
the coast. Each scheme would have a resident pump operator and there would
be three managers for the five schemes. General extension and cooperative
services for marketing and input supplies would be established. A survey of
the soil and ground water resources of the area would be carried out to
determine its agricultural potential. The other main Project investments
would be: (i) a central office at Garsen for project management, (ii) a



workshop, also at                               -- tan:2:e 0a e'-        s
staff training, Kil fit-      :            -aco-u:-t sia    4Iv)  oLa:
earth moving equie-   - ;               - F<r    h e s:: b F    F (v) vehicles to
provide staff with access to tes-tii, Xvi, Lwo pumps, a pump nouse anr
housing for pumr -pe-r;ors       -'    -              tes^eme- d  'vii
salaries and allowances for add.licr` t    tafs  to -arry out Project actt.zi.
Cooperative Develoomern r:
3.22      To remedy the present weakness of the cooperative movement, M14OCG
would employ consultants to roview cooperative emplc-yent and make recom-
mendations on the settir.g R. p    a Co-onerative Service Commission, MOCD
would also assist eligible usr1o-s and societies to recruilt quall eid sta:if
under terms and conditions more compet-tItive than has hitherto li-:: the case.
Newly appointed union managers would ret-eive trai-ncing from management consul=
tants to be recruited internationally   it is estimated that nine uniors would
receive six months each of maa,geraert ,    portc  Project estimatas oF staff
required include a manager, a treasu.r-r and a credit supervisor for each
participating in IADP II and 2n' sociaty managers plus 90 support staff.
3.23      Seventeen new- sen-or posit.oD.s would be created and others be
upgraded at MOCD headquarters to reflect an increased level of qualifications
required and higher Job responstitles0   Salary structures anid career
opportunities would be improved to atzract better qualified staff.  Terms
of employment woluld be brought into line with those of. other Ministries for
comparable levels of qualification and responsibility. While these organiza-
tional changes would be necessary to support expansion in IADP II areas, their
implementation would strengthe,n the  4inistry's services throughout Kenya.
Project investments therefore would include only a pro-rated share of these
overhead costs, incremental staff an.d supporting facilities at MOCD's head-
quarters.
3.24      The Ministry would employ a total of 22 additional officers plus 23
support staff to work directly orn IAPP 1i implementation.  An IADP coordinator
at MOCD headquarters would be the counterpart of the Projects Management and
Evaluation Division Chief in MOA (para. 4.01).  He would be assisted by a
Deputy IADP Coordinator and by a Sen.or Financial Officer.  All other new
staff would be assigned to field pos-itions with responsibilities for planning
and management, accounting, savings and credit, and training, working closely
with staff and members of farmers' cooperatives in the Project area.  Other
investments would be for the incremental staff salaries and a total of 14
four-wheel drive vehicles, three cars and 11 motorcycles.
3.25      The proposed Project investments for cooperative development include
provisions for staffing and siupport senrices at settlement schemes in IADP II
areas at Ukanda, Tembo Springs, and Sabharwal in Kwale, and Lake Kenyatta and
Magogoni in Lamia.  In addition to these development provisions, planning funds
would be provided for Taita, Kilifi, Tana River, Baringo and Elgeyo Marakwet
districts. These funds would be used for a physical and soil survey, and for
staff development, physical planning, and presettlement development studies
in IADP II areas where settlement ha.s yet to be completed.



- 25 -
Credit Development
3.26      Availability of agricultural credit for purchase of inputs to small-
holders would be increased in the Project area by strengthening the field
operations of the CBK, and, to a lesser degree, those of AFC. About 95% of
seasonal credit volume to support Project activities would be channelled
through CBK and the cooperative system. AFC would be the onlending vehicle
for the remaining 5% of Project credit funds. These percentage estimates are
based on IADP I experience and on the relatively slow progress of land adju-
dication in IADP II areas as AFC would lend only to farmers who have obtained
title deed on their holdings. After the Project period, however, AFC`s role
in the Project area is expected to become gradually more important, as an
increasing number of farmers would have the option of borrowing from AFC by
pledging their title deed as collateral. It is Government's long term
objective to offer farmers the freedom of choice between borrowing from the
cooperative system and from AFC. Meanwhile, the two systems would complement
each other and meet different needs.
3.27      In order to assist the cooperative unions and societies to carry
out IADP II credit operations, CBK would open 12 field offices to ensure full
coverage of the Project area. Each branch office would be staffed with a
field credit officer and support staff, who would be provided with adequate
transportation, office equipment and supplies. Two additional credit officers
at Headquarters would provide coordination and support to the field operations.
They would also be directly responsible for field operations in each district
before a field office was opened. A detailed job description for the field
credit officers was discussed at negotiations.
3.28      The principal investments for credit development would be for
construction of office buildings, for means of transport (four-wheel drive
vehicles or cars as appropriate), for office equipment and for incremental
staff salaries and allowances. Incremental staff and support provisions for
AFC would be commensurate with the low volume of Project credit funds it would
onlend. A few field credit officers would be appointed to maintain the exist-
ing 1:250 ratio of credit officers to loans.
Crops, Livestock and Home Economics Extension Services
3.29      To reinforce the "whole farm" approach (para 2.03) and to support
extensionists in their new role as generalists concerned not only with crop
cultivation but with all productive farm activities, facilities would be
provided to strengthen the extension services of MOA and to give farmers and
extensionsists more training opportunities. Means of transport, four-wheel
drive vehicles, cars or motorcycles as appropriate, would be provided in all
Project area districts for extension and training officers. Alternatively,
officers would be eligible for loans to purchase their own motorcycle and
would receive a monthly operating allowance for it. Radio facilities would be
provided in Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Taita and Lamu to improve
communication. In Kerio Valley, Taita (lower areas) and Lamu (Lake Kenyatta),
prefabricated office buildings and staff housing would be erected and Project
funds would be used to acquire office equipment in all districts. Additional
field extension staff would be recruited to strengthen the service in Baringo,
Elgeyo Marakwet, Taita and Lamu and to carry out livestock extension and



training and scil conservation training through FTCs in all districts.  Prin-
cipal investments would be for civil works: staff housing, office buildings
and teaching facilities and for vehicles. equipment, operating costs and
incremental staff salaries.
Train:La
3.30      Provision would be made for re-equipping and operating Farmer
Training Centers in Project areas, including teaching and farm staff posts.
Two mobile cinema/training units would be equipped, one each for Rift Valley
and Coast Provinces5 and buses Twould be provided in four districts to bring
farmers to the FTCs. Two kitchen laboratories would be built at Embu and
Bukura training institutes to train Home Economics Branch staff in nutrition.
The activities o-F this Branch would be further expanded to promote new cottage
industries.  TDhe rural youth clubs would organize field trips, demonstrations
and training.  T_nds would be provided to cover IADP-related training costs
of the Cooperative Movement not covered by other programs; other investments
would be for ci-vil w,orks, vehicle purchase and operation, teaching materials
and incremental staEff sal2aries.  Cooperative training activities would be
coordinated with related activities under ongoing programs of MOCD. It would
be a condition oF disbursement for th.is supplementary training component,
estimated at US'400.000-- that MOCD prepare a detailed investment program
satisfactory to IDA.
Expansion of Adaotive Pesearch and Development of Tree Crop Nurseries
3.31      Applp-el research on cotton, sunflower and other oil seed crops would
be expanded.  Four internationally recruited agronomists, two of them plant
breeders, two economists, and four lccally recruited researchers would serve
for three to four years and would concentrate on breeding research, mainly
with cotton and sunflower. The plant breeders would be at Mwea Tebere Research
Station, the eco-nomists would assist research stations in the Project area in
carrying out farm systems research. The Project provides for trainee positions
at the Mwea Tebere Research Station and fellowships in universities in Kenya
and overseas. Principal Project investments would be for five senior staff
houses, ten junior staff housesg, laboratories, equipment, tractors and other
vehicles, technical assistance, and staff.
3.32      A Coconlut Rehabilitation Unit would be organized in Coast Province.
Headed by a senior agricultural officer, the Unit's team would include five
agricultural oficers and five agricultural assistants.  The team would be
provided with vehicles, facilities and equipment to enable them to implement
a rhinoceros beetle eradication program.  The Unit would also work to improve
husbandry techniques of some other tree crops, especially cashewnuts.  The
Unit would be responsible for establishing three new coconut nurseries and
rehabilitating t-wo existing ones.  In addition, two fruit tree nurseries, one
at Thika in Rift Valley Province, and the other at Mtwapa in Coast Province,
would be developed under the Project to produce seedlings for sale to farmers.
Each nursery would cover four hectares and would have a preparation and
storage shed, a pickup truck, a medium size tractor with implements and
watering facili-ies.  An additional senior research officer would be in
charge of each nursery, assisted by two senior agricultural officers and four
assistant agricultural officers. The principal investments would be for civil
works to develop the nurseries and nursery stores, for vehicles and equipment
and for incremental staff salaries, including technical assistance.



- 27 -
3.33      Tests would be carried out on farmers' natural pastures in both
Provinces to add to existing information on pasture legumes and grasses.
Present research would be expanded and tailored to the rainfall and altitude
conditions of the various Project areas. A research team would be established
headed by an experienced agrostologist (forage plant expert) to be recruited
internationally. He would be based at Kitale Research Station. The team's
terms of reference would be acceptable to IDA and would include: (i) pro-
viding an inventory of pasture improvement research so far completed, (ii)
establishing and carrying out a program of research and testing for improve-
ment of natural pastures using legumes, and (iii) making recommendations on
how to improve small farm natural pastures. The main investments would be
for planting material and equipment and for technical assistance.
Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation
3.34      The Project Management and Evaluation Division of MOA would recruit
a Project Coordinator, a planning officer, an administrative officer, a
systems analyst, and a senior accountant. Two IADP provincial coordlinators
and 11 district coordinators would be appointed to serve in the Rift: Valley
and Coast Provinces (paras. 4.01 and 4.02). Salaries for the above positions
would be part of Project investments under this component as would support
provisions in the form of vehicles for transport and office facilities and
equipment.
3.35      Statistical officers, evaluation staff, and field enumerators would
be recruited to expand monitoring and evaluation coverage to all IADP II
districts in the IADP farm surveys (para. 4.23). The principal investments
would be for means of transport, computing, and field equipment to monitor and
evaluate Project progress.
D. Project Costs
3.36      Total Project costs are estimated at K Sh 688 million (US$91.7
million), of which about K Sh 320 million (US$42.7 million) or 47% represents
foreign exchange costs. Details are summarized in the following table.



- 28 -
----K Sh '000-------   -------US$'0OO-------  % of
Project Component        Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total  Total
1. Livestock Development        55,000   69,000  124,000   7,300   9,200  16,500   23
2. Farm Inputs                  22,000   48,000   70,000   3,000   6,400   9,400   13
3. Marketing                    28,000   2:2,000   50,000   3,700   3,000   6,700    9
4. Rural Access Roads           20,000   17,000   37,000   2,600   2,200   4,800    7
5. Rural Water Supply            7,000    8,000   15,000       900   1,100   2,000    3
6. Resource Conservation        36,000   14,000   50,000   4,800   1,900   6,700   10
7. Small Scale Irrigation        3,000    6,000    9,000       400      800   1,200    2
8. Cooperative Development
and Settlement Planning  44,000   31,000   75,000   5,900   4,100  10,000   14
9. Credit Development           10,000    4,000   14,000   1,400        500   1,900    3
10. Agricultural Extension &
Training                    27,000   12,000   39,000   3,600   1,600   5,200    7
11. Research                     23,000   1.5,000   38,000   3,100   2,000   5,100    7
12. Management, Monitoring
and Evaluation              10,000    3,000   13,000   1,300        400   1,700    2
Total                285,000  249,000  534,000  38,000  33,200  71,200  100
Contingency Allowances
Physical                    13,000   14,000   27,000   1,700   1,900   3,600
Price                       70,000   57,000  127,000   9,300   7,600  16,900
Total Contingencies       83,000   71,000  154,000  11,000   9,500  20,500
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    368,000  320,000  688,000  49.000  42,700  91,700
Project costs were! estimated at prices expected to prevail in December 1979.
A physical contingency of 10% was applied to all civil works and equipment
related costs to reflect uncertainty on the quantities of Project invest-
ments. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs were applied at
the rate of 7% per annum for equipment and technical assistance, and 6% per
annum for other Project costs. Price contingencies for local costs were
applied at the rate of 10% per annum for 1980-1982, and at the same rates as
for foreign exchange costs thereafter (Table 1). These rates reflect current



- 29 -
estimates of price increases in Kenya and worldwide. Taxes and duties on
Project goods and services are estimated at K Sh 55 million, which represents
import taxes and duties on goods and services not eligible for exemption from
customs, and taxes and duties on fuel and other operating costs. The phasing
of Project investments is summarized in Table 1.
E. Financing
3.37      The financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
K Sh      US$        _
---million---
Government of Kenya                           122       16.4         19
Farmers                                        38        5.0          6
IFAD 1/                                       128       17.0        20
IDA                                           345       46.0        55
Total Costs (excluding taxes & duties)        633       84.4       100
Taxes and duties                               55        7.3
Total Project Costs                           688       91.7
3.38      The proposed Credit of US$46.0 million to the Kenya Govermnent
would be on standard IDA terms. The Credit would finance about 55% of net
Project costs, including 73% of foreign exchange costs and 30% of local
expenditures.
3.39      The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would
finance US$17 million or about 20% of Project costs net of taxes and duties
jointly with IDA; farmers, 6%; and the Government, 19%. Retroactive financing
of up to US$1.9 million is recommended under the IDA Credit for spec:Lfic
expenditures incurred between December 1, 1978 and the date of Credit signing;
these funds would be required to finance some preliminary studies, the con-
struction of stores and offices, and the purchase of essential vehicles and
equipment, acaricides and fertilizers. Details are set out in Table 2.
3.40      Project funds for livestock development, road development under the
responsibility of MOA, resource conservation, small scale irrigation, agri-
cultural extension, training and research, management, monitoring and evalua-
tion would be allocated to the MOA budget. The Government would contribute
funds to KNFC, MPB, CLSMB, unions, and societies for store construction on a
grant basis. Selected unions and societies would borrow the funds necessary
to purchase vehicles (para 3.14) from CBK on standard terms (para 1.31).
Funds for rural water supply would be allocated to the Ministry of Water
Development. Funds for cooperative development (paras 3.22 through 3.25)
1/   IFAD wishes to contribute SDR's 13.0 million.  In September 1979, the
exchange rate was SRD 1 = US$1.30903.



- 30 -
would be allocatedi to the budget of MOCD, and of the Ministry of Lands and
Settlement (paras. 3.25 and 4.17). The Treasury would grant CBK and AFC the
funds needed to fiLnance IADP II credit development investments (para 3.28).
3.41      CBK would finance credit sales of seasonal inputs to small-
holders in the Project area acting as a financial intermediary between the
KNFC, and the cooperative unions. KNFC would maintain a current account with
CBK for IADP II transactions and would be granted a medium term revolving line
of credit from CBKC. CBK would also extend a medium term revolving line of
credit to each uniLon participating in IADP II subject to its approval of the
union's creditworthiness. The unions would open a separate current account
with CBK for IADP II transactions. KNFC physical input purchases would be
financed with advances under the CBK revolving line of credit. The Treasury
would fund CBK's revolving line of credit to KNFC with a stand-by term loan.
Upon delivery of farm inputs from KNFC to a union, CBK would credit advances
to KNFC and debit advances to the Union; KNFC would credit inventory and debit
advances from CBK; the Union would debit inventory and credit advances from
CBK. Unions would then deliver the input packages on credit to the societies,
which in turn would sell them on cash or credit terms to their members.
Before the reorganization of KNFC (para 3.13), Unions would procure farm
inputs from other suitable suppliers under MOCD supervision, with CBK finan-
cing. AFC onlending arrangements would be simpler, because it would lend
directly to participating farmers through its branches. It also would fund
itself with a stand-by term loan from the Treasury.
3.42      Seasonal input loans to farmers would have a maturity of nine
to eighteen months depending on the crop being financed. CBK's commitment
under revolving lines of credit to KNFC and the Unions would expire in five
years and would be renewable. Societies would charge farmers a net interest
spread of 1% p.a. over their cost of funds. A penalty fee would be charged
to farmers for late payment. Unions would charge societies 1% p.a. over
their cost of funds. CBK would charge unions and KNFC on their revolving
lines of credit 3.,5% p.a. over its cost of funds. AFC would charge its bor-
rowers 5.5% p.a. over its cost of funds. AFC's spread would be higher than
that of CBK because, unlike CBK, it lends directly to farmers and its admin-
istrative costs are higher than those of CBK. The above interest spreads
are consistent with the existing structure of agricultural interest rates in
Kenya and would allow the financial intermediaries involved to cover their
costs and earn a reasonable profit. It should be stressed, however, that
Government aims at making available institutional agricultural credit to
smallholders who do not, now, have any access to it. To develop a credit
infrastructure where one does not exist, involves some costs and Government
has decided to meet those out of its budget. Therefore the costs of Credit
and Cooperative Development would not be recovered during the Project period
as they would be passed on to CBK and AFC (paras 3.26 through 3.28), and to
the Cooperative movement as grants (paras 3.22 through 3.25). The interest
rate on the stand--by term loans from the Government to CBK and AFC would be
5.5% p.a. The interest rate charged to farmers on seasonal input loans would
therefore be 11% p.a. Interest rates im Kenya have been virtually unchanged
for several years and there is a growing concern that the Government should



- 31 -
adopt more active monetary and credit policies, to respond to a changing
domestic and international economic environment. In May 1979, the Government
undertook to review the current and future level and structure of interest
rates, in particular those relating to lending in the agricultural sector.
In this review, to be completed by the end of 1979, the Government aims to
ensure that interest rate policies are consistent with the objectives of the
Development Plan. The Government, after consulting with IDA, would apply any
relevant change in general interest rates implemented as a result of the
review to this Project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government would include the above lending terms and conditions in the Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreements between the Government and CBK and between the
Government and AFC. The execution of Subsidiary Financing Agreements satis-
factory to IDA would be conditions of credit disbursement to CBK and to AFC.
F. Procurement
3.43      Civil works contracts for resource conservation (US$5.5 million),
dip construction and rehabilitation (US$5.0 million), construction of stores,
offices, and housing (US$5.0 million), road development in Lamu, Kajiado, and
Taita districts (US$2.5 million) and water supply schemes (US$0.7 million)
which, due to their dispersed locations, would be unlikely to attract inter-
national competitive bidding would be carried out by local contractors to be
selected under local competitive bidding procedures which were examined during
appraisal and are satisfactory. Procurement of vehicles (US$6.1 million),
livestock equipment (US$1.7 million), earth moving equipment for roads develop-
ment and irrigation rehabilitation (US$1.2 million), water supply equipment
(US$1.1 million), and fertilizers and pesticides (US$11.9 million) would,
except as mentioned below, be by international competitive bidding, following
Bank/IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked to the maximum extent possible.
Qualified domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference in bid evalua-
tion of 15% of the CIF price, or the existing rate of duty, whichever is
lower. Before the reorganization of KNFC is complete (para 3.13), fertilizers
and pesticides would be ordered in small quantities, and bulking would be
difficult; therefore orders of up to US$100,000 would be procured in accordance
with local procedures which are satisfactory. About one half of the orders
for vehicles would be fragmented among various agencies over the project
period. It is estimated that such orders would aggregate about US$600,000 for
unions or societies, and about US$2.5 million for other agencies. Orders of
up to US$100,000, up to the above aggregate limits, would be procured in
accordance with Government procedures. Orders of up to US$25,000 for other
goods would be procured in accordance with local procedures, up to an aggre-
gate limit of US$100,000. Contracts for the procurement of acaricides and
chemicals (US$8.5 million) would be negotiated individually, after inviting
quotations from each eligible supplier. The award would be to one or more
such suppliers subject to IDA approval. There are now three suppliers of
proprietary brands used in the Project area, and the Veterinary Department
requires that the same proprietary brands be used until tick resistance to
those brands develops. Construction of roads in Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet,
Kilifi, Kwale, and West Pokot (US$2.7 million) under the responsibility of the



- 32 -
Special Projects Branch of the Ministry of Works Roads Department would be
implemented according to the same procurement procedures as those agreed
between the Government and the Bank Group under the Rural Access Roads Project
(Loan 1350-KE Credit 651-KE). Technical assistance contracts for development
studies, technical surveys, and management consultancies financed under the
Project (US$4.3 million) would be entered into on terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA.  The average unit cost of Technical assistance is estimats. c-
about US$7,500 per staff/month.
G. Disbursements
3.44      IFAD and IDA would disburse pari passu against all Project expendi-
tures to be financed from external sources other than items to be financed
retroactively (para 3.39). IFAD's share would be 28%; IDA's 72%. Funds are
expected to be disbursed under Annual. Work Plans according to the following
schedule:
IDA Credit   IFAD Loan
----- US$ million
(a)  89% of total expenditures for civil works and
road development                                       12.5        4.5
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures and 89% of local
expenditures for vehicles and equipment                 5.5        2.0
(c)  75% of foreign expenditures and 55% of local
expenditures for fertilizers and pesticides             5.5        2.0
(d)  68% of foreign expenditures and 42% of local
expenditures for acaricides and chemicals               3.0         1.0
(e)  55% of operating costs, including staff salaries    12.0           4.5
(f)  100% of foreign expenditures and 89% of local
expenditures for technical assistance, studies,
and consultancies                                       2.5         1.0
(g)  An unallocated amount additional to the
above categories and transferable to them as
required                                                5.0        2.0
TOTAL                                           46.0        17.0
3.45      Disbursements against (a) except for RIARP roads (para 3.43), (b),
(c), (d) and (f) would be fully documented. Disbursements against (a) for
RARP roads and (e) would be made against statements of expenditure, the
documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA but would be retained
by the Borrower for inspection by supervision missions. An estimated schedule
of IDA disbursements is given in Table 5.



- 33 -
H. Accounts and Audit
3.46      The IADP Financial Controller in the Project Management and
Evaluation Division (para. 4.01) would establish and maintain adequate books
and records of the receipts and payments in respect of the Project, and the
assets and liabilities created by Project transactions, in such a way as to
enable separate identification of all Project accounts from other MOA accounts.
He would prepare Semi-annual Reports and submit them to the IADP Coordinating
Committee (para 4.04). Similarly MOCD, the Ministry of Works, the Ministry
of Water Development, the Ministry of Lands and Settlement, CBK, AFC, MPB,
the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board, KNFC and the cooperative unions and
societies involved in the Project would maintain separate Project accounts.
3.47      The responsibility for auditing Government ministries rests with
the Auditor General. The statutory bodies are audited by independent account-
ing firms. The accounts of cooperative unions and societies are audited by
the Audit and Accounts Division of the Department of Cooperative Development,
which is currently understaffed. Cooperative unions and societies, however,
may employ independent accounting firms with MOCD approval and would be
required to do so if MOCD staff cannot meet the deadline. The above arrange-
ments are satisfactory. Assurances were obtained from Government at nego-
tiations that (i) separate Project accounts would be maintained (para. 3.46);
(ii) the accounts prepared by the IADP financial controller would be forwarded
to IDA, not later than six months following the end of the financia:L year
to which they relate; (iii) independent auditors acceptable to IDA would
continue to be appointed to audit Project related entities and accounts;
and (iv) arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be made for the audit of
expenditures made against a certificate of expenditures (para. 3.45).
I. Environmental Impact
3.48      Project investments would have a positive environmental impact
through a number of Project sponsored activities. Forage production would
have a beneficial side effect of helping to control soil erosion since forage
grasses would be planted on slopes which are at present being eroded. Similar-
ly, the practice of feeding sheep and goats on the farm instead of on over-
grazed pasture as is the case at present would further assist efforts to
control soil erosion.
3.49      Project investments and extension programs would actively encourage
the reversal of the present soil erosion problems by strengthening the Labor
Intensive Soil Conservation Program. Seedlings for distribution to farmers
would be provided from tree nurseries to be established under the Project.
An important element of extension programs would be the encouragement of
agricultural practices aimed at reducing soil erosion, including contour
planting, proper rotations and development of grass strips and cut-off drains
(para 3.20).



- 34 -
3.50      The recommended fertilizers and pesticides are not expected to have
any adverse environmental effects. The recommended acaricides are organiphos-
phates which have. a tolerable residual toxicity, lower than organichlorides
which were used in the past.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Management and Staffing
4.01      Overall responsibility for IADP implementation would rest with the
newly created Project Management and Evaluation Division of MOA (para 1.16.)
The Ministry's recent reorganization aimed at strengthening and upgrading
project management and implementation functions, and streamlining technical
services. These changes were made primarily in view of IADP II increased
management requirements to broaden the IADP concept and bring several new
components into the program. MOCD would be the principal partner of MOA in
the implementation of IADP, and an Assistant Commissioner would be appointed
to work closely with the Chief of the Project Management and Evaluation
Division. These two officials would have policy and coordinating respon-
sibility at the national level, but day-to-day Project management respon-
sibility would be delegated to the Project coordinator and Provincial IADP
coordinators reporting to the Chief of the Project Management and Evaluation
Division.
4.02      At the field level IADP district coordinators would be responsible
for ensuring the smooth implementation of IADP II. Working closely with the
DDCs (para. 1.25), they would prepare annual work plans and review progress.
The implementation of the Project at farm level would be achieved by extension
staff dealing with groups of farmers in each sub-location.
4.03      Specific Project implementation programs would be based on detailed
annual work plans. The annual work plan preparation would start in October
in each IADP II district. It would be consolidated at MOA in Nairobi in
January and February, then submitted to other implementing Ministries and
agencies for review and comments and presented by April 15, about three months
before the beginning of the fiscal year to the IADP Coordinating Committee
(para. 4.04) for their approval. While the Project Management and Evaluation
Division of MOA would be responsible for presenting the IADP II annual work
plan to the IADP Coordinating Committee, the Ministries of Agriculture and
Cooperative Development would work closely together during the entire planning
and review process. A planning officer in the Project Management and Evalua-
tion Division (para 3.34) would be responsible for all staff functions related
to the preparation of IADP II annual work plans and reviews. An administra-
tive officer (para 3.34) would report to the IADP financial controller and
would be responsible for IADP II financial, and administrative operations,
including procurement, disbursements, reporting, and audit requirements.
Other agencies concerned would provide their support as needed. They would
appoint one senior level official to be primarily responsible for IADP imple-
mentation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would



- 35 -
submit the draft work plan to IDA for review and comments before it is pre-
sented to the IADP Coordinating Committee, no later than March 1st of each
year, beginning in 1980. The approval of the IADP Coordinating Committee
would be a condition of disbursement for the period and investment categories
to which each plan related.
4.04      To ensure IADP coordination at the highest level, the Government
and the Bank Group agreed during IADP I negotiations in 1976 to establish
the IADP Coordinating Committee. The Committee is chaired by the Permanent
Secretary of MOA and its members represent all the institutions concerned
with IADP implementation. The Chief of Project Management and Evaluation
Division has the authority to call Committee meetings from time to time,
but at least twice a year to review progress, approve Semi-annual Reports
(para. 3.46), and resolve possible interagency conflicts. By April 15 of
each year, it must meet to review and approve work plans. With IADP II,
new components would be introduced into the program and the Government would
extend the Committee's membership to include representatives of the agencies
responsible for the implementation of those new components, that is the
Ministry of Lands and Settlement, the Ministry of Works, and the Ministry of
Water Development. The revised composition, and terms of reference of the
Committee were agreed to at negotiations.
4.05      The Project's institutional arrangements require significant changes
from MOCD's existing organizational structure. At negotiations, the Govern-
ment has undertaken to strengthen MOCD to enable it to carry out those parts
of the Project for which it is responsible. To this end, proposals for the
reorganization of MOCD would be developed by March 30, 1980, and a detailed
plan be approved in agreement with IDA by September 30, 1980; this plan would
include recommendations on MOCD's organization and administrative structure,
as well as the number, grading and responsibilities of its staff. The plan
would be implemented in accordance with an agreed schedule.
Staffing
4.06      Approximately 980 new staff would be required to carry out the
Project. They would be mainly dip attendants and other junior staff who
are readily available. Table 6 shows the distribution of new staff among
the various Project implementing agencies. Planning for the recruitment of
the senior Project staff required has already started and their job descrip-
tions were agreed to at negotiations. Technical assistance requirements
would be as follows: (i) two internationally recruited artificial insemina-
tion experts (para 3.08); (ii) four internationally recruited agronomists,
and two economists (para 3.31); and (iii) an agrostologist to head the pasture
improvement and fodder production research team (para 3.33). Consultancies
would be needed for the following periods and purposes: (i) six man months
for studies on the water resources of dry areas in Coast Province (para 3.19);
(ii) nine man-months for studies of a survey of the soil and ground water
resources and agricultural potential of the Tana River flood plain (para
3.21); (iii) twenty man-months for a study of cooperative employment and 54
man-months of management consulting to Cooperative Unions (para 3.22); and
(iv) thirty man months for studies on settlement planning; physical and soil
surveys, staff development, physical planning, and presettlement planning



- 36 -
(para 3.25).  Consultants may also be employed by the Roads Department (para
4.13), and by the Water Department (para 4.14) to supervise the work of
contractors.  Assurances were received at negotiations that the terms of
reference for all technical assistants and consultants engaged under the
Project would be submitted to IDA for approval.
B. Management of Project Components
4.07      Livestock Development.  Responsibility for building, rehabilitating,
and operating livestock dips would rest with the Department of Veterinary
Services of MOA. Suppliers of acaricides would continue to provide assistance
to the Veterinary Department in training dip attendants, monitoring dip wash
concentration, emptying and refilling the dip tanks, and taking corrective
action if ticks develop resistance. The Veterinary Department would also be
responsible for carrying out the Project's artificial insemination program.
The IADP coordinator in the Veterinary Department of MOA would continue to
provide the management link with the Project Management and Evaluation
Division. Farmers would be responsible for building simple artificial
insemination crushes.
4.08      The promotion and propagaticon of grass splits among smallholders
would be the responsibility of the extension service (para 3.07). Grass
splits are available throughout the Project areas from farms, demonstration
lots, seed and forage stations, and some veterinary posts. MQA field extension
staff would also be responsible for promotion of pasture improvement, fencing,
and proper calf rearing methods.
4.09      The Animal Production Branch of the Livestock Production Division
in the Ministry of Agriculture (Chart I) would implement the sheep and goats
improvement program, and establish the Project's breeding centers in coopera-
tion with the ongoing FAO sheep and goat development project (para 3.09).
Under the FAO project, which started in 1972, technical assistance was pro-
vided to train staff of the Animal Production Branch.
4.10      The Beekeeping section of the Animal Production Branch would promote
apiculture (para 3.10). The Rift Valley and Coast Provincial IADP coordina-
tors would each decide the site of one honey refinery, after consulting with
the Beekeeping section on the technical feasibility. MOA would install and
operate the honey refineries as pilot schemes. There are several simple,
standard honey retfineries in operation in Kenya and the same design and
technology would be adopted in IADP II.
4.11      Farm Input Supply.  KNFC (para 1.36) is Government's preferred
vehicle for the supply and distribution of physical crop inputs to small-
holders because the self-help nature of the cooperative system makes it
possible to provide a direct and reliable system at low cost. The private
sector can effectively meet the unions' demand for input supplies in the
short term, but, as IADP moves into more remote areas, the need for additional
supply lines becomes obvious and the Government intends to arrange for these
by reorganizing FNFC's merchandising branch on a sound footing. While the
general requirements are clear, specific investments needed to re-establish



- 37 -
these merchandising activities would be detailed in the study to be carried
out (para 1.36). It would be a condition of Credit disbursement to KNFC that
the reorganization study had been completed and its recommendations submitte.-
to IDA for approval.
4.12      Marketing.  Overall planning, location, and programming of proposed
store construction would be carried out by the Ministries of Agriculture and
Cooperative Development in close collaboration with the DDCs. The Cooperative
unions and societies, CLSMB and MPB would be responsible for setting up and
operating the Project's additional marketing facilities (paras 3.16 and 3.17).
Stores and other permanent structures would be of simple standard design and
the building plans would be reviewed and approved by the appropriate Government
technical services according to established procedures which are satisfactory.
4.13      Rural Access Roads.  Planning, location and programming of proposed
road construction and upgrading would be carried out in close collaboration
between the Ministry of Agriculture, the Roads Department of the Ministry of
Works and the DDCs (para. 1.25). The microlocation of these roads would be
specified in the annual IADP workplans (para 4.03). In West Pokot, Elegeyo-
Marakwet, Baringo, Kwale, and Kilifi districts the Special Projects Branch of
the Roads Department would use Project funds to build IADP II roads in accord-
ance with construction standards of the Rural Access Road Program (para 1.23).
The Ministry of Works would administer and supervise construction, and maintain
roads in these districts as part of RARP during project implementation. In
Kajiado, Taita and Lamu construction during the Project period would be carried
out by contractors, because the Ministry of Works faces ever increasing respon-
sibilities in maintaining existing classified roads, and has limited facilities
for such work in those districts. Engineering standards, technical specifica-
tions, and guidelines for improwvement works, including plans and tender docu-
ments would be prepared by the Roads Department, with assistance if necessary
from consulting engineers selected with terms of reference satisfactory to
IDA. The Roads Department would review and approve contractors' technical
proposals; the consulting engineers would supervise construction, improvement,
and maintenance works. The Roads Department would undertake these works on
the basis of an agreement for technical services to be provided and cost
reimbursement arrangements. These roads would be classified as special
purpose roads, and, after construction, MOA would be responsible for mainte-
nance which would be carried out by contractors or by the Ministry of Works
Maintenance Branch. In Tana River district, roads would be built, upgraded,
and maintained by the Mobile Unit (para. 3.21) under close supervision of the
Ministry of Works. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (i) the
Government would provide sufficient budgetary funds to maintain regularly
after Project implementation all rural access roads built or improved under
the Project (ii) roads built or upgraded under IADP II in Lamu, Taita and
Kajiado districts would be classified as special purpose roads; and (iii)
prior to construction or upgrading of rural access roads in IADP II areas,
Government would discuss with IDA programs to rehabilitate classified roads
connecting these areas to their markets.
4.14      Rural Water Supply.  Planning, location and programming of proposed
water supply investments would be carried out in close cooperation between
the Ministry of Agriculture, the Water Department in the Ministry of Water



- 38 -
Development and the DDCs.  Detailed design, technical specification, engineer-
ing standards, and tender documents would be prepared by the Water Depart-
ment's Planning and Design Division, according to their standards, with the
assistance of consultants, if necessary. If the Water Department employed
consultants, their selection and terms of reference should be acceptable to
IDA. Water Department standards regarding consumption rate, water quality,
design period, and typical structures are acceptable to IDA. Depending on
timing and location, the Water Department would build some schemes with
its own Direct Labor section or employ contractors. Consulting engineers
would supervise the work of contractors. The Water Department would be
responsible for maintenance of water supply schemes in the Project area and
also for initiation of the study on water resources planning in the Coast
Province. Assurances were obtained negotiations that users would be charged
the water tariffs applicable to rural water supply.
4.15      Resource Conservation.  Resource conservation works in IADP II
areas would be planned and implemented by MOA's extension staff as part of
the ongoing Labor Intensive Soil Conservation Program. Training of extension
staff and of farmers would be the responsibility of the Project Management and
Evaluation Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. On-farm work would be
done by the farmers themselves and the Ministry of Agriculture would hire
casual labor at peak periods. Establishment of the tree nurseries would also
be the responsibility of the Project Management and Evaluation Division.
4.16      Small Scale Irrigation.  A management team stationed at Garsen would
be responsible to the Land Development Division of MOA for rehabilitation of
the five small irrigation schemes. The team leader would be assisted by an
irrigation engineer and an agronomist and would coordinate training of the
scheme managers and support staff to operate the rehabilitated schemes. The
farmers would be responsible for land preparation and maintenance of the
bunds. Further responsibilities would be the establishment of extension and
cooperative services for marketing and input supplies for rainfed agriculture
as well as for the irrigation schemes.
4.17      Cooperative Development.  MOCD would be largely responsible for
carrying out the IADP II assistance program to the cooperative movement. The
Ministry of Lands and Settlement, as the sole Government agency responsible
for development of settlement schemes, would carry out those parts of the
program to be implemented in settlement schemes in IADP II areas (para 3.25).
4.18      Credit Development.  CBK and AFC would be responsible for the IADP
II program of developing credit services to smallholders in the Project area.
Since the bulk of seasonal credit to smallholders would be available through
the Cooperative unions and societies, CBK field offices would play a dual
role in the development of this program. Firstly, CBK would review in con-
sultation with MOCD the management, financial condition, and creditworthiness
of each IADP II union and society, and on the basis of this review, prepare a
list of those eligible for credit, assign each one a credit limit, and submit
the list to the MOCD for approval. Secondly, when a union or society was
judged not to be creditworthy, CBK, in consultation with the Ministries of
Agriculture and Cooperative Development, would prepare a detailed plan of



- 39 -
specific measures required to render such unions and societies eligible for
participation in the program. The plan would also indicate the timing of
these measures. CBK field officers would then be responsible for helping
union staff set up proper systems and procedures for credit approval and
supervision. MOCD staff would provide management support (para. 3.24), and
MOA staff would provide technical advice. Progress against the plan would be
reviewed each quarter and CBK would make yearly reviews of each union's credit
standing and limit. CBK would communicate its assessment to the unions after
consulting with the Ministries of Cooperative Development and Agriculture.
The list of credit eligibility criteria for unions and societies was agreed at
negotiations. Each union's annual credit review would be incorporated in the
IADP II annual work plan (para 4.03).
4.19      Agricultural Extension and Research.  The DAOs would have direct
responsibility for strengthening of extension services in IADP II areas.
The responsibilities of the field extension officers directly under the DAO
would be wider under IADP II than in the past. The distribution of planting
material for pasture improvement and fodder production would be their respon-
sibility and they would advise farmers on all activities connected with this
program. The extension officers would select participants for training in
the FTCs and would follow up on the training with advice on the use of the
crop packages. The training of lay out teams for resource conservation works
would be the responsibility of the field extension officers who would also
supervise the planning and implementation of the conservation structures.
The Deputy Director of Agriculture in Nairobi oversees extension activities
generally, and at Provincial level these are coordinated by the PDA, assisted,
for IADP purposes, by an IADP Provincial Coordinator. Expansion of adaptive
research activities would be the responsibility of the Scientific Research
Division of MOA. The head of the Coconut Rehabilitation Unit and the officers
in charge of the two fruit tree nurseries (para. 3.32) would report to the
Chief of Scientific Research Division (see Chart 1).
Project Completion Report
4.20      The Government would prepare a completion report summarizing Project
performance and evaluating its impact. The report should be submitted to IDA
not later than six months after the expected closing date. Assurances on this
subject were obtained at negotiations.
C. Project Implementation Schedule
4.21      The Project would be implemented over a period of about 5-1/2 years,
beginning in January 1980; Project Year 0 would be considered the period up
to June 30, 1980 covering all start-up activities, so that subsequent Project
years would coincide with the Government's fiscal year. A Project implementa-
tion schedule is summarized below, and was agreed during negotiations:



- 4) -
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DZVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proji ectI_mleentat onSchedule
Project Year                                        0            1              2            3            4             5              6
Fiscal Year                                      1979/80      1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1953/84      1984/85       1985/86
Quaqutrters   *!arter_ 3    jarr         Qu-41arters    Qa  te rs    Ouarters    Quarters
1 234 12 34 1_2 34 12 34 1 23-4  _______
1.  Project Planni/BPreparation
Terms of Reference - Key Staff
Formal Approval of Institutional
Arrangements
Agreement on Lending Terms
Plans for Buildings
Settlement Development Planning
Work Plans:
- District Submission                                 *                                        U             U            U
- Submission to Coordinating Committee                                  U                          U             U
2. Project Staffing
MOCD
Cooperative, Unions & Societies                              ii                      i
Cotton Lint & Seed Marketing Board
Maize & Prod-ce Board
Small Scale Irrigation Unit: Sr. Staff
CBK
AFC
Agricultural Extension Service
Two Plant  3:eeders
Coconut Resab. Sr. Agronomist                       X
Agrostologist and two A.I. experts
IADP Planning Officer                       m
IADP Administrative Officer                 m
Monitoring & Evaluation Staff
3.  Proijct Implementation
Dip Construction & Rehabilitaticon
Artificial Inseminations                                              _ 
Establishment of Sheep & Goat Ctrs.
Honey Refineries
KNFC Stores
Cooperative Stores
MPB Stores
CLSMB Stores
Rural Access Roads
Rural Water Supply
Resource Conservation:
- Nurseries Establishment
- Training Admin. Staff
Cooperative Development:
- Coooarative Service Study
- Management Consulting
CBK Brancnes
Coconut Rehabilitation
Fruit Tree Nurserie.
I. IDA
Appraisal                                 U
Negotiations                                 3
Bosrd Presentation                               x
Etrectiveness                                            -
Completion                                                                                                                      3
(Sept. 1985) 
(April 1986)



- 41 -
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22      A system for monitoring and evaluation of projects was introduced
in MOA under IADP I. It would be used also for IADP II. The system is
operated jointly by the newly created Projects Management and Evaluation
Division and the Development Planning Division, with the dual objectives of
producing data for guiding project managers and project planners. The system
is closely related to the Integrated Rural Survey of the Central Bureau of
Statistics, and measures the performance of farmers in response to IADP and
the Program's effectiveness in removing development constraints. The IADP
Monitoring and Evaluation Coordinator directs the field operations of this
system, working with a team of enumerators under the control of a provincial
supervisor. In mid-1978, a Bank/IDA supervision mission reviewed the per-
formance of the IADP Monitoring and Evaluation system, concluded that it was
generally well conceived, and recommended ways to improve it based on the
experience of its first year of operation. The primary recommendation was
that all agencies responsible for Project implementation should recognize the
importance of monitoring and evaluation reports as a tool to improve manage-
ment performance at all levels. A large number of ministries and agencies
play an important role in IADP, and they must be the subject of a coordinated
monitoring system. The 'pro-forma survey', a set of questionnaires for
participating agencies, was introduced in August 1977. Its purpose was to
provide IADP management the information it needed to coordinate the program
effectively at all levels. The 'pro-forma survey' is an excellent concept,
but it did not work properly during the first year because the users were
unfamiliar with it, and the follow-up was poor. The 'pro-forma survey' would
be revised and simplified, relevant agencies would be added, and IADP manage-
ment would formally request and obtain the completed questionnaires every
quarter as a step in each agency's participation in the work plan formulation
(para. 4.03).
4.23      The following additional steps are being taken to improve the moni-
toring and evaluation system: (i) participating farmers would be defined as
all farmers who adopt the technical recommendations of the extension agents
and not only those who borrow to purchase seasonal inputs; (ii) the 'pro-forma
survey' would monitor progress with physical infrastructure development as well
as farmers' adoption rates; (iii) the capability for providing quick feed-back
to management on particular implementation problems, identifying the constraints
and making recommendations for their removal would be built into the system;
and (iv) the farm surveys would be expanded to include samples from all IADP
II districts, and staff increased accordingly (para. 3.35).
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Technical Features
Livestock
5.01      Livestock production yield increases are expected to result from
a strengthened and expanded range of veterinary services and management



- 42 -
techniques such as the production of forage in rotation with foodcrops, a
major link in the "whole farm" development cycle. It is expected that labor
requirements for livestock development on smallholdings could be met from
existing on-farm manpower.
5.02      Five farm models were developed to represent farms using different
combinations of E'roject provisions. They reflect actual situations which
exist at present. Three of these are considered most significant: (i) the
intensive model representing about 20,000 farmers who would adopt all cattle
development provisions; (ii) the extensive cattle model representing about
230,000 farmers who would only use dip facilities; and (iii) the specialized
model representing about 4,000 farmers who would adopt the small stock develop-
ment provisions. The development assumptions for the intensive model are that
the smallholder would follow the disease control program including vaccination
against Foot and Mouth Disease, treatiment of endoparasitic diseases and
regular dipping; he would improve his pasture through shrub clearing and
fertilizing and would cross his Zebu cattle with high yielding breeds through
artificial insemination. Total yearly milk production on such a farm would
increase from 400) kg without the Project to 2,000 kg at full development after
Project year 5 and sales of improved mature animals would double to one every
other year. The extensive model is representative of those farmers who would
benefit from the Veterinary Department's dips only (para 5.08). Application
of the Cattle Cleansing Act would make dipping compulsory and more than 2
million head of cattle would be regularly dipped in districts of the Project
area. The annuaL milk yield per cow would remain unchanged, but disease
control would lower the mortality rate of the cattle and this would be
reflected in increased sales of unimproved animals and a 60% higher milk
production. The other two cattle models are based on improvements through
dipping and fodder production, and dipping and artificial insemination.
Incremental increases of production are between those outlined for the two
models above.
5.03      The specialized model represents farmers who would improve their
small stock production. Improved genetic potential and improved husbandry
would result in higher liveweight of animals sold. An improved sire would be
bought and used for three breeding seasons. All progeny would be retained for
incorporation into the flock until it consisted entirely of improved animals;
thereafter, only replacement females would be kept. Veterinary treatment
would supplement the genetic upgrading and forage would be cultivated when
the feed requirements of the flock increased.
Crops
5.04      Specific crop packages would be designed for different Project areas
and adjusted annually in IADP work plans. The packages would not be adjusted
to individual cases so that a farmer could either accept or reject a package.
Farmers' adoption of the technical crop packages and use of improved husbandry
methods would result in intensified production. The table below gives per
hectare yields for the various crops without the Project and as they are
expected to be at full development. The increase in per hectare productivity
would come mostly from the effects of chemical fertilizers, improved seeds,
and improved crop husbandry practices such as pest control, and regular



- 43 -
weeding. Soil conservation measures would also have a beneficial effect upon
yields. Yield assumptions are based on actual yields obtained by farmers in
the Project area presently using the proposed inputs. There would be varia-
tions in hectare yield and cropping pattern among the different parts of the
Project area. Three farm models have been established; one each for Rift
Valley, Coast and the four other Provinces. The farm models consist of four
parts; (i) the agricultural base data, area, yield and value of inputs and
outputs; (ii) the financial crop budget; (iii) the cash flow and (iv) seasonal
labor requirements. While these farm models do not show all the various
farming conditions throughout the Project area, they represent 85% of the area
which would be planted using crop packages and thus illustrate expectations
for the majority of participating farmers. Contrary to the livestock compo-
nent, the crop farm models have not been used to derive directly total incre-
mental benefits since the models do not include all crops of the packages.
Thus the models are only indicative.
Yield Assumptions
---------------- kg per ha -------------
Without                 At full Project
Prolect              Development (year 4)
Maize                    990 - 1,260                 2,000 - 2,500
Cotton                      300                           600
Sunflower                400 -   480                   900 - 1,000
Green gram                  480                           950
Sesame                      250                           480
Sorghum                     720                         1,600
Rice                                                    2,400
Soya bean                   540                         1,100
Pyrethrum                   350                           600
Potatoes                  6,000                        11,000
Beans                       350                           700
Full development of all crop farms is expected to be reached in year 9.
5.05      It is not expected that the areas under maize, beans, sesame, and
cotton would be increased significantly. The areas under other crops, parti-
cularly sunflower and pyrethrum would, however, be expanded. Gross margin
analysis for different crops and different combinations of crops indicate that
the highest margins are obtained where farmers practice intercropping and this
would be actively promoted under the Project.
B. Farmers' Benefits
5.06      The benefits to producers from the proposed Project would be multi-
fold. Cash benefits would accrue from increased sales of milk and live
animals for smallholders adopting any or all of the Project's livest:ock
development provisions. Smallholders who adopted all provisions could be
expected to increase their cash surplus from sales during the Project period



- 44 -
about four times. Cash benefits to smallholders adopting less than the full
package would aLso be considerable and all cattle owners in districts of the
Project area would derive tangible benefits from reduced cattle loss as the
result of disease control. Even where regular dipping was the only pare o0
the package thait farmers adopted, more calves would survive and thus more --
would be consumed with beneficial effects on human nutrition. Cattle farmen-
would increase their net cash income from about KSh 800 without Project 1-
about KSh 3,400 (1,200) under the intensive (extensive) model at full develop-
ment. Benefits from the sheep and goat component of the Project would be
mainly that the farmer would have heavier live animals for sale. The farmers'
cash surplus from sales in Project year 8 would be almost five times the
pre-Project level. On-farm human nutrition would be improved by the greater
number of male Lambs consumed. Farmers would finance livestock investments
with cash earnings from sales of incremental crop production.
5.07      The benefits to farmers adopting the crop packages and using im-
proved extension services and storage and marketing facilities would be
considerable. En Coast Province, the yearly net cash income of farmers
participating in the Project is expected to increase by 180%, from about KSh
700 to KSh 2,000. This is because the improvement in husbandry standards
would have greatest impact here and the potential for the main cash crops,
cotton and sunflower, is good. The net cash income of direct participants in
the districts of Eastern, Western, Central and Nyanza Province would almost
double, from about KSh 900 per year without the Project to about KSh 1,600 at
full Project development. In Rift Valley Province the net cash income of
participating farmers at full development is expected to be more than double
its pre-Project level, going from about KSh 900 to over KSh 1,800. Credit
funds would be made available to about 80% of participating smallholders to
purchase incremental farm inputs (para 3.12). The remaining 20% would invest
their cash savings or borrow from relatives and neighbors (para 1.26).
C. Production Estimates
Livestock
5.08      The Project is expected to have a strong impact on livestock pro-
duction. About 20,000 smallholders are expected to adopt all livestock
provisions, and about 4,000 to improve their small stock production, but
disease control, fodder production, and artificial insemination would have a
broader reaching impact throughout IADP II districts (see para 5.02). The
table below gives the estimated incremental production figures for Project
Year 15 compared with present national production.



- 45 -
Increment as
Production       Incremental  Present National       Percent,ages of
without Project   Production        Production       National Production
--------- '000 tons ----                  %
Milk           299.8           198.0            730.0 /a               27
Beef            41.3            36.0            128.0 /a               28
Mutton           0.6             0.7             31.0 /a                 2
Honey            0.2             0.2              8.5 lb                 2
/a   FAO estimates for 1977.
lb   Ministry of Agriculture estimates.
Crops
5.09      Estimates of crop production have been made on the basis of the
assumptions about the total number of farmers adopting the crop packages
and the area on which production of a specific crop will be intensified. The
table below shows estimated incremental production in Project year 9 compared
with present national production;
Increment as
Production       Incremental        National        Percentage of
without Project   Production         Production   Natibnal Production
Crop             '000 tons        '000 tons         '000 tons               (%)
Sesame              0.5            0.4    )
Soya bean           1.2            1.2    )         15                  49.0
(oilseeds)
Sunflower           6.4            5.6    )
Vegetable Oils      3.0            2.7               8                  33.8
Cotton Seed         2.5            2.5              12.7                19.5
Cotton Lint         1.2            1.2               6.3                19.5
Pyrethrum           0.6            0.4               9                   4.4
Green gram          0.2            0.3               7                   4.2
Potatoes            7.2            6.0             220                   2.7
Maize              26.5           32.0           1,500                    2.1
Beans               1.5            1.5             114                    1.3
Sorghum             0.3            0.4             114                   0.4
Rice                0.08           0.7              34                   2.0
5.10      It is expected that about 38,000 smallholders would adopt IADP II
technical crop packages during the Project period.  They represent 25% of
farmers in the Project area.  Estimates of overall farmers' participation
rates reflect IDA staff assessment of attainable levels in different parts
of the Project area, in view of its diversity. This judgement was based
on existing physical and institutional infrastructure, ecological and socio-
economic considerations, and experience with similar programs in other parts



- 46 -
of Kenya. It is estimated that 15% of total projected participating small-
holders would participate in Project year 1; 18%, year 2; 20%, year 3; 22%,
year 4, and 25%, year 5. This projection is more conservative than that made
for IADP I, and would be subject to change in the annual work plans.
5.11      The estimated production increases given above are conservative.
Services provided under the Project, such as soil conservation and extension
facilities would benefit all the farmers of the Project area and their crop
yields could be expected to increase, albeit at a slower pace than those for
participating farmers. The production estimates do not, therefore, reflect
the full impact that the Project would be likely to have. The largest relative
increments in production are for cotton (about 20%), oil seeds (about 50%),
and vegetable oils (about 35%).
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
Livestock Products
6.01      Incremental meat and milk production would be primarily sold on the
traditional market, as is virtually all present production; a small part would
be sold to KCC and KMC. Farm gate prices for both meat and milk are higher on
local markets than those offered by the KCC (para. 1.37) and KMC (para. 1.38).
The current farm gate price for milk sold on the local market is K Sh 1.0 per
kilo whereas the farm gate price for milk delivered to KCC would generally be
lower because of handling and other charges levied by the local cooperative.
KMC posted price for beef is K Sh 2.7 per kg. liveweight; for mutton, K Sh
3.5. Demand for beef is high and KMC has had great difficulty in procuring
live animals. Therefore it has recently been offering K Sh 3.30 per kg. live-
weight for beef at Lamu and Isiolo for commercial and standard grade healthy
animals. Private butchers pay up to K Sh 5 per kg liveweight for high quality
beef. There has been no official pr:Lce change since February 1978, but the
Ministry of Agriculture has reviewed beef prices in May 1979. The new prices,
however, have not yet been published.. The fourth Government Development Plan
states that there will be a gradual and substantial increase in meat prices
over the next five years. The prices which farmers would receive would cover
production costs and would include a profit margin sufficient to motivate them
to participate in the Project. Domestic milk and beef prices are currently
higher than international prices.
Crops
6.02      Food crops, including cereals, pulses and oil crops would be mar-
keted through MPB. Potatoes and fruit would be marketed by Horticultural
Crops Development Authority. As new zones are developed under the Project
for sunflower production, the involvement of MPB in marketing oil seeds will
increase. The cooperative societies and unions would become buying agents
of CLSMB and would deliver cotton directly to the ginneries. Pyrethrum mar-
keting is well cirganized; most farmers deliver fresh flowers to the coopera-
tive which then dries them. Recently a maximum price for drying pyrethrum was
set and charges should no longer be the disincentive they were in the past.



-47 -
6.03      Farm gate prices currently paid for Project produce are in general
adequate to provide enough incentive for farmers to use the proposed level
of inputs. However, there have been examples in recent years of lack of
balance of prices for competing agricultural produce that has had adverse
effects either creating surpluses or reducing production. For instance, maize
prices have been set relatively high during the last few years, which has led
to surplus production, causing serious marketing problems. In February 1979
the maize farm gate price was reduced from K Sh 80 to K Sh 65 per bag of 90
kg. On the other hand the price of pyrethrum flowers has been kept low for
the last five years in relation to milk and potatoes which can be produced
in the same areas. This has led to a large reduction in production from
15,000 tons in 1975 to 9,000 tons in 1978 and Kenya is no longer able to
satisfy the demand for pyrethrum derivatives. In October 1978 the farm gate
price for pyrethrum flowers was increased by 15% to correct this situation.
6.04      At negotiations of IADP I, the Government agreed with the Bank
Group to undertake a periodic review of agricultural commodity prices, and
to set up for this purpose a unit within MOA. The unit was established with
assistance from aid agencies. Annual reviews are conducted each FaLl and
recommendations issued by December 15 each year to the Cabinet. ReLative and
absolute price changes in real terms of milk, meat, honey, sesame, soya bean,
sunflower, cotton, pyrethrum, green gram, potatoes, maize, beans, sorghum, and
rice could affect the financial and economic results of the Project. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that Government would continue to review
such prices annually, and would from time to time exchange views with IDA on
factors to be considered in establishing prices for these commodities.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01      The principal economic benefits resulting directly from Project
investments would consist of increased production of milk, meat, maize,
beans, cotton, sunflower, sesame, green gram, potatoes, sorghum, pyrethrum
and rice. The value of annual incremental production is estimated at about
US$67 million at full development in Project year 15. These benefits
reflect only the production increases from farmers who would receive direct
livestock and crop production services under the Project, and therefore
may be considered a conservative estimate of likely benefits. Invest-
ments in physical infrastructure and institution building throughout the
Project area would provide the necessary framework to sustain increases in
livestock and crop production. For example, the construction of stores and
the development of roads would improve the efficiency of marketing; the
development of agricultural credit and cooperatives would make more inputs
and supplies available to farmers. Such investments would not only increase
Project production, but also benefit other economic activities in the area
indirectly. These additional benefits have not been quantified in the eco-
nomic analysis. The protection of natural resources, through soil conser-
vation measures (para. 3.20) would be a further benefit. Improved domestic



- 48 -
water supplies (para. 3.19) would alleviate the time consuming and onerous
task of fetching water, and improve huiman health. In addition, the Project
is designed to assist in the development of basic agricultural services in
the Project area, and thus improve planning for development at the district
level, implementation of development schemes, and delivery of services to
smallholders. The development of local institutions and training of staff
and farmers would be of crucial importance for the preparation of future
development projects.
Risks
7.02      The Project was designed to ininimize economic risks, but its
implementation could run into problems. Climatic variations are likely to
influence livestoc:k and crop production, and marketing.  Unusually favorable
rainfall and natural conditions would result in a bumper crop and possible
marketing bottlenecks and wasted production. This risk, however, is mitigated
by the substantial Project provision for marketing and storage facilities.
Conversely, adverse growing conditions, which are likely to occur, would reduce
yields substantially and result in production levels considerably lower than
expected. Economic rates of return caLculations reflect the probability
distribution of these occurences based on historically observed weather
patterns and mission estimates..
7.03      The scope and the complexity of the Project could cause management
difficulties resulting in implementation delays. Untimely delivery of inputs
could nullify the beneficial effects of fertilizer application and pest
control. Delays in the physical execution of one Project component could
adversely affect the performance of others. For example, delays in procure-
ment of construction materials for roads and stores would probably have an
adverse effect on the efficiency of marketing. These risks were taken into
account in the economic analysis which reflects estimates of the probability
of timely input delivery and marketing failures in any given year.
7.04      Another important risk the Project would face is slower adoption
rates by farmers than anticipated. Project work planning (para. 4.03) is
designed to be flexible and estimates of adoption rates appear conservative
if compared to actual experience with :IADP I. Adoption rates could be slower
than anticipated, however, because the reaction of the rural population to
new techniques and practices is unpred:Lctable. The economic rates of return
calculations therefore reflect an assessment of the possible economic conse-
quences of delays in the rate of adoption by Project area farmers for social
or psychological reasons.
7.05      Price related risks in this ]?roject would be minimal because the
incremental production is very diversified. Moreover none of the agricultural
commodities that would be produced has a history of cyclical price behavior
or price volatility.



- 49 -
Economic Rates of Return
7.06      The overall economic rate of return from directly and indirectly
productive Project investments is estimated to range from 18% to 30% with a
probability of 93% over 20 years after taking into account the probability
distribution of the costs and benefits which reflect the various risks in
Project implementation (paras. 7.02 through 7.05). The expected or mean value
of the Project's overall economic rate of return is 24%. This means that the
probability of any rate within the range being higher or lower is the same.
The expected economic rate of return for livestock production is 31%; for crop
production, 16%. The rate of return from livestock investments is higher than
that from crops because livestock economic benefits would largely result
from rehabilitation of existing facilities. All Project investment costs,
except the cost of improving rural water supplies, were included in the
analysis. If part of the cost of road development, resource conservation,
cooperative development, extension, training and research were excluded from
the analysis on the grounds that these would benefit a larger group of people
for whom no direct benefits have been estimated, the rates of return would
increase significantly. Farm labor costs were included in the analysis.
Hired labor was valued at the market wage rate which is assumed to reflect
its opportunity cost. Family labor was shadow-priced at 55% of the market
wage rate as some laborers, namely women and adolescents, are underemployed
and relatively immobile. Moreover family labor would be employed off season
when other employment opportunities are scarce. The average shadow wage rate
was assumed equal for all Project areas. Foreign exchange costs and benefits
were valued at US$1 = K Sh 10.5, as opposed to the prevailing rate of US$ 1 =
K Sh 7.5, to reflect the scarcity of foreign exchange. Cost and benefit
calculations are based on prices expected to prevail in December 1979. These
prices were adjusted to arrive at the corresponding shadow price and to
reflect expected relative movements on the world market prices of fertilizers,
oil seeds, cotton, rice, soya beans, and beef.
7.07      The rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes in Tana River District
is a pilot operation which would determine ways of cultivating rice but also
explore cultivation of other crops. Nevertheless an economic rate of return
has been calculated at 8%. This does not take into account the benefits
arising from general development of the area (road construction, extension and
cooperative services, and production of other crops are not included in the
schemes). The benefits of soil conservation and afforestation measures have
not been quantified separately in the economic analysis since they are closely
related to the benefits of other agricultural activities, particularly crop
production.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.08      The range of rates of return in para. 7.06 above represents risk
weighted estimates. Those estimates reflect the global impact of risks taken
as a whole on economic returns. The mean rate of return was also tested for
sensitivity to the occurrence of individual risks, and changes in some of the
basic assumptions. If marketed production was reduced by 10%, due to marketing
inefficiencies or lower yields than projected, the mean rate of return would
be reduced by three percentage points to 21%. If implementation delays were
to result in total cost overruns of 10%, the mean rate of return would also be



- 50 -
reduced by three percentage points to 21%. If adoption rates were one year
behind schedule, the mean rate of return would be reduced by seven percentage
points to 17%. If foreign exchange costs and benefits were valued at the
prevailing rate, the mean rate of return would be 31%. If farm family labor
were valued at market wage rates, the mean rate of return would be 19%. The
expansion of the livestock component, which was agreed upon during appraisal,
has not been quantitatively evaluated. It is, however, assumed to result in
equal increases of net benefits throughout the Project area because of the
positive impact of the dipping program.
Income Distributicin and Employment
7.09      The IBRI. relative poverty level in Kenya was calculated at US$78
per capita per year in 1976. Prospective Project beneficiaries currently
earn the equivalent of US$50 (1979 dolLars) per capita per year on the average,
including subsistence. The Project is therefore clearly addressing the needs
of the poorer segments of Kenyan society. At full development, beneficiaries'
average annual per capita incomes would have increased by about 70% to US$85
in constant 1979 monetary units.
7.10      Employment creation would be significant.  Government agencies,
statutory boards, and the Cooperative Movement would employ approximately
900 additional people to provide Project related services. New jobs would
also be created through the Project's construction activities. Moreover, at
full development, unskilled farm labor would be hired for an estimated annual
total of 1.7 million man-days while the existing on-farm labor force would be
more fully employed.
VIII. GOVERNMENT BUDGET
8.01      The cost of dipping cattle would be recovered directly from the
beneficiaries. The dipping fee is currently K Sh 0.3, but dipping is not
done systematically. With construction and rehabilitation of dips, the Cattle
Cleansing Act would be enforced. On the basis of 1,500 cattle dipped per
month per dip, the fees are expected to recover operating costs and would be
adjusted to cost increases. Since dipping could not be enforced with higher
fees, a recovery of investment costs cannot be expected. The rice farmers
in Tana River District would start paying irrigation fees after two years of
operation of the schemes. These fees, estimated at K Sh 875/ha, would cover
the cost of fuel and maintenance of the scheme plants. Farmers would in
addition contribute to maintaining the schemes with their own labor. A
further recovery of costs is not intended during the Project period for two
reasons: first, the farmers have not been paying any fees so far and cannot
now be expected to pay fees which would cover a greater part of the total
costs. Second, since the rice growing potential of the area is untested,
yield levels are uncertain.



- 51 -
8.02      The costs of dipping cattle, supplying farm inputs, developing
pastures, and producing forage, and part of the cost operating the small scale
irrigation schemes would be borne by, or recovered directly from, the bene-
ficiaries. The cost of all other Project investments would not be recovered
directly from the beneficiaries, as they would be extensions of basic Govern-
ment services which are normally provided free of charge. Exceptions would be
soil conservation works, for which farmers would provide their own labor, and
the tree nurseries. In line with general practice, however, the charge for
tree seedlings would be nominal because the Government is promoting reforesta-
tion as a measure against soil erosion. Some of the costs would be recovered
indirectly through taxation of Project incremental production. A Project
related Government cash flow is shown in Table 3.  Annual direct expenditures
for services in the Project area would increase by an estimated K Sh 24
million (US$3.2 million) in fiscal 1987 at current prices.  This amount, if
adjusted to 1978 monetary units, would be equal to K Sh 12 million (US$1.6
million), or 0.13% of fiscal 1978 Government revenues, estimated at K Sh 9.6
billion (US$1.3 billion). It is expected that Government would fund these
expenditures from general tax revenues.
8.03      Foreign exchange benefits are expected to result from the! export
of a share of Project incremental production and from import substitution.
Pyrethrin extracted from pyrethrum flowers would be exported. Additional
production of oil seeds, cotton, and rice would substitute for imports.
Foreign exchange costs would be incurred mainly for fertilizers, pesticides,
acaricides, equipment, and vehicles. During the Project period, foreign
exchange benefits would be equal to about one half of foreign exchange costs.
Thereafter, the Project net foreign exchange impact would be negligible.
IX. AGREEMENTS AND CONDITIONS
9.01      The Project would be implemented in accordance with an Axinual Work
Plan which would be submitted to IDA for review and comments before presenta-
tion to the IADP Coordinating Committee. The approval of the Coordinating
Committee would be a condition of disbursement for the period and iinvestment
categories to which each Plan related (para 4.03).
9.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the follow]ing:
(a) job descriptions for the CBK field officers to be appointed
(para 3.27);
(b)  new institutional arrangements for MOA (para 4.01);
(c) revised composition of the IADP Coordinating Committee
and its terms of reference (para 4.04);
(d) terms of reference of key Project staff (para 4.06);
(e) credit eligibility criteria for cooperative unions and
societies (para 4.18).; and
(f) Project Implementation Schedule (para 4.21).



- 52 -
9.03      During negotiations assurances were obtained as to the following:
(a)  Regarding livestock development:
(i) that cattle dipping fees would be reviewed from time to
time but at least once a year, and revised as necessary
to ensure that they allow full recovery of the cost of
operating the dips (para 3.06);
(ii) that Government would take steps to eliminate any dis-
crepancies in fees charged at dips in IADP II districts
by January 1, 1982 (para 3.06);
(iii) that Government would guarantee the necessary supply of
breeding males for the sheep and goat centers (para. 3.09).
(b)  that Government would include the agreed lending terms and con-
ditions in the Subsidiary Financing Agreements between Government
and CBK and between Government and AFC (para 3.42);
(c)  Regarding Accounts and Audit::
(i) that separate Project accounts would be kept (para 3.47);
(ii) that the accounts prepared by the IADP financial con-
troller would be forwarded to IDA not later than six
months following the end of the financial year to which
they relate (para 3.47);;
(iii) that independent auditors acceptable to IDA would continue
to be appointed to audil: Project related entities and
accounts (para 3.47); and
(iv) that arrangements satisfactory to IDA would be made for
the audit of expenditures made against certificates of
expenditure (para 3.47).
(d)  that Government would submit the draft Annual Work Plan to
IDA no later than March 1st of each year, beginning in 1980
(para 4.03);
(e)  that the Government in agreement with IDA, develop proposals
for the reorganization of MOCD by March 30, 1980, and make them
effective no later than September 30, 1980 (para 4.05);
(f)  that Government would submit terms of reference and qualifications
of consultants and internationally recruited experts engaged for
the Project to IDA for its approval and consult with IDA on their
appointment (para 4.06).



- 53 -
(g) Regarding rural access roads:
(i)  that the Gover-n-t woul' n-rvide slfficient budget'-v
funds to maintain regularly after project implemental:ion
all rural access roads built or improved under the
project (para 4.13);
(ii)  that roads built or upgraded in Lamu, Taita and Kajiado
districts would be classified as special purpose roads
(para 4.13);
(iii)  that prior to construction or upgrading of rural access
roads in IADP II areas, Government would discuss withl IDA
programs to rehabilitate classified roads connecting those
areas to their markets (para 4.13).
(h)  that users of rural water supplies built under the Project would
be charged the water tariffs applicable to rural water sulpply
(para 4.14);
(i)  Assurances were received at negotiations that Government
would prepare a completion report summarizing Project perform-
ance and evaluating its success and that this report would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the expected
closing date (para 4.20).
(i)  that agricultural commodity prices affecting IADP II would be
reviewed periodically, and views exchanged with IDA on factors
to be considered in setting prices (para 6.04).
9.04      It would be a condition of Credit effectiveness that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the loan from IFAD to the Government except
effectiveness of the IDA Credit had been satisfied, and IDA had been appointed
as administrator of the IFAD loan (para 3.39).
9.05      The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(i)  It would be a condition of disbursement for the supplemental
Cooperative Training component that the Ministry of Cooperative
Development had submitted a detailed investment program satis-
factory to IDA (para 3.30);
(ii) The execution of subsidiary Financing Agreements satisfactory
to IDA between Government and CBK and Government and AFC would
be conditions of credit disbursement to CBK and AFC (para 3.42);
(iii)  It would be a condition of disbursement to KNFC for merchandising
investments that the reorganization study of its merchandising
activities had been completed under terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA, and that its detailed proposals had been approved by IDA
(para 4.11);
9.06      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$46.0 million to the Government of Kenya on
standard IDA terms.



- 54 -
MATERIAL AVAILABLE IN IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES
1.   Development Cost Projections
Table 1.   Project Costs Summary
Table 2.   Livestock Development -- Capital Costs
Table 3.   Livestock Development -- Operating Costs
Table 4.   Farm Inputs Supply
Table 5.   Marketing - Cooperatives, Unions, Societies
Table 6.   Marketing - Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board
Table 7.   Marketing - Maize and Produce Board
Table 8.   Rural Access Roads
Table 9.   Rural Water Supply
Table 10.  Resource Conservation
Table 11.  Small Scale Irrigation Project Cost
Table 12.  Cooperative Developmenl:
Table 13.  Credit Development - Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd.
Table 14.  Credit Development - Agricultural Finance Corporation
Table 15.  Agricultural Extension and Training
Table 16.  Agricultural Research    Capital Costs
Table 17.  Agricultural Research   Operating Costs
Table 18.  Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 19.  Summary of Investments
Table 20.  Summary of Investments - Civil Works
Table 21.  Summary of Investments - Equipment, Working Capital, and
Technical Assistance
Table 22.  Summary of Investments - Operating Costs
Table 23.  Average Vehicle Maintenance and Operating Costs
Table 24.  Crop Inputs - Incremental Working Capital
Table 25.  Total Crop Input Costs
Table 26.  Livestock Development -- Dip Operating Costs and Recovery
2.   Physical and Demographic Details of Project Areas
3.   Government Policies for the Small Farm Sector
4.   Review of Project Crops
Table 1.   Average Monthly Rainfa.l
Table 2.   Coast Province - Crop 'Packages and Area Planted by Districts
Table 3.   Rift Valley - Crop Packages and Area Planted by Districts
Table 4.   Other Districts - Crop Packages and Area Planted by Districts
Table 5.   Total Area Cultivated with Crop Packages



- 55 -
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES (continued)
5.   Crop Production Estimates and Farm Budgets
Table 1.  Number of Participating Farmers
Table 2.   Gross Margin by Crops - Coast Province
Table 3.   Agricultural Data: Farm I (3.60 hectares) - Rift Valley
Table 4.   Financial Crop Budget: Farm I - Rift Valley
Table 5.   Operational and Financial Results - Cash Flow (Farm I) -
Rift Valley
Table 6.   Raw Labor Requirement (Farm I) - Rift Valley
Table 7.  Agricultural Data: Farm 2 - Coast Province
Table 8.   Financial Crop Budget - Farm 2 - Coast Province
Table 9.   Operational & Financial Results - Cash Flow (Farm 2) -
Coast Province
Table 10.  Raw Labor Requirement (Farm 2) - Coast Province
Table 11.  Agricultural Data: (Farm 3) (3.20 hectare) - Other ])istricts
Table 12.  Financial Crop Budget - (Farm 3) - Other Districts
Table 13.  Cash Flow (Farm 3) - Other Districts
Table 14.  Raw Labor Requirements - (Farm 3) - Other Districts
Table 15.  Yield Assumptions
Table 16.  Physical and Labor Inputs
Table 17.  Crop Production Development
6.   Livestock Production and Project Proposals
Table la   Distribution of Livestock and Artificial Insemination
.Table lb   Artificial Inseminations Performed in Project Area
Table 2    Implementation of Livestock Component
Table 3    Incremental Livestock Production
7.   Farm Budgets and Production Estimates - Livestock
Table 1.   Participation of Farmers in Dairy Development
Table 2.   Farm Model I: Dairy Cattle Herd Development Projections (A.I.)
Table 3.   Farm Model I: Dairy Cattle Sales, Investments and Operating Costs
Table 4.   Farm Model I: Dairy Cattle Loan Cash Flow
Table,5.   Farm Model I: Dairy Cattle Requirement and Production of Feed
Table 6.   Farm Model II: Dairy Cattle Sales and Operating Costs
(disease control and feed production)
Table 7.   Farm Model III: Dairy Cattle Herd Development Projections
(A.I. and disease control)



- 56 -
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES (continued)
7.   Table 8.   Farm Model IV: Dairy Cattle Production and Sales
(disease control)
Table 9.   Farm Model V: Sheep and Goats Flock Development Projections
(upgrading)
Table 10   Farm Model V: Sheep and Goats Sales, Investments and
Operating Costs
Table 11.  Farm Model V: Sheep and Goats - Cash Flow
8.   Agricultural Credit
Table 1.   New Agricultural Credit Issued by Type of Farmer
1973/74-1976/77
Table 2.   C]BK Balance Sheet at year ended June 30
Table 3.   CEBK Profit and Loss Statement for the Year ended June 30
(KSh Million)
Table 4.   CEBK Funds Statement at Year ended June 30
Table 5.   CB3K Schedule of.Selected Financial Indicators
Table 6.   C]3K Past Due Loans at 10/31/78
Table 7.   AFC Balance Sheet at March 31st
Table 8.   AFC Income Statement for the Years ended March 31st
9.   Farm Inputs Supply and Distribution
Table 1.   INFC - Branches and Depots
Table 2.   KNFC - Appointed Stockists
10. Marketing
Table 1.   Ma-ize and Produce Board Stores
Table 2.   Proposed Cooperative Stores
11. Small scale ]:rrigation and Resource Conservation
Appendix 1. Estimated Costs for Resource Conservation
Table 1.   Irrigation Development - Capital Costs
Table 2.   Irrigation Development - Staff Requirements
Table 3.   Irrigation Development - Gross Margin for Rice
Cultivation (1 ha)
Table 4.   Implementation Schedule and Rice Production
Table 5.   Tana River Irrigation and Road Development - Project Cost
Table 6.   Tana River Road Development - Project Cost
Table 7.   Tana River Project Management Cost



- 57 -
IMPLEM4ENTATION VOLUME
ANNEXES (continued)
12.  Rural Access Roads
Chart I.   Field Organization
Chart II.  Organization of a RAR Unit
Table 1.   Annual Wages and Fuel Consumption of one RAR Unit
Table 2.   Running Cost for RAR Units
Table 3.   Estimated Cost of Gravelling of Rural Access Roads
Table 4.   Distribution of RAR units
Table 5.   Financing Sources of RARP
Table 6.   RARP Productivity
Table 7.   Average Construction Cost RAR Unit
13.  Rural Water Supply
Table 1.   Rural Water Supply Systems in IADP II Districts
Table 2.   National Master Water Plan - Cost Estimates
Table 3.   Rural Water Supply Schemes - Status and Costs
Table 4.   Cost Estimates for Water Supplies
14. Extension and Training
15. Cooperative Development
Table 1.   Cooperative Development - Allocation of Annual Incremental
Overhead Cost
Table 2.   Salary Ranges of Civil Service
16. Research and Technology
17. Economic Analysis
Table 1.   Financial Prices of Agricultural Inputs
Table 2.   Financial Prices of Agricultural Outputs
Table 3.   Cost of Fertilizer, December 1978
Table 4.   Price Projections for Fertilizer
Table 5.   Economic Prices
Table 6.   Economic Rates of Return
Table 7.   Economic Benefits
Table 8.   Total Economic Cost:  Livestock Development
Table 9.   Total Economic Cost:  Crop Production
Table 10.  Risk Data Table
Chart I.   Cumulative Distribution of Economic Rate of Return



KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Costs Sumsarv
(K Sh Millions)
Coesonent                  Year 0O/       Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Years 0 - S      Foreign Exchange      T        & Duti
1. Livestock Development:
- Disease Control                      7.0           11.5        10.6         9.3         8.0        6.8           53.2                54                   9
- Artificial Insemination              2.7            5.4         5.7         4.0         3.7        3.8           25.3                48                  10
- Sheep and Goat Centers               0.6            1.3         0.9         0.8         0.8        0.4            4.8                31                  10
- On-farm Development                   -             6.6         9.5         7=7         7.6        7.2           38.1                69                   7
- Apiculture                            -             0.4         0.5         0.4         0.4        0.4            2.1                44                   7
10.3          25.2        27.2         21.7       20.5       18.6          123.5                56                    9
2. Farm Inputs                              3.0            8.6        11.7        14.6        15.b       16.4           69.9                68                   6
3. Marketing                                5.4           10.6        13.6         7.3         6.8        6.1           49.8                45                   14               5
4. Rural Access Roads                       3.3            9.6         8.0         9.0         3.3        3.6           36.8                47                   16
5. Rural Water Supply                       0.7            2.5         3.4         3.8         3.1        1.7           15.2                55                   14
6. Resource Conservation                    0.9            4.5        11.3        11.8        10.7       11.2           50.4                29                   0
7. Small Scale Irrigation                   1.0            1.7         1.0         1.3         1.9        2.1            9.0                61                   15
8. Coop. Dev. & Settlement Planning         7.6           15.5        14.2        14.4        12.0       11.4           75.1                41                    f
9. Credit Development                       1.3            2.0         3.5         2.2         2.5        2.6           14.1                30                    9
10. Agricultural Extension & Training        6.9            8.8         1.4         5.9         5.,        5.1           39.6                31                   9
11. Research                                 5.5            9.7         8.6         7.4         4.6        2.6           38.4                39                   5
12. Management, Monitoring & Evaluation      1.7            2.5         2.5         2.1         2.0        1.8           12.6                28                   5
Total Base Cost             47.6          101.2       112.4       101.5        88.5       83.2          534.4                47                    8
Physical Contingencies                  2.4            5.1         5.7         5.2         4.6        4.2           27.2                53                    8
Price Contingencies b/                   -             8.8         20.3        28.1       32.0       37.5          126.7                45                    8
Total Contingencies           2.4           13.9        26.0        33.3        36.6      41.7          153.9                46                    8
TorAL PROJEC  COST           50.0          115.1       131.4       134.8       125.1     124.9          66.3                  47
a/ Year 0 is period up to June 30, 1980
Base costs have been estimated at prices expected to prevail in December 1979. The
mission estimated base costs and price contingencies according to projected
rates of inflation as follows:
Foreign Exchange Costs            Local Costs
1980-86              1980-82      1983-86
Civil Works               6% p.a.                107. p.a.    67 p.a.
Equipment                 77. p.a.              107. p.a.     7b p.a.
Technical Assistance      7% p.a.               107. p.a.     7% p.a.
Other                     67 n.a.               107 p.a.      67. p.a.
November 2, 1979



_ 59 -
Table 2
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Retroactive Financing
IDA
Cost                 Financing
K Sh million   US$ million    US$ million
A.  Civil Works
Offices and staff housing                     1.5            0.2             0.2
Stores                                        1.3            0.2             0.2
Cattle Dips                                  0.6             0.1              -
Nurseries                                    0.2              -               -
Training Centers/Facilities                  0.2              -               -
Sub-total                           3-8             0.5            0.4
B. Equipment
Four wheel drive vehicles, cars
trucks, lorries, tractors                     2.8            0.4             0.3
Mobile Irrigation Unit                        1.3            0.2             o.2
Other general equipment                      0.9             0.1             0.1
Office/Laboratory Equipment                  0.5             0.1             0.1
Trucks/Tractors for Road Construction        0.5              -               -
Ministry of Cooperative Development
Equipment                                   0.8             0.1             0.1
Sub-total                           6.8             0.9            0.8
C. Working Capital
Acaricides                                    1.5            0.2             0.1
Farm Inputs                                  1.1             0.2             0.1
Sub-total                           2.6             0.4            0.2
D. Technical Assistance
Water Resource Planning/Engineering           0.5            0.1             0.1
Settlement Planning                          0.1              -               -
Soil and Ground Water Survey                 0.2              -               -
Study on Cooperative Employment              0.7             0.1             0.1
Sub-total                           1.5             0.2            0.2
E. General Services
Vehicles' Maintenance and Operation           0.9            0.1             0.1
Ex'Aemsion, supplies                         0.4             0.1              -
Farmers' Training                            0.2              -               -
Sub-total                           1.5             0.2            0.1
u                              F. Salaries
MOCD                                           0.9            0.1              -
Union & Societies                              0.7            0.1             0.1
Others                                         1.6            0.2             0.1
Sub-total                           3.2             0.4             0.2
TOTAL                              1_.4
October 15, 1979



KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flow 1/
(KSh'million)
Year 0          1            2          3           4           5           6           7           8           9          10
Sources of Funds
External Sources
- IDA                           -           7_.         60.0        90.0        90.0        75.0        22.5         -           -           -           -
- IFAD                          -           34.         22.5        33.0        33.0        27.8         8.3         -           -           -           -
Taxes and Import Duties 2/        4.2         10.6         13.8       14.8        16.5        19.2        2a.5        36.0        39.7        43.4        47.1
Farmers Contribution 3/           1.4         15.1        23.8        25.9        31.9        36.7        40.2        42.9        45.6        48.7        51.7
Total Sources of Funds            5.6        36.2        120.1       163.7       171.4       158.7        99.5        78.9        85.3        92.1        98.8
Uses of Funds
Project Expenditures             61.0       135.0        158.0       150.0       140.0       141.0        79.6        84.9        90.5        96.3       102.4
Debt Serv-ce
IDA Service Charge 4/            -          0.0          0.3         0.8         1.5         2.1         2.5         2.6         2.6         2.6         2.6
IFAD Service Charge 5/           -          0.0          0.1         0.4         0.7         1.1         1.2         1.3         1.3         1.3         1.3
Total Uses of Funds              61.0       135.0         158.4      151.2       142.2       144.2        83.3        88.8        94.4       100.2       106.3
Net Cash Flow                   (55.4)       (98.8)       (38.3)      12.5        29.2        14.5        16.2        (9.9)       (9.1)       (8.1)       (7.5)
1/ In current prices.
27  This category comprises indirect taxes and import duties during Project implementation; taxes and import duties on operating cost and
reinvestments after implementation; some direct taxes on revenues in she processing industry; and sales and excise taxes for consumption
out of net incremental cash income of farmers.
3/  Includes mainly investment items for livestock improvement financed by farmers' own cash, and dipping fees paid by farmers.
t*
4/ Standard IDA terms.
5/  1% per annum service charge, maturity of 50 years including a grace period of 10 years.
August 27, 1979



- 61 -
Table 4
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                               Cumulative Disbursement a.
and Quarter                                                        Quarter End
US$ '000
1980
December 31, 1979
March 31, 1980 a/
June 30, 1980
1981
September 30, 1980                                                        100
December 31, 1980                                                         300
March 31, 1981                                                            500
June 30, 1981                                                           1,000
1982
September 30, 1981                                                      3,000
December 31, 1981                                                       5,000
March 31, 1982                                                          7,000
June 30, 1982                                                           9,000
1983
September 30, 1982                                                     12,000
December 31, 1982                                                      15,000
March 31, 1983                                                         18,000
June 30, 1983                                                          21,000
1984
September 30, 1983                                                     24,000
December 31, 1983                                                      27,000
March 31, 1984                                                         30,000
June 30, 1984                                                          30,000
1985
September 30, 1984                                                     36,000
December 31, 1984                                                      39, 000
March 31, 1985                                                        4,0
June 30, 1985                                                         41,000
1986
September 30, 1985  b/                                                 45,00
December 31, 1985                                                         0
March 31, 1986  c/                                                     46,000
a/ Expected date of effectiveness: March 15, 1980
b/ Expected Date of Project completion
c/ Closing date
August 27, 1979



K-ENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
(K Sh million)
Project Year
0       1        2        3       4        5        6        7       8                19  l   11       12       13       14-      15-20
Economic Benefits:
Livestock Development    -       22.0    54.0    85.9   131.3   184.2   224.3   264.7   306.8   343.1   388.3   389.4   403.8   401.0   393.7                395.6
Crop Production           _       4.5    13.5    28.5    49.6    72.7    89.4    99.4   104.4   104.4   104.4   104.4   104.4   104.4   104.4               104.4
Total Economic Benefits    -       26.5    67.5   114.4   180.9   256.9   313.7   364.1   411.2   447.5   492.7   493.8   508.2   505.4   498.1                500.0
Economic Costs:
Capital Costs            33.3    60.2    58.2    40.6    27.9    26.5    11.3    11.3    11.3    11.3    11.3    11.3    11.3    11.3    11.3                 11.3
Operating Costs         16.6    50.0    71.5    84.7    91.8    99.5    99.4    99.4    99.4    99.4    99.4    99.4    99.4    99.4    99.4                  99.4
Physical Contingencies  3,6       6.0      7.5      7.7      7.7     8.5      7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5      7.5      7.5     7.5      7.5      7.5        7.5
Family Labor               -      8.3    16.6    24.9    33.2    41.7    41.9    41.9    41.9    41.9    41.4    41.7    41.7    41.7    41.7                 41.7
Adjustment for Taxes   (4.2)   (9.2)  (10.5)   (9.6)   (9.0)   (9.7)   (6.2)   (6.2)   (6.2)   (6.2)   (6.2)   (6.2)   (6.2)   (6.2)   (6.2)                  (6.2)
Adjustment for Foreign 11.8    25.4    30.0    29.0    27,7    29i.    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6    25.6                   25.6
Exchange
Total Economic Costs       60.1   140.7   173.3   177.3   179.3   195.6   179.5   179.5   179.5   179.5   179.0   179.3   179.3   179.3   179.3                179.3
Net Economic Benefits    (60.1) (114.2) (105.8)  (62.9)    1.6    61.3   127.0   177.4   224.5   260.8   306.5   307.3   321.7   318.9   311.6                 313.5
Economic Rate of Return
Expected Value: 24%
Range: 18%-30% with probability of 93%
August 27, 1979



- 63 -
Table 6
KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Staffing
Senior Staff!!  Junior Staff   Total
Ministry of Agriculture                         18             393          411
Ministry of Cooperative Development             21             116          137
Ministry of Works                                -                5           5
Ministry of Water Development                                     1           1
Ministry of Settlement                           -                2           2
Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd.                  14              26           40
Agricultural Finance Corporation                 5              10           15
Maize and Produce Board                          4              44           48
Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board             2              86           88
Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives
Ltd.                                            1               -            1
Cooperative Unions and Societies                11             221          232
Total             76              904          980
1/ Job group K or equivalent and above
July 6, 1979



CHAR,
KENYA                                                                   Minrsterof
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                               Agriccycre
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION
[E~~~~~~~~~w H
C.-di"  S"..v      ~     ~      Prmnet ecetr
[               r    ~~~~~Deputy                              |Principal Officer |             |      Depuety
Secretary                                IFinance nand                 Sncnetary-I
Development                                   EtbihetAdminmstration
tk                                                       Hea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d A-of i
Onvelopmenti
r    .  ~~~~ Ig                   D , .
1 en n |Mketing      A|oi t |o
Veoletn Markerar                 Paf
PrePeraervice Devlopen  entAurts lnnn
..rdep   Director foD                                                                       t                                                   D                          D        i
9-~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
Sery ces                                                              l                                                                                9   |                 I~~~er-
ManagEment ad                                PraW.tic n                    Creop Peoduction     Lend Development                 I                                  L             Direnctr
evmuaie Diiin                                    Division                          Division             Dicisien                    5                                               ot Retedrch
|Co rti-ao   Lo  --  -  -  -  -  -  -                                                                    -   -_ -  -  -  -| D-
Send Arid/Acid  1                                       Aoinral  1          Licestook     Ir                   I ISenalr Scale                   5 l         AgniOcltorel               |j|
Lans  eelomenillFarm Menegement           Prcductian    ||      Meeketing               P00  C    rop                                                Inforatio                      Scientific Restenirch
Vlt                                                                                                           n                                                          Manptwer
Soiied  an
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                          ~           ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Hon CrosaSaahrni 
|~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~des                                                                                                                         Nasienall andrPovnia
| -- Offi-e                                                                                                                                        |o Agri..It.re  |
I~~                                                                                                                             ~                     ~~~ I2
Z | r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ | ~~~~~~~~~Offiper 
F                   A                    R                    M                    E                    R
World dank - 20271



KENYA
SECOND INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF CO-OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT
Proposed Organization
| MINISTER FOR CO-OPERATIVE                                      C-OPERATIVE|
DEVELOPM|N  * ~OETDVELOPMENT    C- OPERAITEIVE
PERMANENT SECRETARY       |
CON  PEAIVE 
ACCI ACCO AC  L                                                ASST
S.A.C.C.                                                                   P.C.O. SDAIRSECOONOCENTRA
CMISOASTECONTRO                                          SCO CO-OPESIOVE
DEVELOPMENT  -RTH EASTErN  -  '      IN        I         MOEMNTG A
|~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~N  PUBLICITATIV                                    STAF TRAHNINA    TAETANN
PLSANCCNINGNOT  ESTR                                                                                  A U[ CO TPER.CTIV                             E  D                           CREDIT & FINANCE
|  PLANNING  l                                         l                | | AUDIT & ACCO~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNTS || MANPOWE                               JG 'N'
FP.C.O.                I                                                                           I
WEAST E RN
l    A.C.C.D.    l l    A C : O  l l    A.C :.D.    l l                  H      EASTERN    l    |       A.D.A.             . . A.C C.D.   l            l                              _
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~NAZ
A_ RSAC.H AsiaNt Comssoe forA CooprNiD   DeveOPmEnATIV         A..P._                                       AUINCIEOE-AA....CCO-UA
SAC. Seio Asitn Comisoe o Co-prtv Devlomn                                              N AIRA                                                                                                     _ OBORINAO |
|IMPLEMENTATION|                                                                      P...           _AOFNNIL___                                                             ,     I      AP        I
7   COAST         CONTROL        | ~~~~~INFORMATION         MOVEMENT||S.O.MNTR|           IJ
2   P.C.O.                       | ~~~~~~AND PUBLICITY ||TF  RIIG  SAFTANN|-    NSE>OIT 
A.DA.   Assistant Director of Co-opertive Audit end Accouts
SCIF .   Srnollholdr Coffee IPpmprement Project
CY       F-inciI Co-opP.r.tiO Officrr                                               ACC.
S.C_.D  Asei C         o-operati ve D    efficnr                                 SETTLEMEN
lA D.P.  Integrated Agricultural Development Program
World Bank - 20270



99
K 0
/
/
< 7
/                                                                                                  2
cm0

0
2
0
<4
94                                                                                                                     0
U0
7                                          K
K
K                 4'
V2l 



)  -\             0~~~~~~~~~ -- ---
r                                                               N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
N'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<>2  ,  it~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C L
K  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/  k                                "   ,r    J7<               b;&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1L



