DOCUMITS         CREDIT NUMBER 959 KE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Integrated Agricultural Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     '     2f                , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associ-
ation).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) for
a loan (hereinafter called the Fund Loan) in an amount of thirteen
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR13,000,000) (equivalent to
about US$17,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter called
the Fund Loan Agreement) between the Borrower and the Fund;
(C) the Fund has appointed the Association as Cooperating
Institution to administer the Fund Loan in accordance with the
provisions of this Agreement, and the Association has accepted
such appointment; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have


﻿-2-
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "AFC" means the Agricultural Finance Corporation, a
public corporation established under the Agricultural Finance
Corporation Act (Cap. 323 of the Laws of Kenya).
(b) "CLSMB" means the Cotton Lint and Seed Marketing Board,
a body corporate established under the Cotton Lint and Seed
Marketing Board Act (Cap. 335 of the Laws of Kenya).
(c) "CBK" means the Cooperative Bank of Kenya Limited, a
body corporate established under the Co-operative Societies Act
(Cap. 490 of the Laws of Kenya) and licensed as a bank under the
Banking Act (Cap. 488 of the Laws of Kenya).
(d) "Development Planning Division" means the Development
Planning Division of MOA referred to in Section 4.06 (a) hereof.
(e) "District IADP Coordinating Committee" means the Commit-
tee working in liaison with the District Development Committee,
responsible for preparing the annual Work Plans under the Project
for the District, and is comprised of representatives of govern-
ment ministries, the agencies, and the cooperative unions, and
societies which are not members of a cooperative union, partici-
pating in the Project, with the District Agricultural Officer as
Chairman and the District Program Coordinator as Secretary.
(f) "District Development Committee" means the committee
responsible for initiating development projects for the District,
and is comprised of representatives of government ministries,
local members of Parliament, District local authorities, coopera-
tive unions and societies, with the District Commissioner as
Chairman and the District Development Officer as Secretary.
(g) "Fund Loan Account" means the loan account established
under the Fund Loan Agreement.
(h) "IADP Coordinating Committee" means the interministerial
projects coordinating committee referred to in Section 4.05 of
this Agreement.
(i) "KNFC" means the Kenya National Federation of Cooper-
atives Limited, a body corporate established under the Co-
operative Societies Act (Cap. 490 of the Laws of Kenya).


﻿-3-
(j) "MLD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock
Development.
(k) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
(1) "MOCD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Cooperative
Development.
(m) "MOTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport
and Communications.
(n) "MPB" means the Maize and Produce Board, a body cor-
porate established under the Marketing (Maize and Produce Board)
Order, 1966 (Legal Notice No. 76 of 1966), as amended by Legal
Notice No. 228 of 1966, issued under the Agricultural Produce
Marketing Boards Act (Cap. 320 of the Laws of Kenya), and subject
to the Maize Marketing Act (Cap. 338 of the Laws of Kenya), or
such successor to the powers and responsibilities of the Maize and
Produce Board as may be notified by the Borrower to the Associa-
tion and the Fund.
(o) "MWD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Water Develop-
ment.
(p) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
Project and Parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.
(q) "Project Area" means an aggregate area of approximately
26,000 square kilometers located in the Kilifi, Tana River, Lamu,
Kwale and Taita Districts in the Coast Province; the Elgeyo
Marakwet, Nandi, Kericho, Baringo, West Pokot and Kajiado Dis-
tricts in the Rift Valley Province; the Kakamega District in the
Western Province; the South Nyanza District in the Nyanza Pro-
vince; the Nyeri District in the Central Province; and the Embu
District in the Eastern Province.
(r) "PMED" means the Project Management and Evaluation
Division of MOA referred to in Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
(s) "RARP" refers to the Borrower's Rural Access Roads
Program and shall have the meaning assigned thereto by Section
1.02 (e) of the Development Credit Agreement (Rural Access Roads
Project) between the Borrower and the Association, dated July 9,
1976.


﻿-4-
(t) "Rural Water Supply Project Loan Agreement" means the
Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank dated Decem-
ber 20, 1978.
(u) "Special Drawing Right" and "SDR" means a special draw-
ing right allocated by the International Monetary Fund, as valued
from time to time by the International Monetary Fund.
(v) "Subsidiary Financing Agreements" mean the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and, respectively, CBK and
AFC pursuant to Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same
may be amended from time to time.
(w) "Work Plan" means a plan for carrying out the Project in
a fiscal year of the Borrower which has been prepared by the
Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to forty six million dollars ($46,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article III of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be April 30, 1986,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1990, and ending


﻿-5-
August 15, 2029, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Credit and Fund Loan
Section 3.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Development Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Credit and the amount of
the Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions
of this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such allocation may be modified from time to time pur-
suant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account for
expenditures made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 3.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Credit or the Fund Loan, the Borrower shall
deliver to the Association a written application in such form
and containing such statements and agreements as the Association
or the Fund shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal,
with the necessary documentation as hereinafter provided shall,
except as the Borrower, the Association and the Fund shall other-
wise agree, be made promptly in relation to expenditures for
the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as
the Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether


﻿-6-
before or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(c) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to
satisfy the Association or the Fund that the Borrower is entitled
to withdraw from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account
the amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for
the purposes of the Project.
(d) In support of applications to withdraw the proceeds of
the Credit and the Fund Loan, and in addition to such other
documentation as may be requested by the Association, the Borrower
shall submit certificates described below in the cases indicated:
(i) in the case of withdrawals under Category (1) in
respect of works carried out by force account, a
certificate of competent officials of MOW certify-
ing the amounts expended for labor and materials
for purposes of the Project;
(ii) in the case of withdrawals under Category (4) in
respect of fuel and oil, certificates of a compe-
tent official of the ministry, agency and cooper-
ative union or society involved, in each case
certifying the amounts expended for fuel and oil
for purposes of the Project; and
(iii) in the case of withdrawals under Category (4) in
respect of staff salaries, certificates of a
competent official of the ministry, agency, cooper-
ative union or society involved, in each case
certifying the number and description of the
persons employed for purposes of the Project and
the amounts paid them.
Section 3.04. Each such application by the Borrower for
withdrawal other than in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement or the date of the Fund Loan
Agreement in accordance with paragraph 4 (e) of Schedule 1
hereto shall be deemed to be a request to withdraw funds from the
Credit Account and from the Fund Loan Account and the funds to be
withdrawn pursuant to such application shall be apportioned by the
Association, as nearly as practicable in the circumstances,


﻿-7-
between the Credit and the Fund Loan in the ratio of 72:28, or
such other ratio as shall be agreed between the Association and
the Fund.
Section 3.05. When the Association shall have approved
an application by the Borrower for withdrawal, the Association
shall:
(i) pay the amount, if any, which the Borrower is
entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
to or on the order of the Borrower in accordance
with the provisions of the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(ii) promptly notify the Fund that it has received
an application for withdrawal from the Fund Loan
Account in the aggregate amount specified in
such notice, that it has approved payment of the
portion, if any, to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in the amount set forth in such notice, and
that the portion to be withdrawn from the Fund Loan
Account in the amount set forth in such notice is
eligible for payment by the Fund.
Section 3.06. If at any time the amount of the Credit or
the Fund Loan shall have been fully withdrawn or cancelled,
applications by the Borrower for further withdrawals shall be
deemed to be requested for withdrawal of the full amount applied
for from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan Account only, and the
provisions of this Article III except for Section 3.04 hereof
shall continue to apply mutatis mutandis until the full amount
credited or to be credited to such Account shall have been with-
drawn or cancelled.
Section 3.07. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such
terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association,
the Association may, on behalf and for the account of the Fund,
enter into special commitments to pay amounts out of the proceeds
of the Fund Loan in respect of the cost of goods required by the
Project, subject to the provisions of this Agreement concerning
the allocation and apportionment of the proceeds of the Fund Loan.
The Fund has advised the Association that any such special commit-
ment shall, once it has been notified to the Fund, constitute an
obligation on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding any
subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan, the amount


﻿-8-
to be disbursed out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan in fulfill-
ment of such special commitment.
Section 3.08. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, through the agencies referred to in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, financial and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall relend to CBK and AFC in the respec-
tive amounts approved in the Work Plans such part of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan as shall be allocated from time to
time in the case of CBK in respect of Parts B (i) (a) and C (ii)
of the Project, and in the case of AFC in respect of Part B (i)
(b) of the Project, together with such additional amounts as may
be required for the carrying out of such Parts of the Project,
under subsidiary financing agreements to be entered into between
the Borrower and, respectively, CBK and AFC on terms and condi-
tions which shall have been approved by the Association and the
Fund, including, except as the Association and the Fund may
otherwise agree, those contained in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall, in turn, cause CBK and AFC to
relend the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan lent to them
in accordance with sub-section (b) hereof, together with such
additional amounts as aforesaid, in the case of CBK to cooperative
unions and societies and through them to farmers and in the case
of AFC to farmers, under lending agreements to be likewise entered
into on the terms and conditions referred to in the said sub-
section (b).
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Financing Agreements in such manner as to protect the


﻿interests of the Borrower, the Fund and the Association and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor
amend, abrogate or waive, either of the Subsidiary Financing
Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall make available by way of
grant to MPB, CLSMB, CBK, AFC, KNFC and to the cooperative unions
and societies participating in the Project, such part of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan as shall be respectively
allocated to them in respect of Parts C (iv), C (v), I, B (iii), C
(i) and H (i) (b) of the Project.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association and the Borrower may
otherwise agree:
(a) the Project shall be carried out on the basis of the
Work Plans respectively approved by the IADP Coordinating Comr"it-
tee on May 10, 1978, and May 28, 1979, for the fiscal years
July 1, 1978, to June 30, 1979, and July 1, 1979, to June 30,
1980, and of Work Plans to be prepared and approved as hereinafter
provided in respect of the fiscal year July 1, 1980, to June 30,
1981, and of each subsequent fiscal year during the carrying out
of the Project;
(b) each proposed Work Plan shall have the contents de-
scribed in Part A of Schedule 5 hereto, shall be accompanied by
the information described in Part B thereof and shall satisfy the
criteria and conditions set forth in Part C thereof;
(c) each proposed Work Plan for a fiscal year shall be
prepared in consultation with the Association, and not later than
the March 1 preceding the commencement of the fiscal year to which
it relates, the Borrower shall submit such proposed Work Plan to
the Association for its final review and comment, and shall make
such revisions thereto as may be appropriate having due regard to
such review and comment; and
(d) upon the revision, if any, of the proposed Work Plan as
aforesaid, and not later than the April 15 preceding the com-
mencement of the fiscal year to which it relates, the Borrower
shall submit such proposed Work Plan to the IADP Coordinating
Committee for its approval. Within 15 days of the date of such
approval, the Borrower shall submit the final and approved text
thereof to the Association and the Fund.


﻿- 10 -
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall take such action as may
be necessary to strengthen MOCD so as to enable it to carry out,
in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.01 (a) hereof,
those Parts of the Project for which it is responsible.
(b) For the purposes of sub-section (a) hereof, but without
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, in agreement with the
Association and except as it may otherwise agree:
(i) by June 31, 1980, develop proposals for the
reorganization of MOCD, analyzing the current
structure, organization and staffing of MOCD and
the objectives to be achieved by the reorganiza-
tion, and specifying the criteria upon which the
detailed reorganization plan referred to in para-
graph (ii) below shall be formulated;
(ii) by October 30, 1980, formulate and approve a
detailed plan for the reorganization of MOCD,
including recommendations as to its organization
and administrative structures and as to the number,
grading and responsibilities of its staff, together
with a schedule for the implementation of such
recommendations; and
(iii) carry out such reorganization plan in accordance
with the implementation schedule set forth therein.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure coordination of
the activities of the agencies involved in carrying out the
Project and, to this end, shall by not later than April 30,1980,
or such later date as the Association may approve, expand the
membership of the interministerial projects coordinating committee
(formerly referred to as the interministerial coordinating commit-
tee) established in accordance with the provision of Section 3.03
(a) of the Development Credit Agreement (Integrated Agricultural
Development Project) between the Borrower and the Association
dated July 9, 1976, so that such committee, chaired by the Perma-
nent Secretary of the MOA, shall include the following members:
Permanent Secretaries or their duly authorized rcpresentatives of
the Office of the President and of the Ministries of Finance, of
Economic Planning and Development, of Cooperative Development, of
Livestock Development, of Transport and Communications and of
Water Development, and, in addition, the Director of Agriculture
(MOA), Commissioner for Cooperative Development and the general
managers of AFC, CBK, CLSMB, KNFC and MPB.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The committee shall meet on such occasions, not being
less than twice a year, as may be required for the performance of
its duties at the request of its secretary who shall be the Chief,
PMED. The committee shall act on terms of reference satisfactory
to the Association. In particular, but without limitation thereto,
the committee shall approve each proposed Work Plan prior to the
June 1 preceding the fiscal year to which it relates, and shall
approve semiannual reports on the Project, review Project progress
and resolve differences among agencies participating in the
Project.
(c) In the event that any agency of the Borrower involved in
the Project fails substantially to comply with the Work Plan at
the time in force, the Chief, PMED, shall advise such agency
accordingly and consult with the agency involved. If this fails to
resolve the problem, the Chief, PMED, shall bring the matter to
the attention of the chairman of the committee who shall promptly
refer the matter to the committee for final decision.
Section 4.06. (a) Overall responsibility for implementation
of the Project shall be vested in the PMED, under the direction of
the IADP   Coordinating Committee. In particular, the duties of
PMED shall be:
(i) to coordinate at national, provincial and district
levels, the planning and implementation of the
Project, including preparation of proposed Work
Plans, procurement and distribution of farm inputs,
purchase of equipment, construction of buildings,
Project staffing, credit facilities, marketing of
Project farmers' output and accounting for Project
expenditures;
(ii) to monitor closely the implementation of the
Project; and
(iii) to provide the necessary data to the Development
Planning Division of MOA to enable it to evaluate
the socio-economic impact of the Project.
(b) PMED shall be directed by a suitably qualified and
experienced person (herein called the "Chief, PMED") who shall
report:


﻿- 12 -
(i) on administrative matters and on technical agricul-
tural matters within the jurisdiction of the MOA,
to the Director of Agriculture; and
(ii) on matters affecting the Project which lie outside
the jurisdiction of the MOA and on policy matters,
to the Chairman of the IADP Coordinating Committee.
(c) The Borrower shall ensure that PMED shall at all times
be adequately staffed to carry out the duties set out in the
foregoing paragraph (a). For such purposes PMED's staff shall
include a project coordinator, a systems analyst, a planning
officer, an administrative officer, a senior accountant, two
Provincial and eleven District Coordinators and monitoring and
evaluation staff. Such staff shall in each case be suitably
qualified and experienced, and shall, in the case of the project
coordinator, be employed exclusively in respect of the Project.
The project coordinator shall be appointed, in consultation with
the Association, not later than April 30, 1980, or such later date
as the Borrower and the Association may agree.
Section 4.07. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) employ internationally recruited experts and consultants
whose job or services description, retaining agency and duration
of services shall, except as the Borrower and the Association may
otherwise agree, be as set out in Schedule 6 hereto, and whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment,
including terms of reference, shall be satisfactory to the Associ-
ation; and
(b) recruit, or cause to be recruited, suitably qualified
and experienced staff whose employing agency, status and number
shall, except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, be as set out in Schedule 7 hereto and whose job descrip-
tions shall in the case of field credit officers and other senior
staff be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 4.08. (a) For the purposes of Part B (i) (a) of
the Project, the Borrower shall by not later than June 30, 1980,
or such later date as the Association may agree, make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association for the purchase and distribution
of farm inputs to farmers through cooperative unions and socie-
ties. Such arrangements shall initially be made by the cooperative


﻿- 13 -
unions or societies concerned with responsible distribution
agencies and, following implementation of the recommendations
referred to in sub-section (b) hereof, with KNFC.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MOCD to carry out the study
provided for under Part B (ii) of the Project by not later than
May 31, 1980, or such later date as the Association may agree
upon terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and shall
promptly submit the recommendations set forth in such study to the
Association for its comment. Upon agreement of such recommenda-
tions by the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall take
such action, and shall cause KNFC to take such action, as may be
necessary for their prompt implementation.
Section 4.09. Prior to the construction or rehabilitation of
any rural access roads under Part D of the Project, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment
detailed proposals for such construction or rehabilitation,
including a review of the condition of the classified roads to be
serviced by the rural access roads and the program, if any, of the
Borrower for the rehabilitation of the classified roads.
Section 4.10. For the purposes of Part K (iii) of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower, through MOCD, shall, by December 31, 1980, or
such later date as the Association may agree, submit a detailed
investment program relating thereto to the Association for its
approval.
Section 4.11. For the purposes of Part I of the Project, the
staff referred to in Section 4.07 (b) hereof shall include field
credit officers and support staff for each field office of CBK
therein referred to, together with two additional credit officers
at CBK headquarters to provide coordination and support.
Section 4.12. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan to be used exclusively
for the Project.


﻿- 14 -
Section 4.13. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Fund, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall, through PMED, maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall, through PMED,
prepare a brief semiannual report as at December 31 and a compre-
hensive annual report as at June 30 in each fiscal year in respect
of Project performance during such year, in such detail as the
Association may request. The December report shall analyze and
review progress, as well as difficulties, if any, arising in
Project implementation and shall recommend appropriate remedial
action. The June report shall analyze actual performance in
meeting the physical and financial targets as set forth in the
Work Plan in respect of such fiscal year, and the reasons for any
substantial discrepancies. In particular as regards crops har-
vested in such fiscal year, utilizing farm inputs provided under
the Project, the June report shall refer to actual physical input
performance for the production year completed in such fiscal year
compared with input targets for that production year as set forth
in the relevant Work Plan. The December and June reports shall be
respectively submitted to the IADP Coordinating Committee by not
later than the following March 31 and September 30 for its
approval and, following such approval, shall be promptly copied to
the Association and the Fund; (iii) shall enable the Association's
and the Fund's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iv) shall, through
PMED, furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the Fund Loan and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) By not later than August 31 in each year, the Borrower
shall cause CBK, in consultation with MOCD, to prepare an Annual


﻿- 15 -
Review of the eligibility of each cooperative society and union
proposed for inclusion in the Work Plan for the following fiscal
year, including each such union's and society's credit standing
and limit, taking account of and evaluating inter alia its finan-
cial condition and creditworthiness, and adequacy of management,
including systems and procedures for credit approval, supervision
and collection and auditing arrangements, such Review to be copied
to the Association and the Fund.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 4.14. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained separate records, adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of each of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall cause PMED: (i) to maintain accounts
and fiscal statements for each fiscal year based on such records
showing the consolidated operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of all of such departments and agencies;


﻿- 16 -
and (ii) to furnish such financial statements, signed by the
Chief, PMED, to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of such fiscal
year.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Office of the
President, MOA, MOCD, MOW, MWD, MLD, CBK, the cooperative socie-
ties and unions participating in the Project, AFC, MPB, CLSMB and
KNFC to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices their opera-
tions and financial conditions.
(b) The Borrower shall cause each of the foregoing agencies
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (including, as
appropriate, balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of each of the
foregoing and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. In respect of all expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account and the
Fund Loan Account on the basis of certificates of expenditures in
accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, the Borrower shall cause the
department or agency concerned: (i) to maintain separate accounts
in respect of such expenditures; (ii) to retain until five
years after the Closing Date all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts, salary slips and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures and shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to examine such accounts and records; and (iii) make
arrangements satisfactory to the Association for audit of such
accounts.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take such action as may be necessary to
ensure that the fees charged to the users of cattle dips operated
by or on its behalf shall be sufficient to recover the costs of
operation of such dips:


﻿- 17 -
(i) in the case of cattle dips constructed or rehabili-
tated under the Project, as from the date of such
construction or rehabilitation; and
(ii) in the case of all other cattle dips in the Project
Area, as from January 1, 1982, or such later date
as the Borrower and the Association may agree.
(b) The Borrower, in consultation with the Association,
shall review the level of such fees not less than annually to
verify compliance with the provisions of sub-section (a) hereof.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take such action as may
be necessary to supplement the supply of breeding stock from the
sheep and goat breeding centers included in the Project by the
quantity necessary to satisfy the aggregate demand for such stock
from farmers in the Project Area as projected in approved Work
Plans.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall cause all rural access
roads constructed or rehabilitated under Part D of the Project in
the Districts of Lamu, Taita and Kajiado to be designated as
special purpose roads whose construction and maintenance shall
accordingly fall within the budgetary responsibility of MOA.
Section 5.07. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that all rural
access roads constructed or rehabilitated under Part D of the
Project will be adequately maintained and repaired in accordance
with sound engineering and financial practices, and that all
funds, facilities, services and other resources required therefor
will be provided, as and when needed.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that all rural water supply
systems provided under Part E of the Project shall be operated and
maintained in accordance with Section 4.03 of the Rural Water
Supply Project Loan Agreement.
Section 5.08. (a) To the extent that the Borrower or any of
its agencies exercises any control over the prices paid to farmers
for livestock and livestock products, and for maize, pyrethrum,
sunflowers, cotton and other agricultural products, the Borrower
shall ensure that such prices continue to be maintained at appro-
priate levels, taking into account providing farmers adequate
incentives to produce such products, or other economically viable
agricultural products, in accordance with sound agricultural


﻿- 18 -
practices. For such purpose, the Borrower shall continue to review
prices for such agricultural products annually.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views with each other as to how the factors described in
the foregoing paragraph (a) would influence existing agricultural
product prices, and each shall provide the other such information
in its possession as may be relevant to the application of such
factors.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall ensure that tariffs for each
rural water supply system provided under Part E of the Project
shall be set and collected in accordance with Section 4.04 of the
Rural Water Supply Project Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:
(i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any loan (including the Fund
Loan) made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
apply if: (A) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions consis-
tent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified
in subparagraph (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery on behalf of
the Borrower of the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action and all other
conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Fund Loan pur-
suant to the Fund Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of
this Agreement) have been duly fulfilled; and the Fund has
appointed the Association as Cooperating Institution to administer
the Fund Loan on terms and conditions acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
Section 7.02. The date Jvk     I   I [   , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article V
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
Section 7.04. If: (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall have
come into force and effect and the Development Credit Agreement
shall have failed to come into force and effect by the date
specified in Section 7.02 of this Agreement or a later date
established by the Association for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions; or (ii) the entire principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account and all charges which
shall have accrued on the Credit shall have been paid before the
Fund Loan Agreement shall have terminated, then, notwithstanding
the provisions of Sections 12.04 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions, the Development Credit Agreement shall be deemed to be, or
to remain, in force and effect but only to the extent required for
the purpose of implementing the Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly


﻿- 20 -
settlement of matters of mutual interest to the parties there-
under, subject to such modifications of the Development Credit
Agreement as shall be agreed between the Borrower, the Association
and the Fund for such purposes.
Section 7.05. If: (i) the Fund Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms before the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have terminated; or (ii) the Association shall notify
the Borrower that its appointment as Cooperating Institution under
the Fund Loan Agreement has terminated, the provisions of this
Agreement shall, to the extent that they relate to the Fund Loan,
forthwith terminate.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                             963 22003
Nairobi                             FOREIGN NAIROBI
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 21 -
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan
1.   (a) The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Fund Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items in each
Category to be financed by the Association exclusively in the case
of expenditures referred to in paragraph 4 (e) hereof and by the
Association and the Fund jointly in the case of all other expendi-
tures:
Amount of the   Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Fund Loan          % of
(Expressed       Allocated      Expenditures
in Dollar     (Expressed in       to be
Category         Equivalent)   SDR Equivalent)     Financed
(1) Civil works:                                      89%
(a) force                  0              0
account
(b) other          1,000,000        300,000
civil
works
(2) Vehicles and        1,700,000        250,000      100% of for-
equipment                                        eign expen-
ditures and
89% of local
expenditures
(3)  (a) Fertilizers                                  75% of for-
and pesti-                                  eign expen-
cides in                                    ditures and
respect of:                                 55% of local
expenditures
(i) Part        300,000         35,000
B (i)
(a);
and


﻿- 23 -
Amount of the   Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Fund Loan           % of
(Expressed       Allocated      Expenditures
in Dollar     (Expressed in        to be
Category         Equivalent)   SDR Equivalent)      Financed
(ii) Part          9,000          1,000
B (i)
(b)
of the
Project
(b) Acaricides       323,000         23,000       68% of for-
and chemi-                                   eign expen-
cals in                                      ditures and
respect of                                   42% of local
Part A (i)                                   expenditures
of the
Project
(4) Operating costs,    1,160,000        163,000       55%
including the
staff salaries
set out in
Schedule 7
hereto
(5) Consultants'          235,000         50,000      100% of for-
services and                                      eign expen-
technical                                         ditures and
assistance                                        89% of local
as set out in                                    expenditures
Schedule 6
hereto
Subtotal      4,727,000        822,000
(6) Uncommitted (to    41,273,000     12,178,000
be allocated to
Categories (1)
through (5) in
the Work Plans)
TOTAL        46,000,000     13,000,000


﻿- 24 -
(b) The allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund
Loan shown in Categories (1) through (5) above represents the
allocation made by the approved Work Plan for the fiscal year
1978-79 (as from December 1, 1978) and the fiscal year 1979-80,
including contingencies. Upon the receipt by the Association of
the Work Plan, approved by the IADP Coordinating Committee, for
the fiscal year 1980-81 and for each subsequent fiscal year, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan out of
Category (6) to Categories (1) through (5) to the extent required
to meet the expenditures proposed to be allocated thereto by such
Work Plan and which are eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(c) The table contained in Schedule 8 to this Agreement sets
forth such Categories and percentages and the amounts in respect
of the Credit and the Fund Loan which are expected to be allocated
for withdrawal from time to time pursuant to Work Plans over the
Project period.
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policies of the Association and the Fund.


﻿- 23 -
Amount of the   Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Fund Loan          % of
(Expressed       Allocated      Expenditures
in Dollar     (Expressed in       to be
Category         Equivalent)   SDR Equivalent)     Financed
(ii) Part          9,000          1,000
B (i)
(b)
of the
Project
(b) Acaricides       323,000         23,000      68% of for-
and chemi-                                  eign expen-
cals in                                     ditures and
respect of                                  42% of local
Part A (i)                                  expenditures
of the
Project
(4) Operating costs,    1,160,000        163,000      55%
including the
staff salaries
set out in
Schedule 7
hereto
(5) Consultants'          235,000         50,000     100% of for-
services and                                     eign expen-
technical                                        ditures and
assistance                                       89% of local
as set out in                                    expenditures
Schedule 6
hereto
Subtotal      4,727,000        822,000
(6) Uncommitted (to    41,273,000     12,178,000
be allocated to
Categories (1)
through (5) in
the Work Plans)
TOTAL        46,000,000     13,000,000


﻿- 24 -
(b) The allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the Fund
Loan shown in Categories (1) through (5) above represents the
allocation made by the approved Work Plan for the fiscal year
1978-79 (as from December 1, 1978) and the fiscal year 1979-80,
including contingencies. Upon the receipt by the Association of
the Work Plan, approved by the IADP Coordinating Committee, for
the fiscal year 1980-81 and for each subsequent fiscal year, in
accordance with the provisions of Section 4.03 of the Development
Credit Agreement, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
reallocate the amounts of the Credit and the Fund Loan out of
Category (6) to Categories (1) through (5) to the extent required
to meet the expenditures proposed to be allocated thereto by such
Work Plan and which are eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Fund Loan.
(c) The table contained in Schedule 8 to this Agreement sets
forth such Categories and percentages and the amounts in respect
of the Credit and the Fund Loan which are expected to be allocated
for withdrawal from time to time pursuant to Work Plans over the
Project period.
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policies of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of
any such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit or the Fund Loan decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, in-
crease or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policies of the Association and the Fund.


﻿- 29 -
Part E:   Rural Water Supply
The provision by MWD in consultation with MOA of rural
water supply systems and the carrying out of water resource
planning studies.
Part F:   Resource Conservation
The carrying out by MOA of a resource conservation program,
including the provision of training, the construction of conserva-
tion works, the provision of tools and equipment and the estab-
lishment of small tree nurseries.
Part G:   Small Scale Irrigation
The rehabilitation by MOA of five rice production irrigation
schemes in the Lower Tana basin, including the provision of
Project offices, workshops and housing, earthmoving equipment,
vehicles, pumping facilities and staff.
Part H:   Cooperative and Settlement Development
(i) The strengthening by the Department of Settlement within
the Office of the President and by MOCD of the coopera-
tive unions and societies through: (a) the expansion of
MOCD senior headquarters staff and field staff; (b) the
expansion and recruitment of qualified staff to be
employed by cooperative societies and unions; and (c)
the provision of vehicles.
(ii) The carrying out by the Department of Settlement within
the Office of the President of settlement planning
studies.
Part I:   Credit Institution Development
The establishment by CBK of about 12 field offices and the
procurement by CBK and AFC of office equipment, vehicles and the
provision of incremental staff.
Part J:   Extension Services
The strengthening by MOA and MLD of their extension services
facilities, including the provision of additional extension staff
and of vehicles, communication facilities, office buildings,
staff housing and office equipment.


﻿- 30 -
Part K:   Training
(i) The re-equipping by MOA of about three Farmer Training
Centers, and the provision of equipment for two mobile
cinema training units, of buses, of two kitchen labora-
tories and of training facilities.
(ii) The provision by MOCD of management training for cooper-
ative union and society staff.
(iii) The preparation by MOCD of a detailed investment plan,
to be submitted to the Association for its approval in
accordance with Section 4.10 of the Development Credit
Agreement, for additional training facilities for staff
of MOCD, CBK, KNFC and cooperative unions and societies
and, following such approval, the implementation there-
of.
Part L:   Research and Development
(i) The expansion by MOA of the Mwea Tebere Research
Station including the construction of staff housing and
laboratories and the provision of equipment and vehicles
and training fellowships.
(ii) The strengthening by MOA of the economist unit within
its Research Division to assist research stations in the
Project Area in carrying out farm systems research.
(iii) The establishment by MOA of a Coconut Rehabilitation
Unit in the Coast Province, the development and rehabil-
itation of coconut and fruit tree nurseries and the
provision of related vehicles, equipment and staff.
(iv) The carrying out by MOA of a program of research into
pasture legumes and grasses in the Project Area.
Part M:   Project Management and Evaluation Division
The strengthening by MOA of PMED including the recruitment of
a Project Coordinator, a Systems Analyst, a Planning Officer, an
Administrative Officer and a Senior Accountant, two Provincial
Coordinators, 11 District Coordinators and monitoring and evalua-
tion staff, and the provision of vehicles and equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1985.


﻿- 29 -
Part E:   Rural Water Supply
The provision by MWD in consultation with MOA of rural
water supply systems and the carrying out of water resource
planning studies.
Part F:   Resource Conservation
The carrying out by MOA of a resource conservation program,
including the provision of training, the construction of conserva-
tion works, the provision of tools and equipment and the estab-
lishment of small tree nurseries.
Part G:   Small Scale Irrigation
The rehabilitation by MOA of five rice production irrigation
schemes in the Lower Tana basin, including the provision of
Project offices, workshops and housing, earthmoving equipment,
vehicles, pumping facilities and staff.
Part H:   Cooperative and Settlement Development
(i) The strengthening by the Department of Settlement within
the Office of the President and by MOCD of the coopera-
tive unions and societies through: (a) the expansion of
MOCD senior headquarters staff and field staff; (b) the
expansion and recruitment of qualified staff to be
employed by cooperative societies and unions; and (c)
the provision of vehicles.
(ii) The carrying out by the Department of Settlement within
the Office of the President of settlement planning
studies.
Part I:   Credit Institution Development
The establishment by CBK of about 12 field offices and the
procurement by CBK and AFC of office equipment, vehicles and the
provision of incremental staff.
Part J:   Extension Services
The strengthening by MOA and MLD of their extension services
facilities, including the provision of additional extension staff
and of vehicles, communication facilities, office buildings,
staff housing and office equipment.


﻿- 30 -
Part K:   Training
(i) The re-equipping by MOA of about three Farmer Training
Centers, and the provision of equipment for two mobile
cinema training units, of buses, of two kitchen labora-
tories and of training facilities.
(ii) The provision by MOCD of management training for cooper-
ative union and society staff.
(iii) The preparation by MOCD of a detailed investment plan,
to be submitted to the Association for its approval in
accordance with Section 4.10 of the Development Credit
Agreement, for additional training facilities for staff
of MOCD, CBK, KNFC and cooperative unions and societies
and, following such approval, the implementation there-
of.
Part L:   Research and Development
(i) The expansion by MOA of the Mwea Tebere Research
Station including the construction of staff housing and
laboratories and the provision of equipment and vehicles
and training fellowships.
(ii) The strengthening by MOA of the economist unit within
its Research Division to assist research stations in the
Project Area in carrying out farm systems research.
(iii) The establishment by MOA of a Coconut Rehabilitation
Unit in the Coast Province, the development and rehabil-
itation of coconut and fruit tree nurseries and the
provision of related vehicles, equipment and staff.
(iv) The carrying out by MOA of a program of research into
pasture legumes and grasses in the Project Area.
Part M:   Project Management and Evaluation Division
The strengthening by MOA of PMED including the recruitment of
a Project Coordinator, a Systems Analyst, a Planning Officer, an
Administrative Officer and a Senior Accountant, two Provincial
Coordinators, 11 District Coordinators and monitoring and evalua-
tion staff, and the provision of vehicles and equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1985.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   Procurement of goods and civil works shall be bulked to the
maximum extent possible.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported, goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 32 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Kenya may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Kenya if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Kenya equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other goods manufactured in Kenya.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods


﻿- 33 -
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for road development in Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet,
Kilifi, Kwale and West Pokot, falling under the responsibility
of the Special Projects Branch of the Roads Department of MOTC,
shall be carried out by the Borrower by force account in accor-
dance with RARP procedures.
2.   All other civil works shall be carried out on the basis of
local competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's normal
procurement procedures.
3.   Acaricides included in Part A (i) of the Project may be
procured on the basis of solicitation of quotations from not less
than three suppliers for the particular sub-group of acaricides
recommended by MLD, of contract negotiation with suppliers submit-
ting responsive quotations and of contract award to one or more
such suppliers in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Association.
4.   Prior to the implementation of the KNFC reorganization study
under Part B (ii) of the Project, fertilizers and pesticides
(excluding acaricides) to be procured under contracts of an
estimated value of up to $100,000 equivalent may be procured by
the cooperative unions, or societies which are not members of a
cooperative union, participating in the Project on the basis of
local competitive bidding under the supervision of MOCD or, in
the case of farmers financed by AFC, under procedures satisfactory
to AFC.
5.   Vehicles to be procured under contracts of an estimated value
of up to $100,000 may be procured:
(a) in an aggregate value of up to $2,500,000 equivalent by
MOA, MLD, MOCD, MOTC, CLSMB, MPB, AFC, CBK and KNFC on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with the Borrower's
usual procurement procedures; and


﻿-34 -
(b) in an aggregate value of up to $600,000 equivalent by
the cooperative unions, or societies which are not members of a
cooperative union, participating in the Project on the basis of
solicitation of bids from not less than three suppliers and award
to the lowest evaluated supplier, under the supervision of MOCD.
6.   Other goods, not referred to in paragraphs 3 through 5
hereof, to be procured under contracts of an estimated value of
up to $25,000 and of an aggregate value of up to $100,000 equiva-
lent may be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with the Borrower's usual procurement procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modification in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 35 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Fund Loan
Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account or the Fund Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Following contract negotiation with acaricide suppliers in
accordance with Part C.3 hereof, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the
names of the suppliers to which it intends to award contracts, the
type and quantity of acaricides to be procured from each supplier,
the prices, the services to be provided in areas to be identified,
a report on the negotiations and on the evaluation of the negoti-
ated quotations and contract terms, and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended awards would be inconsistent
with the provisions of Part C hereof, or the other provisions of
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿-36 -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Terms
(Section 4.01 (b) and (c))
1.   Interest rates to be charged in respect of the relending of
proceeds of the Credit and the IFAD Loan and the maximum repayment
periods in respect thereof shall be as follows:
Part of
Project                            Minimum   Maximum   (including)
to which                           Annual   Principal    Maximum
Lending                           Interest  Repayment     Grace
Relates     Creditor   Debtor       Rate     Period      Period
B (i) (b)   Kenya      AFC            5.5% 15 Yrs.      5.5 Yrs.
B (i) (a)   Kenya      CBK            5.5% 15 Yrs.      5.5 Yrs.
C (ii)
C (ii)      CBK        Coop-         10%     2 Yrs.         -
erative
Societies
B (i) (a)   CBK        Coop-          9%    12-21 Mos.      -
erative
Unions
B (i) (a)   Coopera-   Coop-         10%    11-20 Mos.      -
tive       erative
Unions     Societies
B (i) (a)   Coopera-   Farmers       11%     9-18 Mos.      -
tive
Societies
B (i) (b)   AFC        Farmers       11%     9-18 Mos.      -
2.   The interest rates set out in paragraph 1 hereof shall,
subject to the approval of the Association, be reviewed and
modified to conform to any changes in the interest rate structure
resulting from the Government's current review of general interest
rate policies.


﻿- 37 -
3.   Subject to CBK's annual review relating thereto, CBK shall
extend to cooperative unions participating in the Project renew-
able 5-year term lines of credit against which such unions shall
be entitled to repay and borrow in accordance with the provisions
of this Schedule.
4.   Loans to farmers by cooperative societies or AFC shall be
repayable in the shortest period consistent with the farmer's
ability to repay in view of the crop for which credit is extended,
and amortization payments shall be calculated so as to coincide as
far as practicable with the times at which the farmer's crops, if
properly cultivated, are expected to be sold. Repayment and grace
periods in the cr,2dit chain between such cooperative societies or
unions and CBK shall be correspondingly adjusted.
5.   The loan agreements utilized by CBK and AFC and by coopera-
tive unions and societies for lending to farmers shall be in
form acceptable to the Association and the Fund.
6.   CBK and AFC shall take such action as may be required in
order to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement.
7.   The farmer shall be a recognized holder of the land cul-
tivated by him and shall have made arrangements satisfactory to
the proposed creditor to repay any existing debts.
8.   CBK and AFC shall each establish a separate Revolving Fund
Account on their books to which shall be credited all repayments
of principal in respect of loans made respectively by CBK and AFC
to cooperative societies, cooperative unions or farmers in respect
of the Project. CBK and AFC shall apply the amount of such
repayments to meeting their respective principal repayment obliga-
tions under the CBK and AFC Subsidiary Loan Agreements and, as to
the balance thereof, in relending to cooperative unions and
societies and to farmers in respect of Part B (i) of the Project
upon the terms set forth in this Schedule.


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 5
Annual Work Plans
(Section 4.03 (b))
Part A:   Contents of Work Plans
(1) Project budget for the period covered including:
(a) in respect of each agency involved in the Project:
(i) proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on vehi-
cles, equipment, and civil works); (ii) all
proposed incremental recurrent expenditures on
salaries, fuel, repairs and maintenance directly
attributable to Project activities; and (iii) a
list by position of Nairobi-based staff employed
full-time on Project activities and whose salaries
would be financed through the Project;
(b) proposed provincial administrative budgets and
district administrative budgets for the Project,
each detailing at the Provincial and District
levels, respectively, the items specified in (a)
(i), (ii) and (iii) above; and
(c) estimated credit for farm inputs and labor to be
supplied respectively by AFC and CBK.
(2) Work, procurement, staffing and training plans, includ-
ing programs for each District involved.
(3) Proposed transfers from Category (6) to Categories (1)
through (5) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 (a) of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement to reflect expenditures,
including contingencies, to be made under the proposed
Work Plan. Such transfers shall take into account any
amounts allocated pursuant to previous Work Plans and
not expected to be utilized thereunder.
(4) Any proposed variation from the procurement procedures
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(5) The amounts to be lent to AFC and CBK, respectively,
pursuant to the Subsidiary Financing Agreements.


﻿- 39 -
Part B: Supporting Information to be Furnished
(1) In respect of each District in the Project Area proposed
to be assisted in the period to which the annual Work
Plan relates, the following:
(a) Name of District.
(b) Number of participati.ng farmers and the basis of
their selection.
(c) Soil and water conservation measures proposed for
the District.
(d) Description of annual increase in physical develop-
ment (number of hectares) divided among crop
development (with full details regarding each
crop), livestock development and other activities.
(e) Description of exact input package recommended
for each crop and livestock enterprise.
(f) Quantities of farm inputs required.
(g) Name of each cooperative society and union which
will supply farm inputs and marketing services
under the Project.
(h) Location of each proposed input distribution
and marketing center.
(i) Numbers of extension staff and ratio to parti-
cipating farmers.
(j) Training program for farmers in current and subse-
quent years, and names of Farmer Training Centers
responsible for such training.
(k) Sources and amounts of farmers' credit divided
as to:
(i) CBK; and
(ii) AFC.


﻿- 40 -
(1) Amounts of credit subdivided as to purposes,
e.g.:
(i) fertilizers;
(ii) seed;
(iii) insecticide;
(iv) labor;
(v) land preparation; and
(vi) other.
(m) Plans for artificial insemination.
(n) Male breeding stock requirements for each sheep and
goat breeding center.
(2) The following information aggregated from the foregoing:
(a) Number of Districts.
(b) Number of farmers, both new and repeating.
(c) Anticipated physical development of crops and
livestock.
(d) Inputs required, analyzed as to fertilizers, seed,
insecticide and others.
(e) Credit amounts by source.
Part C:   Criteria and Conditions on Which Approval of Proposed
Work Plans by the IADP Coordinating Committee will be
Based
(1) Suitability of locations proposed for inclusion in the
Project, taken as a group, will be determined on the
following bases:
(a) Selection of locations having been undertaken by
the District IADP Coordinating Committees.


﻿-41-
(b) Due regard shall be given to equitable distribution
of the benefits of the Project.
(c) There would be a progressive increase in partici-
pating locations and farmers during the Project
implementation period.
(2) Suitability of individual locations proposed for inclu-
sion in the Project will be determined on the following
bases:
(a) General    -    adequacy  of infrastructure, e.g.,
water, access roads, markets.
(b) Crops      -    assured availability of processing
facilities.
(c) Livestock       -    (i) Management of cattle dips
by the Veterinary Depart-
ment.
(ii) Availability of hand
sprayers or dips and
acaricide (either already
supplied or to be sup-
plied).
(d) Cooperative
Unions and
Societies      - (i)     All participating coopera-
tive societies and unions
should be capable of
ensuring the supply of
credit, inputs and market-
ing services for all crops
as well as cattle and
milk.
(ii) All participating coopera-
tive societies and
unions should, in the
judgment of MOCD and of
CBK, satisfy criteria as
to financial condition and
creditworthiness and
adequacy of management, on


﻿- 42 -
the basis of the CBK
Annual Review referred to
in Section 4.13 (c) of the
Development Credit Agree-
ment.
(e) Inputs         -     (i) Maize, cotton seed and
sunflower seed proposed to
be used should be tested
and have at least 80%
chance of germination.
(ii) Fertilizer      type   and
proposed rate of applica-
tion should conform
to locally recommended
packages.
(f) Number of
extension
staff          -    (i) Enough junior agricultural
assistants (JAAs) and
technical assistants (TAs)
to ensure 2 hours of
instruction per Project
farmer per month, through
individual visits and
group meetings but, in any
event, enough to achieve a
ratio of not less than one
of the same for each 200
farmers in the location
involved.
(ii) Technical Officer for
the division in place.
(g) Training       -    (i) All   participating   JAAs
and technical assistants
should have received
orientation training for
the Project, or would be
scheduled for such train-
ing during period covered
by proposed Work Plan.


﻿- 43 -
(ii) All farmers participating
in the Project for the
first time should have
received Project orienta-
tion training or would
receive such training
during    such   period .
(h) Credit
sources        -    (i) The   main   channel    of
credit for farm inputs
would be the cooperative
societies and unions.
(ii) AFC would make seasonal
loans where no suit-
able cooperative lending
channel exists or where
participating farmers are
already AFC clients or are
applying to AFC for
medium or long-term loans
at the same time.
(3) The following events will be conditions of a location's
inclusion in the Project:
(a) Appointment of Coordinators: Provincial and    Dis-
trict Project Coordinators would be appointed
not later than June 1 preceding the participating
of the District in a fiscal year, provided that in
respect of the Work Plan for the fiscal year
1980-81, these appointments would be made before
April 30, 1980.
(b) Strengthening of Cooperative Activity   to  include
necessary input supply and marketing services for
all Project crop and livestock activity would be
included in the proposed Work Plan.
(c) Ordering of Farm Inputs: Provision would be made
for ordering farm inputs not later than six months
before anticipated date of use.


﻿-44 -
(4) The Borrower shall:
(a) cause District Work Plans for each District in-
cluded in the Project Area to be prepared from
September through November in each year for
the following fiscal year by the District IADP
Coordinating Committee, working in liaison with the
District Development Committee;
(b) cause the District Work Plans to be submitted to
the Chief, PMED through the Provincial Director of
Agriculture by the District Agricultural Officer
who shall, by signing the District Work Plan,
certify that it has been considered and approved by
the District IADP Coordinating Committee; and
(c) cause the District Work Plans to be consolidated
in the following December and January by MOA into a
proposed Work Plan for the Project Area for such
fiscal year, working in consultation with each of
the other agencies of the Borrower responsible for
the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 45 -
SCHEDULE 6
Technical Assistance to be Retained
Agency by Whom         Duration of
Retained             Services
1.   Type of Experts
(i) Two artificial in-    MLD, HQ                5 years
semination experts                          each
(ii) Two plant breeders    MOA, Mwea-Tebere       3-4 years
and two agronomists Station                 each
(iii) TwG economists        MOA                    3-4 years
each
(iv) One agrostologist     MOA, Kitale Research   3-4 years
Station
2.   Type of Consultancy Services
(i) Studies on dry        MWD                    6 man-months
area water re-
sources in Coast
Province
(ii) Survey of soils       MOA                    9 man-months
and ground water
resources and
agricultural
potential of the
Tana River flood
plain
(iii) Study of coopera-     MOCD                  20 man-months
tive employment
including the study
as to the estab-
lishment of a
Cooperative Ser-
vice Commission


﻿- 46 -
Agency by Whom        Duration of
Retained            Services
(iv) Studies on settle-   Office of the         30 man-months
ment planning,      President
physical and soil
surveys, staff
development, phy-
sical planning and
presettlement
planning
(v) Cooperative staff     MOCD                 54 man-months*
management and
other training
(vi) Design and super-     MWD                             **
vision of con-
struction of
rural water supply
systems
(vii) Supervision of        MOTC                            **
construction of
roads
*    To be extended following IDA approval of MOCD's detailed
investment program under Section 4.10.
**   To be determined during Project implementation.


﻿- 47 -
SCHEDULE 7
Project Staff to be Recruited
Senior Staff*    Junior Staff  Total
Ministries of Agriculture          18              393        411
and Livestock Development
Ministry of Cooperative            21              116        137
Development
Ministry of Transport              -                 5          5
and Communications
Ministry of Water Development      -                 1         1
Office of the President            -                 2         2
Cooperative Bank of Kenya          14               26        40
Limited
Agricultural Finance Corpora-       5               10        15
tion
Maize and Produce Board             4               44        48
Cotton Lint and Seed                2               86        88
Marketing Board
Kenya National Federation of        1               -          1
Cooperatives Limited
Cooperative Unions and             11              221       232
Societies
Total               76              904       980
*    Job group K or equivalent and above.


﻿- 48 -
SCHEDULE 8
Expected Allocation of the Proceeds of the
Credit and the Fund Loan
on the Basis of
Work Plans
Amount of the   Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Fund Loan          % of
(Expressed       Allocated      Expenditures
in Dollar     (Expressed in       to be
Category         Equivalent)   SDR Equivalent)     Financed
(1) Civil works:                                      89%
(a) force          3,000,000        900,000
account
(b) other          9,500,000      2,700,000
civil
works
(2) Vehicles and        5,500,000      1,400,000      100% of for-
equipment                                        eign expen-
ditures and
89% of local
expenditures
(3) (a) Fertilizers                                   75% of for-
and pesti-                                  eign expen-
cides in                                    ditures and
respect of:                                 55% of local
expenditures
(i) Part      5,225,000      1,520,000
B (i)
(a);
and
(ii) Part        275,000         80,000
B (i)
(b)
of the
Project


﻿- 49 -
Amount of the   Amount of the
Credit Allocated    Fund Loan          % of
(Expressed       Allocated      Expenditures
in Dollar     (Expressed in       to be
Category         Equivalent)   SDR Equivalent)     Financed
(b) Acaricides     3,000,000        800,000      68% of for-
and chemi-                                  eign expen-
cals in                                     ditures and
respect of                                  42% of local
Part A (i)                                  expenditures
of the
Project
(4) Operating costs, 12,000,000        3,400,000      55%
including the
staff salaries
set out in
Schedule 7
hereto
(5) Consultants'        2,500,000        700,000      100% of for-
services and                                     eign expen-
technical                                        ditures and
assistance                                       89% of local
as set out in                                    expenditures
Schedule 6
hereto
(6) Unallocated         5,000,000      1,500,000
TOTAL        46,000,000     13,000,000


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  J3A      day of          ,
198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


