Document of                                V
The World Bank                               .
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1808b-BR
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
February 13, 1978
Water Supply and Sewerage Division
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTSi/
Currency unit                         =  Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                               =  Cr$14.74 (August 1977)
UPC1.00                               =  Cr$213.80 (August 1977)
UPC1.00                               =  US$14.50  (August 1977)
MEASURES
1 mm = millimeter                     =  0.04 inches
1 cm = centimeter                     =  0.39 inches
1 m  = meter                          =  3.28 feet
1 km = kilometer                      =  0.62 miles
1 1  = liter                          =  0.26 US gallons
1 m3 = cubic meter                    =  264 US gallons
1 m3/sec = cubic meter per second   =  22.82 MGD = million US gallons per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNH        =  Banco Nacional da Habitacao
FAE        =  Fundos de Aguas e Esgotos
SFS        =  Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento
PLANASA    =  Plano Nacional de Saneamento
SABESP     =  Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
CETESB     =  Companhia de Tecnologla do Saneamento Ambiental
BANESPA    =  Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo, S. A.
CDS        =  Conselho de Desenvolvimento Social
CIP        =  Conselho Interministerial do Precos
FGTS       =  Fundo de Garantia de Tempo de Servico
UPC        =  Unidade Padrao de Capital
PAHO       =  Pan American Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The Brazilian government has followed a policy of frequent exchange
rate adjustment. The project cost in this report is based on
August 1977 exchange rates.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTTON AND TREATMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTE'NTS
Page No.
I.   THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR ....................                 I
Introduct'i on ...........   ........... I,e¢eossensootoeXosoeooeeooe     
Population . a. .................................                   1
Service Levels            ........ o.  ....    ..e ..o .....        2
Sector Objectives ...... O .......e.... ....oo   o o.....           2
Sector Development ...........................                      3
The Subsector - Sao Paulo State ......g ............-               5
Bank Objectives in the Sector ..................... .               6
II.   THE BORROWER - BNH ..... . ..............................                  7
Introduction ........... .  . . .  . ............e a a..            7
The Sanitation Finance System - SFS  ...............                7
IlI.   THE BENEFICL4RY - SABESP ....o.-               e. eo...............oa...   9
Bac.kground ... -....   .....................o ........    9
Previous Bank Loans   ..........................                    9
Organization ........................ ..............   10
Management and Personnel ..                  ........................   10
Accounting ....                 .     .......................   11
Billing and Collection          .       ....................   11
Auditing ... a.,. ....O .s. . o..........      ..... ..           11
Insurance e ..................... ...... ............    12
IV'.   DEMAND AND MARKET ASPECTS ..........         ..................... ,    a o    13
Introduction ................................                      13
Greater Sao Paulo Population Forecast   ... .......   13
Greater Sao Paulo Water Resources and
Their Multipurpose Use ................ . .. .   14
Present Situation of Greater Sao Paulo
Sewage Collection and Treatment   .            .................   17
Health Implications   .................                            18
Environmental Aspects  ..............................   18
Market .....    .v e... .....                                   19
This document has a estricied distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Table of Contents)
Page No.
V.   THE PROJECT ....oe .........e.......,..................       20
Background ............. ...o....... ...e.....e          20
Project Formulation .......................              20
Project Objectives ....................  .. 23
Project Description ........ ................            23
Complementary Works .........................            24
Project Costs ...........................                25
Financing ............................. . .......-       26
Implementation ................................          27
Procurement .........................                    28
Disbursements .,.................... ..OOC...            28
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................................       29
Introduction          .     .      .................,    29
The Borrower - BNH .. . . .....................    .     29
Fields of Operations ...... ...........                  29
Past and Present Financing      .................... -   30
Future Finances ................        .    ..          31
The Beneficiary - SABESP            ....   33
Introduction .............. .  ....                      33
Past and Present Finances ...................            33
Tariffs ...........................   .      ..    .     35
Future Finances ...................    . ......          37
Monitoring Indicators/Reporting Requirements ...         40
VII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ...............................             42
Introduction   .e.......................... .....        42
Population Benefited ......... .......                   42
Project Benefits ..............................          43
Internal Financial Rate of Return  ........              44
Average Incremental Cost ....................            45
Risk Analysis ....................................       46
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..............  ,    48
ANNEXES
1 -  Project Development
2  -  Financial Assumptions
3  - Additional Information in Project's File



CHAPTER I
THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Introduction
1101      The Government of Brazil has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a sewage collection and treatment project for Greater Sao Paulo, the country's
most populous city. This would be the fifth Bank loan in the water supply and
sewerage sector in Brazil. The first two loans (757 and 758-BR), for US$22
million and US$15 million, were made in 1971 to help develop the water supply,
sewerage and water pollution control facilities for Greater Sao Paulo. The
third loan for US$36 million (1009-BR) was made to the Banco Nacional da
Habitacao (BNH) in 1974 to finance water supply projects in the State of Minas
Gerais, under the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA). The fourth loan, for
US$40 million (1309-BR), was also made to BNH in 1976 to finance additional
water supply and sewerage projects in the State of Minas Gerais under the
PLANASA. Loans 757 and 758-BR were fully disbursed in June 1977 and Loans
1009 and 1309-BR are progressing satisfactorily.
1.02      The proposed project has a total cost of about US$1.2 billion.  The
proposed Bank loan of US$110 million would finance less than 9% of the total
project cost and about 30% of the foreign exchange cost. The project represents
the first stage (1978-1983) of the Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and
Treatment Master Plan prepared by a group of consultants headed by the Brazilian
company Hidroservice, in collaboration with Metcalf & Eddy (USA) and Professors
G.A. Rohlich and J. Malina of Texas University and G.V. Marais of Cape Town
University, South Africa. A Bank mission consisting of Messrs. L.V. Chang,
C.G. Todd, J. Culagovski and Ms. J. O'Connor appraised the project in
December 1976; a supplementary mission took place in September 1977 in order
to review final arrangements for project financing and a new schedule for
project execution.
Population
1.03      Brazil, divided into 23 states, one federal district and four
territories, has an area of more than 8.5 million square kilometers. In
1977 Brazil's population is estimated at 113 million. The average popula-
tion density is 13.3 inhabitants per square kilometer and population growth
averaged 2.9% p.a. over the last 20 years. The recent urban population 1/
growth rate (5.5%) was 80% above the high rate of overall population increase,
and Brazil's urban population increased from a 1940 level of 30% of total
population to 36% in 1950. In the 1960s it reached the 45% mark (56% in 1970)
and officials are predicting that it will reach two-thirds by 1980. The
estimated 1977 urban population is about 68 million or 60% of the total
population.
1/   Brazilian-official definition of the "urban population" is based on
administrative status (a county seat, "sede do municipio," is an urban
place) rather than a minimum population size.



-2-
Service Lev-l
10LA      In 1977 the water supply and sewerage sector in Brazil is character-
ized by the following service levels:  about three-quarters of t-,e urban
population have access to pdbiic water supply and about one-third are served
by public sewerage. The Northeast region has been less favored; only 29% of
the houses are connected to a water supply system. During the last six years,
water supply to the urban population has substantially increased, providing
services to an additional population of about 25 million. During the same
period, however, sewerage has lagged far behind, with services provided to an
additional seven million people only. Water pollution is now of great concern,
especially in those urban concentrations where improper waste disposal has
already exceeded the self-purification capacities of the receiving waters.
1.05      In the rural areas, particularly in the Northeast region, there is
virtually no basic sanitation; out of 7.8 million houses, only 2X5% have water
connections; 2% have septic tanks; 23% use rudimentary latrines; and 75% have
no excreta disposal facilities at all. Only 27% of the schools in the rural
areas have access to drinking water. Many industries have to bear the burden
of constructing their own water supply or otherwise locate in areas which are
not the most suitable with respect to labor costs and markets.
1.06      Statistics on mortality and morbidity rates, concerning waterborne
diseases are unavailable and therefore cannot be compared with other countries.
Nevertheless, there are incomplete indicators pointing to high infant mortality
rates and the incidence of deaths due to waterborne diseases resulting from a
lack of adequate water services. Contamination of water sources due to lack
of sewerage services and proper sewage disposal are the main causes for
water-related diseases.
Sector Objectives
1.07      Urban infrast.-cture, particularly water supply and sewerage
facilities, have not kept pace with Brazil's development. This inadequacy in
services has been due primarily to institutional problems and the method of
financing water and sewerage services. In the past, responsibility for these
services in Brazil has been entrusted to the municipalities, 4.e., the level
of government that had always been weakest in technical, organizational and
financial capability. In 1970 less than 60% of the urban population had
access to public water supply and less than 30% were served by sewerage. To
remedy the situation of inadequate water supply and sewerage services, the
Federal government in 1971 entrusted the Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH)
with establishing a national sanitation plan (PLANASA). The PLANASA target
for 1980 was to connect 80% of the urban population to a public water supply
system and 50% to a sewerage system. The program was estimated to cost about
US$1.5 billion at 1971 prices for water supply and US$1 billion for sewerage
works.
1.08      The PLANASA program was prepared on the basis of a global feasibil-
ity study for each state, which was to be updated systematically with detailed



subproject costs as designs were prepared. All states were to establish a
State Water Company responsible for construction and operation of the water
supply and sewerage systems, and to enter into a "PLANASA agreement" with BNH
stipulating service level targets as well as levels of State and BNH partic-
ipation. One of the main objectives of PLANASA was to obtain economies of
scale by providing water and sewerage services through State Water Companies
instead of through a large number of municipal companies. A basic PLANASA
principle is that the State Water Companies must always maintain an adequate
financial position; that is, revenues would at least equal operating and
maintenance costs plus debt service payments. The PLANASA program anticipated
that investments would be debt-financed 50% from BNH and 50% from a state
revolving fund, Fundo de Aguas e Esgotos (FAE), created for this purpose
(para. 2.04).
1.09      In 1975 the PLANASA objectives and conditions of implementation were
redefined. By then it had become clear that the overall population targets
for water supply could be achieved by expanding systems in the major metro-
politan and industrial centers, without serving most of the smaller communities
where urgent needs for water supply exist. The new objectives for 1980 are to
provide water services to 80% of the population in at least 80% of all communi-
ties, sewerage services to all the state capitals and main urban centers, and
simple sewerage services to medium and smaller cities. Also, to alleviate the
financial burden of the State Water Companies, BNH's interest rates were reduced
from a range of 3% to 8% to between 2% and 7%, after monetary correction,
depending upon each State's tax-generated revenues.
1.10      In the rural areas, several programs have been organized at the
Federal and State levels to provide water supply and sewerage services for
small communities. In particular the Ministry of Health of Brazil has an
ongoing program called "Special Public Health Service Foundation" (FSESP).
Through this program, the poorest municipalities receive subsidies for the
implementation of their water supply and sewerage projects. At the State
level, the Health, Planning, and Agriculture departments usually have some
involvement in water and sewerage activities, assisting the small communities
through their rural development programs. Recently BNH also entered into the
rural sector offering funds at 2% below the normal interest rate of 2%-7%
(para. 1.08) plus monetary correction, and the Federal Government is also
providing grant funds to the State Water Companies for the implementation of
water supply and sewerage systems in the small communities of the rural
areas.
Sector Development
1.11      All the States have entered into PLANASA agreements with BNH and
have created State Water Companies. By now, more than 2,000 municipalities,
out of the country's total of 3,942, are benefitting from the PLANASA program
and 75% of the urban population 1/ is served with water supply.
1/   Status of Water Supply and Sewerage Services in Latin America and the
Caribbean Area at the End of 1976 - World Health Organization - Annual
Report and mission's finding.



- 4 -
1.12      Regarding the PLANASA targets for 1980 in the water supply subsector,
these can probably be achieved. Information on population and investment
costs is well developed through previous experience. However, the sewerage
and sewage treatment activities present difficulties in their implementation.
As indicated in para. 1.04, sewage collection service levels are still low.
Investment costs for sewerage services can vary greatly and are difficult to
estimate, except in cases where the engineering designs are at an advanced
stage for a particular project. This is the case in the Second Minas Gerais
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1309-BR under which the Compania de
Saneamento de Minas Gerais (COPASA), is preparing a sewage collection tariff
study for the Metropolitan Center of Belo Horizonte where a sewerage project
will be implemented.
1.13      The Federal and State authorities in charge of environmental pollu-
tion controls regulate the permissible pollution loads to be discharged in
the water courses. On October 30, 1973 the Federal Government created the
Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente (SENA) in the Ministry of Interior
in order to monitor changes in the environment, establish air and water
quality standards, enforce pollution control legislation, and coordinate all
federal pollution control programs. Several laws and decrees were issued
thereafter providing regulations for the enforcement of pollution control;
On January 15, 1976, the government issued a regulation to classify inland
water resources according to their uses, and limit their contamination by
setting up maximum permissible physical, chemical and biological concentration.
1.14      The enforcement of the pollution control laws will demand large
investments, as well as substantial operational and maintenance expenditures
for sewage collection and treatment. For those cities needing sewage treat-
ment the total costs of the services, including water supply, could be so
high that tariff increases will not be sufficient to recover these costs and
capital contributions from the State and/or the Federal Government might be
required, in addition to BNH and FAE debt financing. During negotiations,
BNH agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank for its comments a proposal
for a national tariff system for sewage collection and treatment. This pro-
posal should be based on the results of the studies referred to in para 6.19
and section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement for Loan 1309-BR (Section 5.03, Loan
Agreement).
1.15      The cost of the PLANASA program has been much higher than was
expected in 1971. Revised figures for the program (1971-1983) predict a
total investment of about US$6.6 billion, i.e., 2.6 times the initial esti-
mate. Although PLANASA investments have been somewhat enlarged there have
also been important cost overruns due to poorly prepared subprojects and
substantial price increases due to inflation which particularly affected
the construction industry in Brazil during recent years. These problems
are being solved through better preparation of subprojects and technical
and financial reviews by the State Water Companies and BNH.



- 5 -
1416      Many State Water Companies are facing financial difficulties, due
mainly to the lack of authority to increase their tariffs and consequently some
State Governments have been subsidizing the operational expenditures of the
companies. Tariff increases must be approved by the National Interministerial
Price Committee (CIP). A new legislation has been proposed by BNH which is
expected to ensure systematic tariff review in accordance with the State Water
Companies' financial needs.
1.17      To strengthen the management and organization of the State Water
Companies, BNH organized early in 1975 a technical assistance program (SATECIA)
for the State Water Companies with the Panamerican Health Organization (PAHO)
acting as management consultant. The program is being developed by 36 special-
ists, including 12 foreign experts supplied through PARO. The first three-year
program is already completed and has developed about 29 information systems to
standardize management, financial and accounting information. SATECIA has
also completed a diagnosis of all the State Water Companies. A second two-year
program (1978-1979) will implement the information systems in each State Water
Company.
1.18      BNH initiated in 1974 a National Sanitation Training Program to
train people for the operation and maintenance of all the water and sewerage
works to be built and operated under PLANASA. Up to December 1976, 37,000
persons had benefited from this successful program and by the end of 1980,
40,000 additional persons will have received training.
The Subsector - Sao Paulo State
1.19      The State of Sao Paulo complied with the requirements for the
PLANASA program by: creating the Cia. de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao
Paulo (SABESP) in 1973 as the State Water and Sewerage Company; agreeing to
earmark up to 5% of its annual budget for the state portion of the financing
(FAE, para. 2.04); and signing a PLANASA agreement with BNH. Since the
creation of SABESP, about 200 municipalities throughout the State of Sao Paulo
(out of 281 with more than 5,000 inhabitants) have joined SABESP.
1.20      Greater Sao Paulo (consisting of the municipality of Sao Paulo and
36 surrounding municipalities) houses some 11 million inhabitants or about 10%
of the Brazilian population and is the most industrialized area of Brazil.
SABESP has substantially increased the water supply services of Greater Sao
Paulo, reaching about 85% of its population, a percentage which is expected to
increase to 90% by 1978. However, sewage collection is provided to less than
38% of its inhabitants. In addition, and this is of even greater concern,
only 4% of the collected sewage receives primary treatment. Thus, Greater Sao
Paulo's ground water supply is exposed to contamination from open discharges
and septic tanks and its water courses are heavily polluted by the discharge
of raw domestic and industrial sewage. As a result, the city has one of the
highest infant mortality rates in the country: in 1976 it reached about 80
per 1,000 births and the incidence of water-related diseases has been increas-
ing rapidly. Meningitis and gastroenteric disturbances are of great concern
in the area. The segments of the population mostly affected by the contamina-
tion of the waters are the low-income groups which live in areas without
sewerage services and areas alongside the polluted water courses.



- 6 -
1.21      As in the rest of Brazil, public investment for sewerage has lagged
behind population growth in Greater -Sao Paulo, making the water pollution
control problems more acute each year. Water and environmental pollution
problems are now of serious concern, hence the recent Sao Paulo Pollution
Control Law of September 1976. The most important elements of this law are:
(i) the classification of water bodies in Sao Paulo State according to use and
maximum pollution levels allowed; and (ii) the imposition of legal sanctions
on individuals and institutions that exceed these pollution levels.
1.22      The Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental (CETESB) is the
State's environmental pollution control enforcement agency for the Sao Paulo
Pollution Control Law of September 1976. CETESB is a well-known and presti-
gious institution in the field of sanitary engineering in Brazil. Its main
activities are research, training, preparation of standards, testing of
materials and acting as implementation control agency for other institutions
by approving project design and supervising project construction.
Bank Objectives in the Sector
1.23      In accordance with the Bank's policies of helping the development
of projects aimed at improving the living conditions of the poor, Bank lend-
ing in the sector is oriented towards improving the health environment by
providing water supply and sewage collection and treatment services to the
urban population and towards helping institution-building of the sector
agencies.
1.24      The proposed project would support the government's objectives of
alleviating health hazards threatening Greater Sao Paulo's population by
increasing the levels of sewage collection from the areas inhabited by the
poorest population and by controlling, through sewage treatment plants, the
heavily polluted water courses of the area. It also includes a technical
assistance component for the beneficiary to strengthen its organization
and for personnel training and for the Borrower to study and propose a
national tariff system for sewage collection and treatment.



-7-
CHAPTER II
THE BORROWER
Introduction
2.01      The Borrower for the proposed loan will be the Banco Nacional
da Habitacao (BNH), which has also been the Borrower for Loans 1009-BR and
1309-BR for the First and Second Water Supply and Sewerage Projects for Minas
Gerais. BNH was established by Federal law in August 1964. Since 1967 it has
been under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior; it has legal
personality, is tax exempt and is administratively and financially independent
of the Ministry. Its major activities have been to finance low-cost housing
programs, urban development and sanitation. BNH does not operate as a commer-
cial or savings bank.
2.02      BNH is administered by a Board of Directors (Conselho de Administra-
cao) and an Executive Committee (Diretoria). The Board comprises the President,
nine counselors and the six Directors of the Executive Committee. The latter
is composed of the President of the Board and six Directors, all appointed by
the President of the country with the approval of the Federal Senate. BNH
has 11 regional Agencies (Delegacias) to supervise its activities at the
State level. Since September 1967 BNH has had a Department (Superintendencia),
called the "Superintendencia do Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento" (S/SFS),
which is responsible for water and sewerage activities. The S/SFS consists
of three divisions (Assesorias): Analysis and Planning, Technical Control,
and Finances (see Annex 1, Attachment 1).
The Sanitation Finance System - SFS
2.03      Under PLANASA, each State must sign an agreement with BNH to be
eligible for BNH financing. This agreement is based on water supply and
sewerage feasibility studies prepared by the State. BNH's funds are made
available in the form of loans. These loans are made to BNH's financial
agents in the State concerned, for on-lending to the State Water Company or to
the State Government to supplement the latter's ability to finance the State
Water and Sewerage Fund (para 2.04). Debt service payments are guaranteed by
the State Government.
2.04      State Government funds are made in the form of grants and deposited
in a State bank account known as the "State Water and Sewerage Fund" (FAE),
for lending tc the State Water Company. FAE is a revolving fund continually
replenished by appropriations from the State Government and by the debt service
payments of the State Water Company. BNH and FAE funds are provided for each
subproject. In Sao Paulo, the Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo, S.A. (BANESPA),
the state-owned commercial bank, is both administrative agent for FAE and
financial aaent for BNH and the State Government.
2.05      In each state, project design and construction are supervised for
BNH by its Teclanical Supervisory Agency (O.T.). In Sao Paulo the O.T. is
the Companhia de Tecnologia do Saneamento Ambiental (CETESB) (para. 1.22).



- 8 -
2.06      Up to 1975 the PLANASA program did not develop as expected, due
to: poor organization and management in the State Water Companies resulting
ir -nderestimated project costs and investment programs, constraints of
interrelated activities such as poor engineering studies and cost estimates,
and a shortage of materials and equipment. In addition, SFS activities were
very much centralized at its headquarters in Rio de Janeiro, where it often
received inaccurate information from the State Water Companies further delay-
ing the projects' review and approval by an overloaded staff. Most of these
problems are now being resolved. During implementation of the two Bank-
financed projects with BNH, many discussions were held with S/SFS staff in
order to solve the above-mentioned problems. In early 1976, BNH issued new
regulations decentralizing PLANASA and delegating more responsibility and
authority to the regional offices in order to speed up implementation.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from BNH that the Bank will
be given an opportunity to exchange views on any modification to S/SFS
organization and guidelines for PLANASA's development (Section 5.02, Loan
Agreement).



-9-
CHAPTER III
THE BENEFICIARY
Background
3.01      The beneficiary and executing agency for the proposed project will
be the Cia. de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo (SABESP). SABESP,
which was created in December 1973 for the purpose of carrying out the National
Sanitation Plan (PLANASA) in the State of Sao Paulo, is well-known to the Bank
through Loans 757/758-BR (para. 3.03). SABESP was created by the amalgamation
of several different companies whose basic functions were to supply water and
sewerage services to the Greater Sao Paulo area. The principal companies
were: COMASP - Cia, Metropolitana de Agua de Sao Paulo; SANESP - Cia.
Metropolitana de Saneamento de Sao Paulo; SAEC - Superintendencia de Agua e
Esgoto da Capital; and FESB - Fomento Estadual de Saneamento Basico. SABESP
took two years to be fully consolidated because it inherited managerial and
financial difficulties from the previous companies and because it suffered
initially from weak management, poor organization and overstaffing.
3.02      SABESP's new administration, appointed in 1975, has substantially
improved its organization and personnel. Great strides have been made in
planning, cost control, management information and training of personnel for
the expansion and achievement of PLANASA's targets in the State of Sao Paulo.
SABESP is presently the largest State Water Company in Brazil and the fourth
largest company carrying out public sector activities in the whole country.
Previous Bank Loans
3.03      In June 1971 Loans 757/758-BR were signed with SAEC and SANESP,
predecesors of SABESP, for a total amount of US$37 million. The loans were
for the expansion of the city of Sao Paulo's water distribution system, and
sewerage and pollution control. After SABESP's creation, the Bank signed a
Loan Assumption Agreement with the company in December 1974. The two loans
were delayed in their implementation as a result of: (i) late start of
disbursements because counterpart State funds were not available on time;
(ii) delays resulting from the consolidation of the various companies into
SABESP; and (iii) change of the project elements financed by Loan 758-BR due
to a redesign in the pollution control project. Both loans were fully dis-
bursed by June 1977.
3.04      Loan 757-BR, for a total amount of US$22 million, was made to SAEC,
a company in charge of the water distribution system for the Sao Paulo munici-
pality only (Greater Sao Paulo includes 37 municipalities, of which the
Sao Paulo municipality is by far the largest with an estimated population in
1977 of 7.8 million). The scope of the project was to extend water supply
services to an additional population of about two million, and to expand
services to 70% of the inhabitants of the municipality of Sao Paulo, or 5.5
million people, by 1974. The physical works consisted of an expansion of the



- 10 -
water distribution network, additional storage reservoirs, and metered house
connections. The objectives of this project have not only been successfully
achieved but also substantially expanded. In 1977, more than 7 million
people, or 90% of the population of the Sao Paulo municipality, or 85% of
Greater Sao Paulo, have water supply services, i.e., an increase of about 3.5
million additional people served, over the 1970 levels when Loan 757-BR was
formulated.
3.05      Loan 758-BR, for a total amount of US$15 million, was made in June
1971 to SANESP, a new authority owned by the State Government and established
in 1970. SANESP's objective was to collect and dispose of the bulk sewage
produced by the population of Greater Sao Paulo and control the pollution of
the water resources in the area. The objective of the project was the improve-
ment of the health conditions of Greater Sao Paulo's population, and the general
environmental conditions in the area. The works consisted of the construction
of sewage interceptors, pumping stations, sewage transmission lines, and the
improvement of existing primary sewage treatment plants. In 1973 the project
was redesigned and the loan was reduced by US$3 million to a total of US$12
million because of lower than estimated cost. Up to 1975, when the new
administration took over, this project advanced very slowly because of manage-
ment deficiencies in SANESP. Once the new administration took over, the
physical implementation of the project continued according to an amended
project description accepted by the Bank in April 1976, which included sewage
collectors to feed the sewage interceptors built under the project. During
this time, the Master Plan for sewage collection and water pollution control
in Greater Sao Paulo was the subject of further study by experienced local and
international consultants, giving origin to the present project. The new
Master Plan was developed, using as a basis all the existing works which had
been completed according to the amended project description of Loan 758-BR.
Organization
3.06      SABESP is owned by the State of Sao Paulo.  The 6 members of the
administrative council and its president are appointed by the State Governor
for a term of four years (Annex 1, Attachment 2). The administrative council
meets once a month or whenever is necessary and their main functions are to
orient and advise the company, to appoint the directors (of which there are
five, each in charge of a department, and to review and approve the general
finances of the company. SABESP is organized to serve the whole State
through two regions: Region I serves Greater Sao Paulo and a few isolated
cities and Region II the rest of the State. This organization is satis-
factory to the Bank.
Management and Personnel
3.07      In its early years, SABESP suffered from a deficient management.  At
present, SABESP has a highly-qualified top management, and modern management
techniques are used for planning, budgeting, financial control, and operations.
An extensive training program exists for employees at all levels. SABESP
presently has about 12,500 employees, or 6.25 employees per thousand connec-
tions, which is an acceptable ratio.



- 11 -
3.08      The construction department of SABESP is well organized and has
proved to be an efficient unita  Since 1975 it has undertaken a massive
program of works for Greater Sao Pauto art 'the rest or the Stacee which is 70%
completed.  The Financial Department is staffed v"Ifbl Competent, professional
managers, who have implemented satisfactory accounting and budgeting systems.
The Planning Department which is administered by an internationally-respected
sanitary engineer, has satisfactori'y coordinated plans for lfuture programs.
The current President of SABESP, during his appointment as Administrative
Director, reorganized the Administrative Department, presided over a substan-
tial reduction of personnel, established personnel controls, enlarged tioe
training program, and was instrumental in consolidating many of SABESP's
widely-dispersed locations into four main offices.  Communication between
offices is still a problem, but to a lesser degree than in previous years.
Accounting
3.09      SABESP uses the BNH chart of accounts which provides commercial
financial statements acceptable to the Bank.  The chart also provides analy-
tical data for cost control by cost center responsibility and by nature of
expenditure (personnel, transport, materials, etc.).  Its fixed assets are
revalued annually in accordance with Decree 1598 of December 26, 1977, a
methodology which is acceptable to the Bank. SABESP has also installed a
biennial budgeting system covering capital expenditures, operating, mainte-
nance and administrative costs, and revenue. The comparison of budgeted and
actual data is normally given to management on a monthly basis. Beginning
in January 1977, the monthly processing was transferred to SABESP's computer.
Delays occurred due to programming problems, and a program exists to correct
these delays.
Billing and Collection
3.10      The biliing and collection procedures, installed with the assistance
of PAHO, are satisfactory.  Bills are processed by computer every two months
for all residential and commercial customers with low water consumption whereas
large volume users and bulk water sales to industries and municipalities in
the metropolitan Sao Paulo region are processed monthly. Payment of bills may
be made at any banking institution authorized by SABESP.  All such banks trans-
fer the funds to the Banco Estadual de Sao Paulo (BANESPA) for consolidation in
SABESP°s headquarters account. SABESP's water cut-off policy is adequate, a
fact attested to by the March 1977 receivables, which represented the equival-
ent of 3.3 months' billing.
Auditing
3011      SABESP has an internal audit division, satisfactory to the Bank,
which reports to the President, It is performing systems and internal control
audits, as well as operational audits, and is now expanding its staff to cover
all regional operations. In addition, SABESP has had its annual financial
statements audited by Arthur Andersen & Co., a firm acceptable to the Bank.



- 12 -
Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that this external audit
policy will be continued, and that a copy of the external auditor's report,
will be sent to the Bank within four months of the end of each. calendar
year (Section 4.06, Loan Agreement).
Insurance
3.12      SABESP carries a fairly wide variety of insurance programs, covering,
for example, group life insurance; fidelity bonding of cashiers and warehouse
personnel; third party liability for both operational (ruptured mains) and
construction accidents; materials and imported equipment and their transfer
between SABESP units; extended fire coverage on buildings and contents in-
cluding specific provisions for accidents at the chlorine tanks, digestors,
gas containers, etc. of the water and sewage treatment plants. Assurances
were obtained at negotations that SABESP will maintain insurance coverage
acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.03, Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
CHAPTER IV
DEMAND AiND MARKET ASPECTS
Introduction
4.01      This chapter analyzes the present and future situation of Greater
Sao Paulo's sewage collection and treatment services for its population and
industry, as well as the multipurpose use of its water resources. It also
estimates the pollution loads through the year 2000, and the increased damage
to the water courses, as well as the health hazards posed to the city's popu-
lation that would materialize in the case the works under the project were not
carried out.
Greater Sao Paulo Population Forecast and Water Demand
4.02      Greater Sao Paulo, with a current population of about 11.0 million
inhabitants grouped into 37 municipalities, had a population growth of 8.7%
p.a. between 1960 and 1970, with immigration from the country's rural areas
accounting for 69% of this growth. The population of Greater Sao Paulo is
expected to grow at 5% per year until 1980, at 3.2% from 1980 to 1990, and at
2.6% thereafter until the year 2000. These rates assume a lower immigration
due to the development of industrial centers outside Greater Sao Paulo, and
saturation densities of population within the city. Projections on water
demand made by SABESP (domestic and industrial, including unaccounted - for
water) assume an increase in both domestic and industrial per capita water
consumption. Domestic consumption is presently low compared to other Latin
American cities and is projected to increase from 240 liters per capita per
day (lcd), including losses, in 1980 to 330 lcd by the year 2000. These
projections will be reviewed periodically since they are essential for planning
the successive stages of the water supply and sewage collection and treatment
master plans for Greater Sao Paulo. The following table shows Greater Sao
Paulo's estimated population and total water demand through the year 2000.



- 14 -
Greater Sao Paulo Population Forecast and Water Demand
Year:                       1975     1980 /1  1985      1990      1995     2000
Total Population            9.6      12.3      14.3     16.7      19.0      21.6
(millions)
Population Served          70%       90%       91%      92%       94%      95%
SABESP's Water             15.6 /2  35.9      46.7      60.5      76.5     95.0
Production (m3/sec)
Per Capita Demand           n.a.   280        310      340       370      400
(domestic and industrial)
(1/capita x day)
/1   After 1980 it is expected that SABESP will control all water sources
including domestic and private industrial sources.
/2   Does not include water produced by private sources.
Greater Sao Paulo Water Resources and Their Multipurpose Use
4.03      One of the main reasons for Greater Sao Paulo's development as the
main industrial center of Brazil is the utilization of its water resources
in the generation of hydroelectric power. Since the beginning of this century,
a series of works have been implemented to collect and store water for the
generation of electric power, taking advantage of the topographical situation
of Greater Sao Paulo. The city is located on a plateau at about 750 meters
above sea level and about 40 km from the Atlantic ocean (Scheme No. 4). To take
advantage of this situation, the Guarapiranga Reservoir and the first Cubatao
Hydroelectric Power Plant were built in 1907, the Billings Reservoir in 1927
and subsequently the Tiete River was dammed in Pirapora. In this way the
total water flow of the Tiete River, its tributaries, and the Pinheiros River
reversed their flow through the pumping stations of Traicao and Pedreira,
finally discharging into the Billings Reservoir. Later, a second hydroelectric
power plant was built at Cubatao. All these works were built and are oper-
ated by the privately-owned LIGHT company which has federal government con-
cessions to operate this system.
4.04      The development of Greater Sao Paulo increased its human and indus-
trial water demand. Already in 1929 the city was making use of water from
the Guarapiranga Reservoir which was originally built for electric energy
purposes. The same has happened since 1958 with the Billings Reservoir from
which the main industrial municipalities in Greater Sao Paulo have been taking
water for consumption. SABESP compensates LIGHT for the use of water from the
Guarapiranga Reservoir.



SCHEME NO. 4
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
GREATER SAO PAULO PRESENT AND FUTURE WATER RESOURCES
}<gtJLrrRl %\Vrr 8                     ~~~~SABESP
PIRAPORA DAM  -~~~~~~~~uo 3UGUERI                                                      CANTAREIRA PROGRAM
PIRAPORA DAM                _19 7 63/sec
1977 - 6m !e
PUMPING STATION                                                    1980- 16.4m3/sec
E. DE SOUZA                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1990 - 33,n3/sec
RASGAO POWVER PLANT                                                                 ,ERf      l        VB1 Nl.ErE RiVER
1-1'NATURAL RIVER FLOWVF?
87 m3/SEC     
PUMPICAO STATION  wGREATER SAO PAULO
PUMPING STATION
~~~PEDREIRA
SABESP
GUARAPIRANGA PROGRAM
1977  9m3/sec          GUARAPIRANGA RESERVOIR
1980-10.5m3/sec  /                                                     BILLINGS RESERVOIR
1990  15.1rn3/sec
2000  37.7m3/sec
746.0 in.
~. p                                                       POWER PLANT 
716mr.                       715.5mr.             /PVEPL
698.0 rn./
672.0                                                          PUMPING STATIONPUPIN  STTIO
672.0 rn.                               -~~~                   PUMPING STATPINISTATIO
TRAICAO             PEDREIRA
PIRAPORA DAM
CUBATAO POWER PLANT
CUBATAO UNDERGROUND
POVVEP PLANT
WNorlcd Batik -18276



- 16 -
4.05      Greater Sao Paulo's water production programs include the importation
of water from outside Sao Paulo's water basin, mainly from two sources: the
Canta5eira and the Guarapiranga systems. SABESP is presently "importing"
6.5 m /sec of water from the Cantareira system and until 1977 had invested
about US$250 million in this project. Table 4.05 shows SABESP's projected
investments through the year 2000 for additional water production to be
obtained from these two outside sources only.
Table 4.05
Projected SABESP Investments for Water Production
from Outside Sources
(in US$ millions at September 1977 prices)
Sources                  1980     1990      2000        Total
Cantareira                    430       894                  1,324
Guarapiranga                  151        58       64           273
Total                    581      952       64         1,597
Volume of imported water compared to present water flows into the Billings
Reservoir through the year 2000 are shown in Table 4.06.
Table 4.06
Water Flow Rates in Sao Paulo's Water Basin
----Total Water - m /sec----
1975    1980    1990    2000
Water flowing into Billings Reservoir
including all works performed by LIGHT           87       87       87       87
Water imported by SABESP from
other water basins which will also
flow into Billings Reservoir                      7       18       39       62
Total Water Available                        94       105      126      149
4.06      From the above tables, it can be seen that through the year 2000,
SABESP will import a substantial amount of water into the Greater Sao Paulo
basin. This water will be available for the generation of additional hydro-
electric energy. Therefore the electric energy sector would benefit directly



- 17 -
from the investments made by SABESP. However, the value of the benefits to
be received by the energy sector has not been quantified.
4.07      The Federal and State authorities are aware of this issue.  An
agreement was signed on June 15, 1976 between the Ministry of Mining and
Energy of Brazil and the Sao Paulo State government, the main objectives
being: (i) to improve the sanitary conditions of the rivers and water bodies
around Greater Sao Paulo; (ii) to prevent and resolve critical situations
which might arise from the use of water from the rivers and water bodies
of Greater Sao Paulo; (iii) to conform with the planning and implementation
of the water supply and sewerage, and sewage treatment projects in Greater
Sao Paulo and the Santos region; and (iv) to advise, through studies and
recommendations, by means of joint actions on the part of federal, state,
municipal and other involved entities, on the operational adequacy of the
Greater Sao Paulo water resources, keeping in mind their multipurpose uses.
To achieve the above objectives the following two committees composed of
representatives of various federal and state institutions were formed: an
"Executive Committee" to carry out special studies and a "Special Committee"
to make decisions.
4.08      The above agreement is a first step in planning the multi-purpose
uses of the water resources in the Greater Sao Paulo area; however, up to
now, no study has been carried out on the economic and financial costs and
benefits of the multipurpose-use of water resources. The Federal Govern-
ment will furnish the Bank, before December 31, 1979, with the results of
the studies intended to be carried out by the Executive Committee on the
technical, economic and financial aspects of the multipurpose use of water
resources in the Greater Sao Paulo area.
Present Situation of Greater Sao Paulo's Sewage Collection and Treatment
4.09      In relative terms, about the same percentage of the population
of Greater Sao Paulo is served today by sewage collection as in 1950. At
that time 933 km of sewage collectors served about 700,000 people, or 32%
of the population. In 1977, 5,000 km of collectors served four million
people, or 38% of the Greater Sao Paulo population. However, in absolute
numbers, the size of the non-serviced population increased from 1.5 million
in 1950 to 6.5 million in 1977, thereby creating a serious situation for
public health.
4.10      The present Greater Sao Paulo sewage treatment situation is even
worse when considering that only 4% of the total sewage undergoes primary
treatment. The remaining 96% is disposed untreated into the nearby rivers and
water bodies as well as into the open storm water canals. Greater Sao Paulo
rivers are presently composed of 25% sewage and 75% water; if nothing is done,
it is estimated that in ten years this proportion would change to 75% sewage
and 25% water.
4.11      Greater Sao Paulo's lack of basic sanitation is seen to be even more
serious when one realizes that the city occupies a surface area of about 3%
of the total area of the state. However, about 10% of the total Brazilian
population lives in Greater Sao Paulo, which accounts for 50% of Brazil's
total industrial production and 70% of the state's total production.



- 18 -
Health Implications
4.12       According to a study made by the Sao Paulo University, the absence
of basic sanitation in Greater Sao Paulo is largely responsible for the inci-
dence of infant mortality due to diarrhea during the period 1968-1970; in fact,
diarrhea represented 81% of all infectious diseases occurring in children
of less than one year old in Greater Sao Paulo. The study disclosed that only
29% of the houses in which the affected children lived were connected to a
sewerage system.
4.13       The evolution of infant mortality in Greater Sao Paulo and Sao Paulo
municipality is shown in Annex 1 Attachment 3.  Infant mortality in Greater Sao
Paulo decreased during the period 1940-1961 due to better medical care and im-
proved sanitary conditions. However, the inadequate water supply, aggravated
by the lack of sewage disposal, resulted in an increase in infant mortality be-
tween 1961-1970, with indexes worse than those of 1957 for Greater Sao Paulo and
worse than those of 1950 for the Sao Paulo Municipality. Studies by the Sao
Paulo University had shown the interrelation between the lack of basic sanita-
tion and the occurrence of transmissible diseases. Failure to supply adequate
water to the population results in a high incidence of illnesses of hydric
origin, such as diarrhea, parasitosis, etc. Lack of adequate sewage disposal
aggravates this problem by the diffusion of parasitic diseases through the
contamination of water and food.
Environmental Aspects
4.14      The rivers crossing Greater Sao Paulo currently receive the bulk of
the domestic sewage and industrial wastes from some 1,000 industries located
in the metropolitan area. They play the role of an open sewer and are severely
polluted and in a septic condition due to an excessive organic load which pro-
duces offensive odors and health hazards.
4.15       Estimates of sewage flows and pollution loads in terms of BOD (foot-
note I to Attachment 4 in Annex 1)and its relation to river flows through the
year 2000 is shown in Annex 1 Attachment 4, based on the assumption that no
sewage treatment is carried out at all. It demonstrates that the dilution,
or relation of river flows to sewage flows, decreases from 3=0 in 1975 to 0.4
in the year 2000 and that the concentration of BOD in the river increases from
80 mg/l to 250 mg/l over the same period.
4.16       Besides health hazards, the present situation also produces the
following ill effects:
(i) The decrease in riparian land values around the Billings Reservoir,
an area which could be of great value for urban expansion and
recreational purposes;
(ii) Risks to health, and higher maintenance and operational costs of
the water treatment plants which have their source in the Billings
Reservoir and the Cubatao River;



- '09
(iii)  The discharge of raw domestic and industrial wastes into the
rivers and low flows in parts cf the ri-ver system. provide an
opportunity for solids to settle ftor organic matter to decompose,
and for odors to form. The cost of dredging has increased during
recent years and will continue to increase in the future if the
discharge of untreated liquid waste continues.
Market
4,17      An increased demand for expansion of sewage collection and treatment
in Greater Sao Paulo is certain due to the following factors:
(i) The awareness of the population of health hazards incurred
by lack of adequate sewerage services.
(ii) The existing policy of cross-subsidization. in water and sewerage
billing which permits the medium-low and low-income population
who already have water house connections to be connected to the
sewerage system (these people constitute 91% of new customers).
The current policy, based on social criteria, establishes a3
maximum sewerage charge for minimum water consumption (15 m /month/
connection) amounting to up to 3% of the minimum salary prevailing
in the state.
(iii) The high density of population together with the nature of the
soil composition make it impossible to substitute the present
sewerage system by septic tanks.
(iv)   A federal law of the Health Ministry makes it compulsory for
every household to be connected to a public sewerage system
wherever one exists.
(v) Charges for domestic sewage treatment will be included in the
water and sewerage bill, whereas charges for industrial sewage
treatment will be established on the basis of volume and levels
of concentration of polluting materials. Significant economies
of scale associated with the treatment plants make it much
cheaper for individual induistries to pay a charge for collective
treatment than to build and operate their own treatment plants
(paras. 5.13(ii) and 7412).
(vi)  A state law, introduced in September 1976 by the State of Sao
Paulo for the control of environmental pollution, prohibits the
discharge of untreated sewage into water courses.



- 20 -
CHAPTER V
THE PROJECT
Background
5.01      Water pollution control was identified as a basic health and environ-
mental problem in the Greater Sao Paulo area from the early 1950s, when both
population and industrial growth exceeded the city's financial and institu-
tional capacity to cope with sanitation problems. These health and environ-
mental problems were the results of: an inadequate sewerage system; the
discharge of raw sewage causing heavy pollution of the water courses; and the
absence of regulations controlling water pollution.
5.02      During the last 25 years four master plans for the control of water
pollution in Greater Sao Paulo have been developed. All these plans were
reviewed by the Sao Paulo State authorities and implementation was begun on
some of them (Annex 1). In 1975 SABESP invited three Brazilian consulting
engineering firms to prepare a final master plan. Hidroservice, one of the
largest consulting firms in Brazil was selected in association with the US
firm of Metcalf & Eddy. The consultancy firms received the advice of
Professors G.A. Rohlich and Joseph Malina, Jr., of Texas University and G.V.
Marais, of Cape Town University (South Africa).
Project Formulation
5.03      The basic conditions in formulating the plan were that the existing
facilities be used to their maximum capacity and that water quality indicators
for the rivers and water bodies comply with the state law regulations on
water pollution in relation to present and future pollution loads from both
population and industry sources.
5.04      Preparation of the master plan required 120 man-months and was
completed in July 1976. The study took into account the quality of the rivers
as well as the size of the present population, industrial development, and
population projections for the year 2000. The projections included an esti-
mation of the increase and expansion of polluting industries, the territorial
distribution of both population and industry, the domestic and industrial
sewage flows by year up to the end of the century, and the possible locations
for the final disposal of the treated effluents.
5.05      The master plan reviewed all the past studies and presented three
alternatives. (A description of the alternatives and their advantages and
disadvantages is presented in Annex 1.)  Alternative I, known as the Juqueri
solution, proposed three treatment plants, one of them located in the Juqueri
valley outside Sao Paulo's waterbasin. Alternative II, known as the Five
Plants solution, proposed five treatment plants, all of them located within
the boundaries of Sao Paulo. Alternative III, known as the Barueri solution,
proposed three treatment plants, one of them in the region of Barueri located
at the city limit and inside Sao Paulo's waterbasin. When these alternatives



- 21 -
were compared for their present cost value there was no significant difference.
Additional considerations, such as avoiding pollution of other water basins,
impact on the environment, access to treatment plants and operational safety
of the plants, final disposal of sludge, expropriation of land, availability
of labor, etc., were taken into account in selecting the final alternative.
The study selected alternative III, i.e., the Barueri solution, for which a
program of physical implementation was developed.
5.06      The alternative selected divides Greater Sao Paulo into three large
regions, each one with a secondary treatment plant. In the year 2000, 88%,
or about 19 million inhabitants, will be connected to the sewerage system and
95 m3/sec of domestic and industrial effluents will be biologically treated,
eliminating 85% of the organic load through the activated sludge process in
the treatment plants. The treatment plants will be moduled so that they can
be implemented by stages without necessitating a change in technology and
basic design.
5.07      The process of decontamination in the city will start with a wide
collection system covering the whole urban area. Clandestine connections to
the storm water canal and sewage pits would be eliminated. The collection
system would be connected to the main interceptors running along the nearby
rivers, which would carry the sewage to the treatment plants of Barueri, ABC
and Suzano (see Map No. 1).
5.08      The "activated sludge" process has been selected as the most appro-
priate biological sewage treatment for this project because it represents the
lowest capital and operational cost for such a large volume of sewage to be
treated; the effluent quality of an activated sludge process is generally
better than that of other processes; the process is more flexible and it
requires less land for the same treatment capacity.
5.09      The master plan for Greater Sao Paulo sewerage and sewage treatment
through the year 2000 proposes the following progressive coverage of services:
Sewage
Total                Sewerage             Treatment
Year        Population         Population Served    Population Served
(Millions)         Millions    %         Millions      %
1977            10.6               4.06     38        0.53 /1      4.8
1978            11.16              4.30     39        0.65 T1      6.0
1979            11.69              4.69     40        1.14 /1    10.0
1980            12.26              5.25     43        2.00 /1    16.0
1981            12.70              6.02     47        2.16        17.0
1982            13.16              6.79     52        3.68        28.0
1983 /2         13.58              7.52     55        5.43        40.0
1985            14.00              9.40     67        7.50        53.0
1990            16.75             11.80     70       10.60        63.0
1995            18.96             14.40     76       13.80        72.0
2000            21.60             18.95     88       18.95        88.0
/1   Primary treatment only.
/2   End of first stage.



I



j   ~        ~        ~ ,                                             t9N                                        A . <ih., ., 0<
O   0>Z                      -                 , B         ,     e A
"to ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~             =:.- iS        . 
I'~~~C I                                          .;"0:WXL
t   l°                                                                         wi                             f       a N,
l >4                      °t\                                                       ,                                 22
r  rngi,          
i~~~~~~~~~~ ..                               *s¾             a   Z,,....      ,   9
:.'                 X   zO ,(                                                          _, 






- 23 -
5.10      The master plan has been designed to be implemented by stages.
The proposed Bank project includes the first stage up to 1983. Due to the
modular characteristics of the master plan, the following stages may be
implemented when needed. In the future, if tertiary treatment is required
for removal of nutrients, it could be adapted without interfering with the
initial treatment processes (Annex 1).
Project Objectives
5.11      The project will decrease infant mortality, increase life expec-
tancy and improve health and environmental conditions for the population of
Greater Sao Paulo by collecting sewage from 3.5 million inhabitants (40%
of who are among the low-income population); increasing the total population
serviced from 38% in 1978 to 55% by 1983; and by providing sewage treatment
facilities for 5.5 million population plus 2.2 million population equivalent
of industrial wastes in terms of volume, increasing the total population
serviced (without industrial wastes) from 4.8% in 1978 to 40% by 1983. The
project also provides for personnel training for the operation and maintenance
of the sewage collection and treatment as well as monitoring and control of
industrial wastes. Assurances were obtained from SABESP during negotiations
that it will prepare and furnish to the Bank for its comments not later than
July 31, 1979 a program for the provision of technical assistance to and
training of personnel for (i) the design, construction management operation
and maintenance of the sewerage system and sewage treatment plants; (ii) moni-
toring and control of industrial wastes to be discharged into SABESP's sewer-
age system; (iii) control of unaccounted-for water; (iv) determining the most
appropriate structure and level of sewage collection and treatment charges
for the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region; and (v) the multipurpose use of water
resources (Section 4.04, Loan Agreement).
Project Description
5.12      The main project components (see Map 1) are:
(i) Sewage house connections to 550,000 household units;
(ii) Expansion of the Greater Sao Paulo sewage collection system
through the construction of additional 5,500 km of sewage
collectors and trunk sewers with diameters range from
0.15 m to 2.00 m;
(iii) Construction of 60 km of sewage interceptors of concrete
materials built in situ of diameters larger than 1.20 m;
(iv) Construction of 10 sewage pumping stations of various capa-
cities to elevate the sewage along the collection system and
from the interceptors to the treatment plants;
(v) Construction of the following three secondary sewage treatment
plants using the activated sludge process:



- 24 -
(a) Treatment plant of Suzano with initial capacity of
1.5 m /sec;
(b) Treatment plant of Barueri with initial capacity of
7.0 m /sec;
(c) Treatment plant of ABC with initial capacity of
6.0 m /sec.
(vi) Construction of two small sewage treatment plants of the
oxidation pond or oxidation ditch type for isolated I reas
of Greater Sao Paulo, with a total capacity of 0.3 m /sec;
(vii) Technical assistance to and training of SABESP in (a) the
design, construction management, operation and maintenance of
SABESP's sewerage system and sewage treatment plants, (b)
monitoring and control of industrial wastes to be discharged
into SABESP's sewerage system, (c) control of unaccounted
water, determining the most appropriate structure and level
of sewage collection and treatment charges for the Sao Paulo
Metropolitan Region, and (e) the multipurpose use of water
resources; and
(viii) Engineering and administration of the project.
Complementary Works
5.13      Other components not included under the project but which are essen-
tial for the accomplishment of the project's objectives are:
(i) Rectification and canalization of about 176 km of water
courses in Greater Sao Paulo. This program will be executed
by the municipality of Sao Paulo during the same period of
the proposed project (1978-1983). The main objective of
this program is flood control through the improvement of the
hydraulic conditions of the water courses. This program
will mostly benefit the low-income population living along-
side the rivers. The total cost of this program is estimated
at about 5 billion cruzeiros (US$334 million) and includes
land expropriation and complementary services. 50% of the
program will be financed by BNH and 50% by the municipality
of Sao Paulo. The agreement for financing this program was
formally signed by the above entities on August 12, 1977.
Through this agreement the municipality of Sao Paulo should
present a detailed engineering design and implementation
program to be agreed upon and approved by SABESP and CETESB.
A failure by BNH or the municipality to perform their obliga-
tions under this agreement or a modification of the agreement
which would adversely affect the implementation of the pro-
posed project, would be an event of default under the Bank



- 25 -
loan (Section 8.01(d) Loan Agreement). Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that SABESP will coordinate the
execution oL these complementary works with the Municipality
of Sao Paulo and present to the Bank an implementation
schedule for those trunk sewers related to the river
rectification program from the Municipality of Sao Paulo not
later than June 30, 1978 (Section 3.04, Loan Agreement).
(ii) Industries having toxic and harmful liquid wastes should take
corrective action so that their wastes will not affect the
sewerage system and sewage treatment plants. SABESP should
prepare, in coordination with CETESB, a detailed program for the
enforcement of the corrective actions to be taken by the indus-
trialists as well as a monitoring control program of the wastes.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) the Gov-
ernment of the State of Sao Paulo will prepare or cause to be
prepared not later than September 30, 1978 a financial and
technical assistance program satisfactory to the Bank to those
industries suitable to be connected to the sewerage system and
treatment facilities to reduce their industrial wastes toxic
components, to levels acceptable to SABESP and will take all
the measures before December 31, 1978, including the estab-
lishment of an appropriate financial scheme to assist those
industries in the implementation of the program (Section 6.02
(b), Loan Agreement). Industries which prefer not to
connect to the Sewerage system will have to comply with the
State Water Pollution Control Law by building their own full
treatment plants (para 1.21); (b) SABESP will prepare not
later than July 31, 1979 regulations for permissible
levels of industrial wastes toxic components and a monitoring
control program for industrial wastes to be connected to its
collection and treatment facilities, present it to the Bank
for comments, and implement it thereafter (Section 3.05, Loan
Agreement); and (c) SABESP will not later than December 31,
1978 determine in consultation with the Bank criteria to
estimate the amount of the charges to be paid by industries
upon their connection to SABESP's sewerage system and inform
interested industries of the amounts of the charges so esti-
mated (Section 4.11, Loan Agreement).
Project Costs
5.14      The total cost of the project amounts to US$1,239.6 million with
a foreign exchange component of US$356.4. Project costs were prepared using
SABESP's August 1977 bid prices for civil works and materials, and informa-
tion from suppliers and consultants for equipment costs (see Annex I Attach-
ment 5 for project cost summary). Consultant services, including engineering,
accounted for 15% of the estimated cost of the works and included engineering
field work, final designs, and supervision and administration of the project
execution. Because cost estimates were developed from feasibility designs
and because of difficulties in laying collectors and interceptors along roads



- 26 -
with heavy traffic, physical contingencies have been calculated at 20% of the
estimated basic cost. A constant purchasing power monetary unit, the UPC
(see para. 6.05), was used in calculating the project cost. During the
period 1971-1975 its value in current Cr$ increased at approximately the
same rate as the cost of construction in Rio de Janeiro, which is a reliable
indicator. Price escalation in US dollar equivalent is based on projections
on worldwide inflation trends of 7.5% p.a. for the period 1977 to 1979 and 7%
p.a. in 1980 and thereafter for equipment and materials, and 9% p.a. for the
period 1977 to 1979 and 8% p.a. in 1980 and thereafter for civil works.
5.15      The project contains an estimated 8,620 man-months of consulting
services during the whole project implementation period. This considerable
amount of consultant services includes Technical assistance in the preparation
of studies, engineering designs, specifications, bid evaluations, project super-
vision, start up of operations and administration, as well as management
assistance for SABESP's project unit and training of personnel for control and
monitor of industrial effluents. The estimated cost of these services is about
US$50 million or an average cost per man-month of US$5,800.
Financing
5.16      The proposed Bank loan of US$110 million would finance about 30.9% of
the foreign exchange cost of the project or 8.9% of total project cost. The
remainder of this project will be financed by BNH (33.6%), FAE (42.5%) and a
capital contribution from the State of Sao Paulo (15%). 1/ The following
table summarizes the project financing plan:
1/   Per agreement signed August 12, 1977; copies are in division files.



- 27 -
Project Cost
Financed By             Percentage        (In US$ Millions)
Bank (to reimburse BNH)            8.9                   110,0
BNH                               33.6                   416.8
FAE                               42.5                   526.8
State Grants /1                   15.0                   186.0
Total                            100.0                 1,239.6
/1   BNH has agreed to provide financing to the State of Sao Paulo for 50% of
the required grant funds, if needed.
By the same agreement, any cost overruns would be for the account of the State
Govafnment. However, in view of the magnitude of the project, assurances were
obtained from the Federal Government and the Sao Paulo State Government during
±egotlations that they wiil provide funding for any cost overruns incurred
during the execution of the projects (Section 2.02, Guarantee Agreement and
Sec-_- ' 66.01i, Loan Agreement). A failure by BNH, the State or SABESP to carry
ou-  .he agreement or a modification to it that would adversely affect the
i..plementation of the proposed project, would be an event of default under
the Bank Loan (Section 8.01, Loan Agreement).
Imp lementation
i7        The project will be executed during the period 1978-1983, according
to the constructlon schedule shown in Annex 1, Attachment 6 and investment
schedule in Annex 1 Attachment 7.
5.18      SABESP will ctary out the project with the same consultants (para
5.02` who developed the ZMaster Plan.  These consultants, who are accept-
able to the Bank, are already preparing final designs, specifications and
bidding documents. They will also be in charge of supervising construction
of the major components and will assist SABESP in tender analysis.  Assurances-
-ere. obtained during negotiations that SABESP will continue to engage
consultants acceptable to the Bank for these purposes (Section 3.02,
Loan Agreement).
5li9      Due to the complexity of the project and massive construction works
to be executed in almost all areas of Greater Sao Paulo during the next six
years, SABESP has created a separate unit, within its organization, to carry
out project implementation in an orderly manner. This unit reports directly
to the president of SABESP and will serve as the Bank's counterpart for the
supervision of project progress and will have the necessary engineering,
management and service staff, For some specific tasks, representatives from
other state agencies should also be nominated as liaisons to the proposed unit
with enough authority to make decisions, Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that (i) SABESP will operate this unit for coordinating the execu-
tion and supervision of the project (Section 3.03, Loan Agreement), and



- 28 -
(ii) the State Government will nominate, or cause to nominate when required by
SABESP, representatives from other agencies such as electric energy, telephone,
gas, traffic and others to coordinate with the project unit, the execution of
the project (Section 6.02 (a), Loan Agreement).
Procurement
5.20      Equipment, instrumentation and supplies for the sewage treatment
plants and pumping stations to be financed by the Bank will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.
In the evaluation of bids, the local manufacturers will be allowed a margin of
preference of either 15% of the CIF price or the applicable import duty,
whichever is lower. The remainder of the necessary goods for the project, as
well as all civil works contracts financed by Brazilian funds will be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procurement procedures which will ensure adequate competition and
reasonable prices. Submission of bids by international contractors and
suppliers on biddings advertised locally will not be precluded.
5.21      The proposed major packages for civil works contracts and equipment
and purchases of treatment plants and pumping stations in the three regions of
Barueri, ABC and Suzano are shown in Annex 1, Attachment 8. The civil works
contracts and material purchases for house connections, collectors and inter-
ceptors will take place during the total project period (1978-1983). It is
estimated that there will be about 140 major civil works contracts for these
items.
Disbursements
5.22      The Loan would be disbursed over a six-year period.  Disbursement
would be made against 100% of the foreign expenditures for consultants and
the CIF cost (if imported) or ex-factory price (if locally supplied) of that
part of equipment, instrumentation and supplies for the treatment plants and
pumping stations which is procured through international competitive bidding.
5.23      The Bank loan would be disbursed against the following items:
sewage pumps, air compressors, automatic sewage racks and screens, comminution
equipment, sludge scrapers, aeration equipment, air diffusers, scum breaker
devices, sludge thickeners equipment, sludge pumps, sludge dewatering equip-
ment, electrical devices, instrumentation and laboratory equipment.
5.24      The project would be completed by December 31, 1983 and the closing
date for this loan would be September 30, 1984. The estimated quarterly dis-
bursements are shown in Annex 1, Attachment 9.



- 29 -
CHAPTER VI
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
6.01      This chapter analyzes the past, present and future financial position
of the Borrower (BNH) and the Beneficiary (SABESP), and discusses the financing
of the beneficiary's total investment program, including the proposed project.
6.02      BNH is the largest government-owned banking institution in Brazil
dedicated to social development; at the end of 1976 total assets were valued
at more than US$9.0 billion. BNH's main activities, which are nation-wide, are
concerned with the financing of low-cost housing, urban development and the
sanitation sectors.  BNH's primary source of funds is an 8% employer's payroll
contribution (Employee Indemnity Fund-FGTS) for all non-government employees;
other sources include interest and principal repayments from its existing
loans as well as interest and monetary correction on surplus funds invested in
national treasury bonds.
6.03      SABESP is the largest sanitation public utility in Brazil and one
of the largest in the world. Its objectives are to provide: (i) water supply
to 80% of the population in about 460 urban communities in the State of Sao
Paulo by 1980; (ii) water supply to 90% of the population by 1978, and sewage
collection and treatment to 88% of the population of the Metropolitan Sao
Paulo area by the year 2000; and (iii) a moderate sewerage collection program
for the rest of the state. SABESP estimates that to achieve these objectives,
capital investments amounting to about US$11.0 billion at current prices, will
be required through the year 2000. Of that total, US$3.6 billion, or 33%, is
projected to be spent during the period 1977-1983, the construction period of
the proposed project. The project would cost US$1.2 billion of which the Bank
would finance US$110 million.
A.   The Borrower
Fields of Operation
6.04      Over the period 1970-1979, BNH expects to invest 54% of its resources
in low-cost housing programs, including construction costs, materials, land
and the contractors' working capital requirements; 17% in urban development
for infrastructure and mass transportation systems; 17% in sanitation projects;
and the remaining 12% in studies, training, technical assistance, and miscella-
neous activities.



- 30 -
Past and Present Finances
6.05      The following summary financial statements indicate the development
of BNH's financial activities since 1971. Full details are given in Annex 2,
Tables 6.1 and 6.2:
Summary Funds Flow Statement
(Millions of U.S. Dollars)
1971       1973           1975         1976
Operating Income              61.0       144.6          220.6        256.0
Indemnity Deposits          424.4        727.1        1,135.1      1,199.6
All Other Sources            249.0       361.8          904.7      1,132.5
Total Sources            734.4      1,233.5        2,260.4      2,588.1
New Loans Granted            618.4     1,021.9        1,939.4      2,569.7
All Other Applications       116.0       211.6          321.0         18.4
Total Applications       734.4      1,233.5        2,260.4      2,588.1
Summary Balance Sheets
(Millions of U.S. Dollars)
December 31
Loan Receivables          1,545.3      3,131.7        5,461.4      7,246.1
Negotiable Bonds             203.8       761.1        1,120.0      1,048.8
All Other Assets            378.1        345.4          893.2        995.8
Total Assets           2,127.2      4,238.2        7,474.6      9,290.7
Indemnity Fund Deposits  1,741.5       3,373.3        5,337.7      6,400.3
Capital and Reserves         283.8       696.4        1,349.8      1,495.2
Other Liabilities            101.9       168.5          787.1      1,395.2
Total Liabilities      2,127.2      4,238.2        7,474.6      9,290.7
BNH's growth from 1971 through 1976 is evident from the above data. BNH's
loan portfolio has expanded by 370% and its total assets by 340%. To protect
itself and the employee indemnity funds for which it is both custodian and
investor, from inflation, BNH uses a constant monetary equivalent unit called
"Unidade Padrao de Capital" (UPC) for all financial transactions. The
UPC is corrected quarterly, using the same cost of living index as that used
to adjust federal treasury bonds. Additionally, BNH requires that all its
loans be guaranteed by state or municipal governments, financial institutions,



- 31 -
or by mortgages where appropriate. BNH's interest rates for sanitation loans
vary from 2% to 7%; the rate charged being related to a state's tax-generated
revenue. BNH deducts a 1% administrative fee and at least a 1% technical
service fee from each loan disbursement to cover its operating costs.
6.06      Net receipts (deposits less withdrawals) of the Employee Indemnity
Fund (FGTS) have declined, in relative terms, from 58% of BNH's sources of
funds in 1971 to 47% in 1976, while they have increased in absolute terms from
US$424.4 million to US$1,199.6 million equivalent during the same period.
Receipt of interest and principal repayments from the existing loan portfolio,
grew from US$279.3 million in 1971 to US$765.0 million equivalent in 1976.
6.07      During the same period, administrative expenses have remained
static at about 40% of related revenue (service income) and showed no economy
of scale. Financial expenses increased with respect to related revenue (loan
income) from 69% in 1971 to 77% in 1976. BNH attributes increased costs to
the decentralization of headquarters operations to regional offices (para.
2.06).
6.08      In 1974, BNH faced a liquidity crunch that affected many of its
institutional borrowers in the housing construction sector. BNH established a
liquidity fund (Fundo de Assistencia de Liquidez-FAL) to provide short-term
assistance to those financial institutions which were in difficulty; however,
despite such help, BNH had to take judicial action to force the liquidation of
six institutions. Debts of these borrowers amounted to US$547.5 million, or
6% of BNE's total assets as of the end of 1976. BNH has established a reserve
of US$255.0 million to cover any loss from these liquidations.
Future Finances
6.09      Each year BNH is required to prepare a three-year investment program
(expressed in UPC) which has to be approved by the Minister of Interior. For
the period 1977-79, BNH's 1977 investment budget was reduced by 20% in accord-
ance with the Federal Government anti-inflation policies; the funds not
applied to new investments have been temporarily placed in federal securities.
The triennial program, adjusted for the above-mentioned 1977 reduction, is as
follows:



- 32 -
Source and Application of Funds 1977-1979
Amount      %
(In US$ Millions)
Sources
FGTS Net                                          4,623       46
Loan Amortization -            3,043  )
Interest Income -              2,069  )
(Finance Costs)              (1,580) ) ........ 3,532        36
Operating Income                                    235        2
Sale of Bonds                                       860        9
Foreign Loans (including Bank Loan)                 176        2
All Other                                           521        5
Total Sources                                   9,947      100
Applications
Housing                                           5,918       60
Sanitation                                        1,661 /1   17
Urban Development                                 1,124       11
Technical and Other                                 667        7
1977 Investment (in Bonds)                          577        5
Total Applications                              9,947      100
/1   Includes 1977-1979 SABESP.
BNH's growth during 1977-1979 has been projected at 14% per annum.  The
sectoral distribution of investment, in general, follows the same proportions
as in previous periods.
6.10      During the program period, BNH's administrative costs are projected
to rise from their historic 40% of service income level to 67%; this 27%
increase is attributed to the need to establish a new reserve for contingencies,
additional resources required for technical assistance, and to the costs of
additional personnel for the decentralization of BNH's activities. BNH's
management is aware of its soaring administrative costs, and has recently
initiated a job classification program to promote better utilization of its
personnel.
6.11      BNH is a healthy financial organization; its growth, in terms of
current dollars, attests to sound fiscal policies, and its loan and bond
portfolios carry substantial and adequate guarantees (para. 6.05). Because
of the longer maturity of BNH's loan, amortization payments on the Bank loan
would exceed repayments to BNH by SABESP.  However, BNH's financial position
is expected to be strong enough to absorb this shortfall without difficulty.
Although BNH would charge a slightly lower interest rate to BANESPA than it
would be paying to the Bank, BNH interest receipts would exceed its payments
because of the larger amortization period of its loan to BANESPA and because



- 33 -
of the different amortization systems to be used. 1/ In the unlikely event
that there were a shortfall, the Federal Government would make up the
difference.
B.   The Beneficiary
Introduction
6.12      The Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo (SABESP)
was formed in December 1973 by the merger of several separate entities (para.
3.01). All of the entities merged were in a relatively poor financial condi-
tion, and were overstaffed by an estimated two thousand employees who benefit-
ted from advantageous fringe benefits and pension programs. SABESP was also
hampered by poor management until March 1975 (para. 3.02), and by a lack of
coordination between planning and operations; in this respect, the organiza-
tional and administrative control of the entity serving Santos and adjacent
tourist-oriented municipalities, which represented 14% of 1976 sales, was only
achieved in mid-1975.
Past and Present Finances
6.13      SABESP's early years were characterized by an inadequate tariff
structure, low tariff levels, no cost control system, poor planning, a high
level of unaccounted-for water, and excessive payroll costs. The following
summary financial statements provide an overview of SABESP's financial per-
formance through 1976. Full details are presented in Annex 2, Tables 6.3
through 6.5.
1/   BNH uses the annuity system for amortization (equal monthly install-
ments) while the Bank uses the equal principal installment system for
amortization.



- 34 -
Summary of Income and Cash Flow Statements
1974         1975          1976
(In Millions of U.S. Dollars)
Revenue                           77.7          89.2          93.0
Operating Costs                  (62.4)        (68.8)        (73.4)
Depreciation                     (11.8)        (14.4)        (14.2)
Other                             (0.1)         (4.8)         (5.2)
Net Profit                         3.4           1.2           0.2
Internal Cash Generation          15.2          15.6          14.4
Capital Contributions             70.2          95.7          68.1
New Long-term Debt                30.1         184.0         227.9
Other Sources                     78.5          14.1          47.2
194.0        309.4         357.6
New Investments                  177.5         222.3         308.9
Debt Service                      14.6          51.7          46.5
Other Applications                 1.9          35.4           2.2
194.0        309.4         357.6
Summary Balance Sheets
(In Millions of U.S. Dollars)
Net Operating Fixed Assets       433.1         567.8         556.1
Construction in Progress         370.3         448.1         685.9
Current Assets                    39.7          50.1          52.9
All Other Assets                   7.6           8.7          18.8
Total Assets                  850.7      1,074.7       1,313.7
Long-Term Debt                   212.2         346.8         554.8
Capital and Reserves             548.3         650.1         635.4
Current Liabilities               90.2          77.8         123.5
Total Liabilities
and Equity                 850.7       1,074.7       1,313.7
During the period of 1974-1976, SABESP undertook a large investment program
(US$708 million) without having full BNH/FAE financial coverage. SABESP's
internal cash generation was insufficient to cover debt service payments. As
a result, its accounts payable increased significantly, and state equity con-
tributions amounting to US$234.0 million (32% of capital expenditures) were
necessary. Despite these state contributions, the debt/equity ratio deter-
iorated from 24/76 in 1974 to 47/53 in 1976. A demonstration of SABESP's poor



- 35 -
operating performance is given in the data below which compares actual rates
of return on net operating fixed assets achieved with the rates of return in
the Loan Assumption Agreement for Loans 757 and 758-BR:
Loan
Year             Actual            Covenant
1974              1.2%               1.0%
1975              1.8%               4.0%
1976              1.6%               6.0%
6.14       SABESP°s present management has taken measures to improve adminis-
tratiLve and operating efficiencies; tariffs have been increased substantially
(para. 6.17); cost and budgetary controls were int5oduced in late 1975, which
brought about a reduction of 7% in the 1976 cost/m sold; planning functions
and personnel have been strengthened as evidenced by the investment plan being
carried out; and the massive house connection program in the city of Sao Paulo
which will result in increased revenues (para. 3.08). With these arrangements,
and considering only the assets in operation, which exclude parts of Cantareira
production and transmission facilities (para. 6.26), SABESP achieved the 1977
targeted rate of return of 6% on Loans 757/758-BR. SABESP's only major
remaining problem is the percentage of unaccounted-for water which rose from
28% in 1974 to approximately 35% in late 1977. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that SABESP shall, no later than October 31, 1978, prepare
and implement thfereafter a program, for the progressive reduction of this
percentage to 20% by December 31, 1983 and thereafter. The Bank would be
giver, an opportunity to comment on the program and its implementation
(Section 40149 Loan Agreement).
Tariffs
60 5       Three problems have affected SABESP's ability to raise adequate
reven-ues. Tihe first and greatest problem has been SABESP's low initial tariff
reveL and government's reluctance to permit real term public sector tariff
increases in the midst of a pronounced inflationary period.  Tariff increases
must b'2 approved by the National Interministerial Price Committee (CIP).
Between 1974 and 1977 SABESP's tariffs were increased by 190%, which was in
line wi   the UPC increase in the same period and the cost-of-living increase
in the Sao Paulo area. However in most cases, CIP delayed its final approval
and rezuced SA BESP's requests (total increases requested were 312%) which were
intended not only to protect the company against inflation constraints but
also to ?r.mvide it with the additional revenues necessary to attain financial
viability
6.16      TAhe second problem has been the delay in establishing a satisfactory
tarirf struicture,  Initially, most of SABESP's3customers were billed at a
minimum tariff for a consumption 2f up to 15 m /month with a surcharge for
voluae consiaed in excess of 15 m /month. In addition, they paid a fixed
charne based on the hourly volumetric capacity of the meter.  Subsequently,
howe-er, STkESP was able to gradually increase the surcharge to 70% over the
minizun tari-Ff and has imlemented a new surcharge for consumption over   3
50 m'hncnth/ccnneotion; the latter represents 182% of the minimum tariff/mi



- 36 -
Finally, in September 1977, the fixed charge was eliminated in order to achieve
a better cross-subsidization among consumers. The present tariff structure is
:     ry in relation to the social parameter mentioned above, and is
adequate to recover present costs.
6.17      SABESP's third problem was the tariff charged for bulk water supplied
to adjaceit industrial cities. This tariff, which was below cost, averiged
Cr$0.37/m in 1975 compared to the average domestic tariff of Cr$1.10/m . The
problem was partially corrected in the December 1976 tariff revision ind in
January 1977 the averags bulk water tariff was increased to Cr$0.83/m which
compared with Cr$2.20/m for domestic consumption in the Greater Sao Paulo
region. SABESP's bulk water tariffs however are still less than bulk water
costs, and therefore during negotiations assurances were obtained that SABESP
will prepare and implement corrective tariff proposals for bulk water sales
by June 30, 1978 to insure that such tariffs cover full costs including a
return on the related assets of bulk supply of 6% in 1978, 8% in 1979, and
10X thereafter (Section 4.12 Loan Agreement).
6.18      Notwithstanding these problems, 1977 has been a good year for SABESP
in terms of volumes, tariffs, and revenues. Volume sold in the metropolitan
area 1/ in the first six months of 1977 increased 16% over the same period in
1976. Tariffs through September were already 68% above those of November
1976, and the December 1977 approval will raise tariffs by 110% in twelve
months. Estimated revenues show an increase of 84% over those of 1976.
6.19      Since SABESP's incorporation, sewage collection tariffs have averaged
67% of the water bill per connection in metropolitan Sao Paulo and 50% in the
interior. While SABESP's revenues will increase with the new house connection
program under the proposed project, SABESP plans to propose two new tariff
categories to recover project costs for the collectors, interceptors and
treatment plants. These are:
(a) for all risidential and commercial consumers using3more
than 15 m  month of water, an additional Cr$2.00/m  for
treatment would be added to the 3existing sewage collection
tariff (approximately Cr$2.00/m ); and
(b)  an industrial treatment tariff of Cr$6.00/m  would be added
to the existing sewage tariff.
Applying such tariffs to the 1984 service levels (the first year after project
completion) sewerage revenues would increase by an estimated UPC 10.0 million,
or 64% over 1983's projected base sewage revenues of UPC 15.1 million. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that SABESP shall: (a) prepare and
furnish to the Bank terms of reference for a study to identify the most appro-
priate structure and level of sewage collection and treatment charges in the
1/   This area accounted for 81% of the water sold in 1976.



- 37 -
Sao Paulo Metropolitan area not later than September 30, 1978; (b) afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment; and (c) not later than December 31,
1979, furnish to and review with the Bank the recommendations made in that
study and modify the structure and level of SABESP's charges as shall be
appropriate in the light of such recommendations and review (Section 4.16
Loan Agreement).
6.20      Most major industries currently extract and treat, at a substantial
cost, the highly polluted river water for industrial use, free of any charge.
When the full Cantareira system comes into service in 1981, SABESP will have
additional water supplies available that could be sold to those industries.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a study of the possibility
of connecting industries to SABESP's water distribution system would be pre-
sented to the Bank for its review and comments not later than December 31,
1978 (Section 4.13 Loan Agreement).
6.21      It is the Government's stated policy that financial norms and tariffs
will be established which would neither decapitalize the state sanitation
entities nor be onerous to the user, and an appropriate law would be presented
to the President and the Congress very soon.
Future Finances
6.22      In order to simplify the presentation of future finances, and to
provide a constant price reference base, all projections have been made in
UPC.  All revenues, costs, and investment programs were converted from the
cruzeiro values adjusted to or in effect on July 1, 1977. A summary of
SABESP's total requirements and its sources of financing for the period
1977 through 1983 is given below:
Capital Investment                UPC Millions        US$ Millions          _
Project Works                        66.2                  960               26
Other Sewerage Works                 38.6                  560               16
Water Supply Works                   84.3                 1222               34
Miscellaneous Investments            25.4                   366              10
Interest During Construction         28.0                  406               11
Total Investment                 242.5                 3516              97
Working Capital                       5.7                    83               3
248.2                 3599             100
Financed by
BNH                                 103.8                 1505               42
FAE                                 100.4                 1456               40
State Capital Contributions          11.9                  173                5
SABESP                               32.1                  465               13
248.2                 3599             100
Details of the above by year are given in Annex 2, Tables 6.6 and 6.7.



- 38 -
6.23      SABESP's requirements for the period 1977-1983 are estimated at
US$3.6 billion; 34% of this sum will be invested in water supply, 42% in
sewerage works, and the balance in interest during construction, miscell-q-r-us
investments, and working capital. Geographically, 68% of the total funds are
projected for the metropolitan area of Sao Paulo. The proposed project is the
most important single project in SABESP's overall program representing about
26% of the total program cost.
6.24      The financing of the project (including interest during construction),
and the city of Sao Paulo's complementary program for the rectification of
water courses, were agreed in principle on August 12, 1977 between SABESP,
BNH, the Municipality and the State Government (para. 5.16). These agreements
provided financial terms which are different from both normal PLANASA terms
and those of the Bank as shown below:
Project         Comparative
Normal PLANASA           Financing Only           Bank
Financing Terms                Terms              Terms
BNH        FAE            BNH          FAE
1.   Annual Interest /1    8%          5.5%           8%          5.5%     Approx. 8%
2.   Grace Period           3 Yrs.    3 Yrs.      4 1/2 Yrs.  4 1/2 Yrs.       3 Yrs.
3.   Final Maturity        21 Yrs.   21 Yrs.    34 1/2 Yrs. 34 1/2 Yrs.    15 Yrs.
/1   Includes 1% financial agent's fee.
The extended grace and maturity periods for the project are justified for the
following reasons:
(a)  The size of the proposed investment:  this is equivalent to the
value of SABESP's operating fixed assets plus works in progress
(US$1.2 billion) at the end of 1976;
(b)  The length of the construction period:  60% of the
project has construction periods of four to six years;
(c)  The maturity period would be more in line with the economic
life of the project; and
(d)  Forty percent of the 3.5 million inhabitants that will
receive sewage collection services from the project, are
in the low income group.
6.25      With the exception of miscellaneous investments, the remainder of
SABESP's investment program would be financed by BNH and FAE under PLANASA's
normal financing terms or through the special financing program for commu-
nities under 5,000 inhabitants, under which SABESP would receive up to 68% of
project costs as capital contributions, and the rest on normal loan terms.



- 39 -
Miscellaneous investments, 1/ a small amount of interest during construction,
and working capital would be met from SABESP's internal sources since PLANASA
does not normally fund this type of investment. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that SABESP will provide the Bank for its comments the details
and financing plans for any proposed capital investments which are not covered
by PLANASA financing schemes and which exceed 1/2% of SABESP's average revalued
net fixed assets (Section 4.09, Loan Agreement).
6.26      In order to achieve a level of financial equilibrium, and to provide
funds for miscellaneous investments and internal expansion needs, SABESP's
revenues will need to be at least equal to its operating, maintenance and
administrative costs, full debt service, and a gradually increasing amount,
represented by a percentage of the value of its net revalued fixed assets.
With the additional revenues expected from new customers in the existing
systems, from the incorporation of additional city systems, from increased
bulk water tariffs and the reduction in water loss, SABESP should be able
to achieve the necessary level of revenues in 1978 and 1979. Some increase
in revenues beyond those required to cover inflation will be needed after
1979; it is expected that SABESP would be able to obtain these funds from
additional industrial water users and from moderate increases in sewerage
tariffs. There does not appear to be any major constraints to SABESP's
achievement of the proposed targets. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that SABESP's revenues in each calendar year would be at least
equal to all operating, maintenance, administrative and commercial costs,
interest and other charges on debt, repayment of loans, and to the following
percentages of average net revalued fixed assets: 0.5% in 1978-1979; 1.5%
in 1980-81; 2.5% in 1982; and 3.5% in 1983 and thereafter.  The revenues thus
generated would represent rates of return on net revalued fixed assets in
operation (excluding the value of the Cantereira/SAM water production and
transmission facilities not in use) of: 6% in 1978; 7% in 1979; 8% in 1980;
and 9% thereafter (Section 4.08, Loan Agreement).
6.27      The salient features of SABESP's future financial forecasts for the
period 1978-1983 are set out below:
1/   Expansion of headquarter's building, replacement and expansion of the
transportation fleet, additional tools, equipment, laboratory and mainte-
nance facilities, etc.



- 40 -
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
--------- (In Millions of UPC)  ------------
36
Volume Water Sold M            893   1,080   1,268   1,392   1,494   1,575
Revenues                      13.8    18.1    23.1    28.0    33.0    41.0
Operating Costs                8.7    10.3    12.1    13.2    14.1    15.7
Depreciation                   1.9      2.4     3.5      4.2      5.2     6.4
Income before Interest         3.2      5.4     7.5    10.6    13.7    18.9
Interest                       2.8      4.1     5.4      6.7      7.8     9.5
Net Income                     0.4      1.3     2.1      3.9      5.9     9.4
Asset Rate Base               47.4    68.9    93.4   117.6   152.2   210.0
Rate of Return                 6.7      7,8     8.0      9.0      9.0     9.0
Debt/Equity Ratio            62/38   67/33   71/29   73/27   75/25   76/24
Debt Service Coverage          0.8      0.9      1.0     1.1      1.2      1.3
6.28      Net income is expected to progress satisfactorily and SABESP's
financial base for future operations should become stronger over the next six
years. The present weakness in debt service coverage is expected to continue
until 1979, after which, it should improve to more acceptable levels. The
debt/equity ratio will increase from the present 56/44 to 76/24; however, this
feature of SABESP's financial structure results from the national financing
policy for the sanitation sector under which new investment is mainly 100%
debt-financed. These arrangements are acceptable and are not uncommon for
large infrastructure entities in their early stages of development.
Monitoring Indicators/Reporting Requirements
6.29      In order to permit the satisfactory monitoring of its investment
program and financing plans, SABESP agreed at negotiations too
(a)  Prepare and furnish to the Bank a one year budget before
December 1st of each fiscal year expressed in local cur-
rency, which would provide at least an income statement,
cash flow, and fixed assets base (Section 4.10, Loan
Agreement); and
(b) Establish and maintain, not later than December 319 1978,
a system of monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 4.15, Loan Agreement). Under this system, SABESP
would provide a quarterly progress report which would
demonstrate:
(i)  Progress on the project implementation, giving
details about design completion, physical
execution of the works and disbursements;
(ii) Progress in reducing the unaccounted-for water,
particularly in the Metropolitan Sao Paulo region;



- 41 -
(iii) Statistical data for volume of water produced, vol-
umes of water and sewage billed, average tariffs,
number of water and sewer connections for the city
of Sao Paulo, bulk water sales, industrial sales and
all other metropolitan region sales, Santos region
and total company sales;
(iv)  Operating ratios for water supply and sewage; and
(v)  Number of employees working in Metropolitan Sao
Paulo water supply and sewerage activities, cur-
rently targeted for water supply at 5 per 1,000
connections.



- 42 -
CHAPTER VII
Economic Analysis
Introduction
7.01      The proposed project will fulfill two major objectives.  First, it
will increase the sanitary sewerage coverage in the Greater Sao Paulo area, thus
improving the health and living conditions of the population. Second, it will
reduce the heavy pollution of the existing water courses that has resulted
from the discharge of raw sewage, thus supporting the government's plan to
improve the overall environmental conditions.
7.02      The internal financial rate of return (IFRR) of the proposed project
is estimated to be 11% (para. 7.08). Since the IFRR is higher than the average
cost of capital to SABESP, the project would obtain full financial cost recovery.
Because of the predominance of non-quantifiable factors, no meaningful economic
rate of return could be estimated. The project is the least cost solution to
achieve the stated objectives and is considered justified since adequate
sewerage coverage and water pollution control is indispensable to eliminating
health hazards caused by the high incidence of waterborne diseases.
Population Benefited
7.03     The project will increase the sewerage coverage in Greater Sao Paulo
from a present 38% of the population to 55% by the end of 1983. 40% of the
3.5 million people to be served by sanitary sewerage are among those earning
less than one-third of Sao Paulo's per capita income.
TABLE 7. 1
INCREASE DUE
INCOME          1 9 7 7                 1 9 8 3             TO PROJECT
- Annual                                       .
Per   Total    Population  %  Total    Population  %  Population  Relative
Capita    Population  Served  Popula-  Population    Served  Popula-  Served  Participation
(US$ of   (thousand  (thousand  tion  (thousand  (thousand  tion  (thousand  in Increase
1975)  ir.habitants)   inhabitants)   Served   inhabitants)  inhabitants)  Served   inhabitants)  (I)
A   7,372   1,378      747    54    1,765   1,059    60     312       9
g   2,631   4,028    1,689    42    5,160   3,457    67     1,768    51
C    544    5,194    1,624    31    6,655   3,004    45     1,380    40
TOTAL     10,600   4,060    38   13,580   7,520    55     3,460    100
.                  .       _. ._ . .~~~~~~~~~~~'



-43 -
Proiect Benefits
7-04      The most iportant be-nefits of the project are not quantifiable.
Health improvement, decrease in infant mortality and environmental improve-
ment cannot be meaningfully estimated through the willingness to pay for
saviage collection and treatment for the following reasons:
1'a) The sewerage bill is charged as a percentage of the water bill.
What people actually pay for sewerage may reflect a water
consumer surplus and not necessarily the willingness to pay
for sewerage;
(b)  Be-nefits of sewage treatment accrue to a large proportion of the
population and not necessarily to the waste discharger.  Thus,
the latter is aot likely to be willing to pay for benefits not
directly concerning himiself; and
~c) Existing laws compel consumers to connect to a sewerage system
when it is available and to treat sewage before discharging it in
any water  ;_urse.
70&c      The sewerage component of the proposed project will result in a
decrease of the incidence of waterborne and water-related diseases, which
is estimated to be high (paras. 4.12 and 4.13). This could be expected to
have a further impact on the community as a whole, reducing infant mortality
and increasing life expectancy and labor productivity.  In addition, given
that the existing tariff structure for water and sewerage subsidizes minimum
consumption -users (para, 60.16), the beneficiaries of the project, of which
albout 40%, or  i  million inhabitants are in the lowest income group, will
7_anefit through zross--subsidization.
7.06      important benefits of the sewage treatment component would accrue
to owners and occUpiers of riparian properties through the removal of noxious
odors and unpleasant visual effects.  These benefits are likely to be reflected
in an increase in the land values adjacent to the rivers.  These benefits cannot
be meaningfully quantified since most of this land is already in use and no
basis For comparison exists,  In addition, other factors outside the scope of
the project, such as the development of other community services in parallel,
crea-e upward pressure on land values, making it difficult to isolate the
increase in land values that would have resulted from the project.
7.07      Other benefits, most of them accruing to SABESP, would result from
the sewage treatment component of the project. Their net present value is
esrimated to be UPC 3,354 thousand, or 5% of the total project costs.  They3
incilude. Plroduction of methane gas with a calorific power of 5,400 k cal/mr
savings of chlorine in the treatment of water that is used for industrial
and domestic consumption; reduction by about 180,000 m  annually of solids
dredged from the Pinheiros, Tiete and Tamanduatei rivers, which is necessary
to prevent flooding; and reclamation of low-lying lands by filling them with



- 44 -
dried digested sludge.  An alternative utilization of the sludge would be
in the fabrication of aggregates to be used in the construction industry.
Internal Financial Rate of Return
7.08              The internal financial rate of return (IFRR) of the project was
calculated in order to show what financial consequences the project would have
on the executing agency, SABESP. The IFRR is estimated to be 11%, which is
higher than the average cost of capital to SABESP, securing full financial cost
recovery and putting the implementation of successive stages of the Master
Plan on sound a financial basis. Costs and revenues are shown in the following
table:
TABLE 7.2
INTERNAL FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
(thousand UPC) 1/
COSTS 2/                              REVENUES  3/                          NET REVENUES
FROM            FROM
OPERATION AN17         TOTAL        SEWAGE           SEWAGE         TOTAL
YEAR        INVESTMENT         MAINTENANCE           COSTS  COLLECTION          TREATMENT    REVENUES
1978           4,652               -_                4,652         --                                --         4,65Z
1979           7,050               283              7,333           517              --             517        -6,816
1Q80          10,945               656             11,601        1,172            1,511          2,683        -8,918
1981          12,191             1,098             13,289        1,900            2,451          4,351        -8,938
1982          14,450             1,478             15,928        2,516            3,245          5,761       -10,167
1983          16,920             2,495             19,415        4,020            5,184          9,204       -10,211
1984-2007                              3,103              3,103        4,770            6,151         10,921       + 7,818
IFRR: 11%
l/  As of August 1977, 1 UPC - US$14.50 - CR$213.80
2/  All costs include engineering and physical contingencies, but exclude price escalation and interest during
construction.
3/ Revenues are based on estimates of:
(i)         Volumes of sewage to be collected as a result of the project;
(ii)        Average tariff for sewage collection in real terms:   CR$2.18/m ;                          3                                     3
(iii)       Average tariff for sewage treatment in real terms:   72% domestic at CR$2/m  and 28% indtistrial at CR$6/n
(iv)       10  of sewage collection would be free of charges for treatment corresponding to people consuming
15m3 or less water per month/connection.



- 45 -
7.09      Although revenues collected from sewage collection and treatment do
not necessarily reflect willinguess to pay for these services (para. 7.04),
these charges represent a minimal percentage of the familiar income.  Charges
for treatment would be lower than the costs of alternative means of achieving
the project objectives.
7.iO      People consumirtg 15 m  or less water per month would pay an average
of Cr$12 per connection/month for sewage collection and nothing for treatment.
This charge is equal to about 1% of the minimum wage (Cr$1,106/month). The
average charge for domestic sewage collection plus treatment would be Cr$174
per connection/month, which represents about 1.3% of the estimated average
income per family 1/ (Cr$13,350/month).
7.11      The average tariff for industrial sewage treatment (Cr$6.0/m )3
although higher than the domestic tariff, is estimated to be much lower than
the cost that industries would incur if they treated their sewage individually
(Annex 2, para. 8).
7.12      Charges for treatment discharged by industries would be higher than
costs (to permit lower charges for domestic sewage treatment). At the same
time, incentives are being considered in order to stimulate industries to
promptly carry out the pretreatment process which is necessary to connect to
the collection and treatment facilities (para. 5.13 (ii)).
Average Incremental Cost
7.13      The costs to the economy of water supply, collection of sewage,
and its subsequent treatment are all interrelated. Consequently, the combined
long-run incremental cost is relevant in determining resource allocation. In
order to optimize the use of the facilities, it is desirable, where practicable,
to establish a combined water and sewerage tariff that reflects the incremental
cost of all three services. In this connection, SABESP will prepare and imple-
ment a tariff proposal for sewage treatment (para. 6.19) which would take into
account its relationship to the other services.
7.14      Although the data available was insufficient to compute the incre-
mental cost of water s-upply, there is strong evidence to suggest that the
present water tariff would at least cover its incremental cost. The combined
incremental cost of collection and treatment for the project is estimated
to be Cr§5.7/m , which is close to the expected combined sewerage tariff of
Cr$5.1/m and indicates that prices, on average, are expected to reflect the
marginal cost of the project.  Details are given in the following tables:
1/   Six persons per family.



- 46 -
TABLE 7.3A
AVERAGE INCREMENTAL COST SEWAGE COLLECTION
C O S T S
(thousand LUPC)
Operation and      Total    Volume
Year      Investment      Maintenance      Costs  (million m3)
1978       3,252              -            3,252       --
1979       3,252             297           3,549      50.7
1980       4,540              674          5,214     115.0
1931       5,473           1,093           6,566    186.5
1982       6,477           1,447           7,924    246.9
1983       6,463           2,311           8,774     394.5
1984-2002                     2,743           2,743    468.1
TABLE 7.3B
AVE1RAGE INCRIE41:NTAL COST SlYArr INTLRCEPTION AND TREATME.NT
C O S T S
(thousand UPC)
Operation and      Total      Volume
Year       Investment    Maintenance        Costs  (million m 3
1978        1,963            --          1,963         --
1979        5,128            --          5,128         --
1980        6,143            15          6,158        11.8
1981        7,272            60          7,332        47.3
1982        8,908           105          9,013        94.8
1983       11,512           309         11,821       297.3
1984-2002       --              516           516        476.3
Combined Sewage Collection and Treatment AIC: 0.0265UPC/m - 5.7Cr$/m
Shadow Exchange Rate Factor: 1.25
Risk Analysis
7.15          Sewage can only be biologically treated when it does not contain toxic
or harmful wastes that affect the treatment plants. Failure or delay of indus-
tries in taking corrective measures to prevent the discharge of harmful wastes
into the system would jeopardize the full utilization of the treatment plants.
The risk involved is considered higher than average.  To minimize this risk
the Government would be requested to prepare and implement a program to help
the enterprises to take the necessary corrective measures (para. 5.13 (ii)).
7.16          Implementation of the sewerage subproject could be delayed in those
areas where the installation of sewerage pipes might interfere with heavy
motorized traffic. This risk is considered moderate and would affect only a
minor part of the subproject. To minimize this risk, the Government would be
requested to set up a coordinating mechanism (para. 5.19).



- 47 -
7c17      Implementation of trunk sewers along the river could be delayed
iia tl ose sections where river rectification and canalization is needed.  BNH
has allocated financial resources to the Municipality of Sao Paulo to carry
out a river rectification program through an agreement by which the studies and
irpl_mrentation should be coordinated with SAiBESP. However, technical diffi-
CoulLies invclved may delay the municipal program, delaying in turn SABESP's
-rcgram in the execution of the sewage interceptor component. This risk is
ciosic7eed average but could result in a delay and higher costs for this
:oe,_ coamponent.  A failure in carrying out these complementary works would
e>,-at of default (para. 5.13 (i)).
?O-8      The complex technical nature of the proposed project.and its
magnitude pose a threat to its timely implementation.  To further secure the
£utal implementation of the project, the Federal Government and State of Sao
Paulo have agreed to provide additional funds to cover cost overruns if
-clquired (para 5.16).



- 48 -
CHAPTER VIII
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During loan negotiations, agreements were obtained:
(a)  From the Banco National da Habitacao (BNH):
(i)  To prepare and furnish to the Bank for its comments
a proposal for a national rate system for sewage
collection and treatment. This proposal should be
based on the results of the studies referred to in
para 6.19 and Section 4.07 of the Loan Agreement
for Loan 1309-BR (para 1.14).
(ii) that the Bank will be given a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views on future modifications to BNH/SFS
organization and guidelines and rules to be used for
PLANASA (para. 2.06).
(b)  From the Sao Paulo State Government, that it will:
(i) Prepare not later than September 30, 1978, an
assistance program for the reduction of toxic
components to levels acceptable to SABESP from
the industrial wastes of those industries
connecting to the sewerage system. This program
should start to be implemented not later than
December 31, 1978 (para. 5.13(ii)(a)).
(ii) Nominate or cause to nominate, representatives
from state agencies involved indirectly in the
execution of the project to coordinate with SABESP's
project unit the execution of the project
(para. 5.19(ii)).
(c) From the Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
(SABESP) that:
(i) It will have its official books reviewed annually by
external auditors, acceptable to the Bank, and that
copies of the external auditors' report and the
company's official annual financial statements will
be submitted to the Bank within four months of the
close of each fiscal year (para. 3.11).
(ii) It will continue to maintain an adequate insurance
program (para. 3.12).



- 49 -
(iii) It should present to the Bank not later than July 31,
1979 and carry out promptly thereafter a program
for the provision of technical assistance to and
training of personnel for (a) design, construction
management, operation and maintenance of the sewer-
age system and treatment plants, (b) monitoring
and control of industrial wastes to be discharged in
to the sewerage system, (c) control of unaccounted
water, (d) determining appropriate structure and
level of sewage collection and treatment charges,
and (e) the multipurpose use of water resources
(para 5.11).
(iv)  It will present to the Bank an implementation sched-
ule for those trunk sewers related to the river
rectification program from the Muncipality of Sao
Paulo not later than June 30, 1978 (para. 5.13(i)).
(v) It will present to the Bank for comments regulations
for permissible levels of industrial wastes toxic
components and a monitoring control program for in-
dustrial wastes from those industries to be connected
to the sewerage system not later than July 31, 1979
(para. 5.13(ii)(b)).
(vi) It will determine not later than December 1978 in
consultation with the Bank, criteria to estimate the
amount of the charges to be paid by industries upon
their connection to SABESP's sewerage system and
inform interested industries of the charges so
estimated (para. 5.13(ii)(c)).
(vii) It will continue engaging consultants acceptable to
the Bank to carry out the final designs and supervi-
sion of the main works (para. 5.18).
(viii) The project unit will operate for the implementation
of the project (para. 5.19).
(ix)   It will provide a program acceptable to the Bank,
not later than October 31, 1978 and carry out such
program promptly thereafter to gradually reduce the
percentage of unaccounted-for water to not more than
20% by December 31, 1983 and thereafter (para. 6.14).
(x) SABESP will prepare corrective tariff proposals to
recover the full cost including a return of 6% in
1978, 8% in 1979 and 10% in 1980 and thereafter on
the related assets of bulk water supplies from bulk
water sales by June 30, 1978 (para. 6.17).



- 50 -
(xi) SABESP shall: (a) not later than September 30, 1978,
prepare and furnish to the Bank terms of reference for
a study to identify the most appropriate structure and
level of sewage collection and treatment charges in
the Sao Paulo Metropolitan Region; (b) afford the
Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon;
(c) not later than December 31, 1979, furnish to
and review with the Bank the recommendations made in
such study; and (d) modify the structure and level of
SABESP's charges as shall be appropriate in the light
of such recommendations and review (para 6.19).
(xii) It will study the possibility of connecting indus-
tries to its water distribution system when additional
water is available from the Cantareira system and
present this study to the Bank for comments not
later than December 31, 1978 (para. 6.20).
(xiii) It will provide the Bank for its comments the
details of, and financing plans for, any proposed
single investments which are not covered by a
PLANASA financing scheme exceeding half of 1% of the
average value of SABESP's net fixed assets (para
6.25).
(xiv) SABESP shall achieve in each fiscal year revenues at
least equal to all its operating expenses, interest
and other charges on debt, repayment of loans, and to
a percentage of the average value of net fixed assets
owned or operated by SABESP, of not less than 0.5% in
fiscal years 1978 and 1979, 1.5% in fiscal years 1980
and 1981, 2.5% in fiscal year 1982, and 3.5% in fiscal
year 1983 and thereafter (para 6.26).
(xv) It will establish not later than December 31, 1978 a
system of monitoring indicators acceptable to the
Bank (para. 6.29(b)).
(xvi) It will prepare and furnish to the Bank a one year
budget by December 1st of each fiscal year
(para. 6.29(a)).
8. 02           Provided the foregoing conditions are met, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$110 million. The loan would be for 15
years, including a grace period of three years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BRAZIL
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
Project Development
1.   Historical Developments of Sao Paulo Water Pollution Control Projects
During the last 25 years, four different master plans for the pre-
vention of water pollution in Greater Sao Paulo were developed but only one of
them was partially implemented. For various reasons, such as the lack of
funds and serious interest, none of the plans was fully implemented. The
different plans were as follows:
1.01      In 1952, the US firm of consulting engineers, Greely & Hansen, was
hired to develop the first sewerage and sewage disposal master plan for
Greater Sao Paulo. The city had at that time a population of 2.5 million
inhabitants. The proposal of Greely & Hansen was to build six secondary treat-
ment plants, the effluents from which would be disposed of in the nearby
rivers.
1.02      In 1964 another US consulting firm, Hazen & Sawyer, was hired and
proposed a new master plan. The main feature of their plan was the construc-
tion of four treatment plants. One of the plants would collect a large part
of the sewage and transport it to the Billings Reservoir where a primary treat-
ment plant would be located.
1.03      In 1968 a group of Brazilian firms called Hibraze proposed a similar
solution to the Hazen & Sawyer plan. The only difference was the use of one
of the arms of Billings Reservoir as an oxidation lagoon. The idea was to
isolate that arm through a dam, thus preserving the main body of the Reservoir.
Both the Hazen & Sawyer and Hibraze plans were influenced by the lack of avail-
able power at that time, as it was necessary to maintain a high volume of water
in the Billings Reservoir so that the existing hydroelectric plant would not
be endangered.
1.04      Based on the proposals of the last two studies, the State Government
decided to transport the sewage to the Billings Reservoir, leaving the decision
about the final treatment solution to a later date. The Metropolitan Sao Paulo
Sanitation Co. (SANESP) was created in 1970 to implement the works described
above. In 1974, SABESP, the successor of SANESP, presented a new plan named
the "Integrated Solution." Under this plan, a large portion of the total sewage
would be collected and transported through a tunnel about 22 km in length to
the Juqueri River (a different waterbasin) where, in a first stage, the sewage
would be treated at the Pirapora Reservoir using the Reservoir as an oxidation
lagoon. Later a secondary treatment process would be added. This alternative
seemed more flexible than the other proposals, as it would permit the return
of the sewage to the Billings Reservoir by pumping it up to the Tiete River.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
2.   The Proposed Solution
2.01      In 1975 SABESP selected Hidroservice, the Brazilian firm of consult-
ing engineers, in association with the US firm Metcalf & Eddy and three other
international experts, to develop a final master plan with the basic conditions
that: (i) the existing facilities be put to maximum use; (ii) the plan comply
with the water pollution state law; and (iii) the plan maintain the multipur-
pose uses of Greater Sao Paulo's water resources, mainly for generating hydro-
electric power. The master plan, covering Sao Paulo's water pollution problems
through the year 2000, reviewed all the past studies and presented the follow-
ing three alternatives:
(i)  Alternative I - "Juqueri" - divides the city into three regions,
each with a biological treatment plant located at: Suzano (16.9
m3/sec); ABC (15.1 m3/sec); and Juqueri (61.6 m3/sec). The main
feature of this alternative is that the Juqueri treatment plant is
located in another waterbasin north of Sao Paulo and the sewage has
to be transported through a tunnel about 22 km in length. The
effluent would be discharged into a lake (Pirapora) which is a
tributary of the Parana River, and later pumped back to Greater Sao
Paulo basin for future electric generation. The effluents of the
Suzano and ABC plants would be discharged into the rivers which
cross Sao Paulo and finally discharged into the Billings Reservoir.
(ii)  Alternative II - "Five Plants" - divides the city into five regions,
each with a biological treatment plant located at: Suzano (16.9
m3/sec); ABC (15.1 m3/sec); Penha (28.9 m3/sec); Butanta (24.3
m3/sec); and Santo Amaro (8.4 m3/sec). The effluents of all these
plants would be discharged into the rivers crossing Sao Paulo
which finally flows into the Billings Reservoir.
(iii)  Alternative III - "Barueri" - divides the city into three
regions, each with a biological treatment plant located at:
Suzano (16.9 m3/sec); ABC (15.1 m3/sec); and Barueri (61.6
m3/sec). This alternative is similar to Alternative I but differs
in the location of the Barueri plant whose effluent would discharge
into one of the rivers crossing Sao Paulo, as in the case of the
other two plants, which finally discharge their effluent into the
Billings Reservoir.
Economic Comparison of the Three Alternatives
2.02      The following table shows the present values of the three alter-
natives, taking into consideration investments, maintenance and operation costs
over a period of 20 years and using different rates of discounts.



ANNEX I
Page 3
Present Value of Alternatives, Including Investments,
Operation, and Maintenance Costs /1
(Cr$ billions)
Alternative                 Discount Rates
6%          11%
I                    16.84         12.89
II                    16.34         12.23
III                    16.41         12.48
/1   US$1 = Cr$10 (January 1976).
Comparing the present value of costs of the three alternatives at a discount
rate of 11%, the difference between the highest and lowest cost is about
5%, which does not provide for a decision factor in choosing the best alter-
native on economic grounds. Therefore, other non-quantifiable considerations
discussed below were taken into account for the selection of the best alterna-
tive.
2.03      For the comparison of the three alternatives, a special study was
developed in order to predict the behavior of the water resources around
Greater Sao Paulo. This study considered the present and future pollution
loads deriving from the population and industrial activities, as well as the
hydraulics of the rivers and meteorological conditions of the area. The study
used a modified mathematical model developed by the Environmental Protection
Agency of the USA, "EPA," which is based on the well-known "Streeter-Phelps"
formula.  The most important conclusions of the study were the following:
(i)  The present quality of the water resources in the Greater
Sao Paulo area in terms of organic loads and dissolved oxygen
is very unsatisfactory. Conditions in the future, if organic
loads are not reduced by sewage treatment as proposed in the
Master Plan, would be unacceptable (see Attachment 4, Annex 1).
(ii)  Effluents coming from a secondary treatment, together with an
increase of rain run-off due to urban growth in Greater Sao Paulo,
will contribute to an excessive enrichment of nutrients (substances
of nitrogen and phosphorus) leading to a eutrophication process
(overpopulation of algae and other living organisms) in the final
water reservoirs;



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(iii) The eutrophication phenomenon is a slow process and in the case of
the Billings Reservoir its effects will be reduced because the main
body of the reservoir will be separated by dams, leaving 60% of its
volume free of pollution. It is also expected to reduce, or to
avoid at a later stage, the eutrophication problems through recovery
methods or by the reduction of one of the main nutrients through a
tertiary treatment process.
2.04      From the results of the study made to calculate the behavior of the
water resources around Greater Sao Paulo, an important conclusion was drawn
concerning the selection process of the proposed alternatives. The treated
sewage has a residual organic load and nutrient content which may increase
and/or accelerate the eutrophication process in the final water reservoirs.
Therefore, it is better to leave the pollution in one of the final water
reservoirs only, leaving the other for more useful purposes. This conclusion
eliminates Alternative I, which uses two reservoirs as the final receivers of
the treated sewage. In making this decision, the Pirapora reservoir would be
preserved as a future water supply source for Greater Sao Paulo.
2.05      In comparing the two remaining alternatives, Nos. II and III, the
following factors were taken into account:
(i) The environmental impact on the water resources. The location
of the sewage treatment plant of Penha in alternative II has
the disadvantage of its 28.9 m3/sec effluent being carried
along a densely populated portion of the Tiete river, thus
presenting a potential nuisance;
(ii) The location of treatment plants and wind effects. The sewage
treatment plants will be of an "activated sludge process type,
which does not produce foul odors or inconvenience to the
neighborhood. However, in the event of operational failure in the
treatment plants, Alternative II would be at a disadvantage, since
four of these five plants, representing more than 80% of the total
sewage flow, are located in the centers of highly-urbanized areas;
(iii) Land use. Alternative II includes two additional plants located
in very expensive areas of the city which are already urbanized,
whereas Alternative III has its main plant (Barueri) outside the
city, taking advantage of land made available by the rectification
of the Tiete river;
(iv) Final sludge disposal. Alternative III locates the Barueri plant,
accounting for 66% of the total treated sewage, near quarries long
since abandoned by mining companies extracting construction materials
in Greater Sao Paulo. This land will be used for the final disposal
of sludge from the Barueri plant and probably also from the ABC
plant. Seen from this point of view, Alternative III is more
advantageous than the others.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(v) Sewage Collection System. The location of the Barueri plant in
Alternative III will facilitate the collection of sewage since the
development of Greater Sao Paulo is moving in that direction.
(vi) Expansion of Future Sewage Treatment Plant. Alternative II with
its five treatment plants in the built-up area of Sao Paulo is less
favorably located than Alternative III, since the latter has its
main treatment plant on a large stretch of empty land available for
future expansion.
2.06      Taking all the above into consideration, Alternative III was selected
as the most appropriate solution and from it the Sewerage and Sewage Treatment
Master Plan was developed. Progressive services for the population of Greater
Sao Paulo in terms of sewage collection and treatment is shown in paragraph
5.09.
2.07      The collected sewage will be brought to the treatment plants where
the process begins with a preliminary treatment through which solid matter,
such as sand and floating elements, will be removed. The liquid effluent is
then transferred to a tank where it has close contact with artificially-injected
air which oxidizes the dissolved and suspended organic matter. This process
is accelerated by the addition of sludge taken from a secondary sedimentation
tank, the next step in the treatment process. Finally, the treated effluent
will be disposed of into the water courses. The sludge removed from the
sedimentation tank will be unaerobically treated in digestion tanks, where it
will be transformed into a kind of humus or soil conditioner. This sludge
will be further thickened and dried and could finally be used as a soil
conditioner or as a land filler. Another alternative for its utilization as a
light construction aggregate is under study by the University of Sao Paulo.



GRLAHI'E  SAO PAULO SEWAGEC COLLEMI OM ANIRL   MN I PHOJI'EJ-
National Housing Bank (BNH)
Superintendency of The Sanitation Finance System (SFS)
Organization Chart
SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT
ANALYSIS AND                     TECHNICAL 
PLANNING                       CONTROL                         FINANCES
PLANNING AND                   CONSTRUCTION                     OPERATIONS
_    _ _PROGRAMMING            _      _CONTROL_ _                  PROGRAMMING
TECHNICAL                      TECHNICAL                          ANCIAL
ANALYSIS                      ASSISTANCE    J                 ORATIONS
> 4
COST ANALYSIS                    TECHNICAL                   CONTROL OF STATE                    H
AUDITING                    SANITATION FUNDS
World Bank-7952



ANNEX 1
ATTACHMINT 2
CHART NO. 3
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
COMPANHIA DE SANEAI4ENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO   (SABESP)
ORGANIZATION CHART
DIRECTORS       SUPERINTENDENTS
Economic Planning
Water Planning for Region 1
PLANNING        Sewerage Planning for Region 1
Water & Sewerage Planning for Region 2
Programs Development Advisor
Systems Projects
CON-         Distribution & Collection Projects
STRUCTION      Systems Implementation
ADMINIS-                                      Distribution & Collection Implementation
TRATIVE                                       Water Production
PRESIDENT                         Sewage Treatment and Disposal
COUNCIL                        OPERATION      Distribution & Collection
Administration of Isolated Systems
Selling
Accounting
FINANCE        Budgeting
Finances
Supply
ADMINIS-       Transportatiorn
TRATION        Personnel
Legal



ANNEX 1
ATTACHMENT 3
dHART 4.1
INFANT MORTALITY IN SAO PAULO
Infant Mortality
Per 1000 Births
a - Greater Sao Paulo, excluding Sao Paulo Municipality
b - Municipality of Sao Paulo
\
150   1> 
_ _.   _   ,. -
*                           |; ; ' o *  | - r  Z  S        Year
Table 4.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATIOS PER 1000 BIRTHS
IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES
FROM 1945 to 1949 AND FROM 1964 to 1966
[.                                  Coefficient of Infant Mortality
Countries
1945 - 1949           1964 - 1966
Sweden                            26                      13
Denmark                           41                      19
Holland                           40                      14
England and Wales                 39                      19
Scotland                          51                      23
United States                     33                      23
Australia                         23                      18
Japan                             67                      19
Sri Lanka                        111                      56
India (*)                        177                      73
Philippines                      115                      73
Mexico                           105                      54
Jamaica                           90                      35
Venezuela                         98                      48
Chile                            150                     107
Nigeria (*)                      110                      70
Source: A companion to medical studies. Blackwell Scientific Publication,
Oxford and Edinburg, 1970.
(*)     The ratios are representative of some regions and not for
the entire country:



ANNEX 1
ATTACHMENT 4
BRAZIL
'GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Pollution Loads and Deterioration of Water Courses
in Greater Sao Paulo
1975     1980      1985    2000
Population (million inhabitants)
Total                                              9.6      12.3     14.0      21.6
Provided with sewerage services                    4.0       5.3      9.4      19.0
Sewage Flows (m3/s)
Domestic sewage                                 12      15        28        70
Industrial sewage                                9      11        14        24
Total                                           21      26        42        94
Pollution Loads (in tons of BOD-/ per day)
Domestic sewage                                250     345       649    1,824
Industrial sewage                              270     530       400      670
Urban run-off                                   90     110       130       190
Total                                          610     985    1,179    2,684
Dilution Capacity of Water Courses
Natural river flows in Greater S. P.
(m3/sec)                                    87       87       87        87
Flows taken out by SABESP and
industry (m3/sec)                           23       27        26       50.
Remanent flows for dilution (m3/sec)            64      60        61        37
Average dilution index (relation
between remanent river flows and
total sewage flows)                           3      2.3       1.5      0.4
Average concentration of pollution loads
in the water courses 2/
BOD average (mg/l)                              80     120       150      250
Concentration ratio related to 1975            100     150       188       313
1/ BOD is an indicator expressing presence of degradable organic matter
in water (e.g. high levels of BOD and absence of Dissolved Oxygen (DO)
result in offensive odors and environmental nuisances, in addition to
the potential health hazards). BOD measured at 200 centigrade and
five days incubation period.
2/ Estimated BOD in the water courses after dilution of total sewage with
river flows.



ANNEX 1
ATTACHMENT 5
BRAZIL
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COSTS 1978 - 1983
Local Monetary Unit (UPC 000) 1/            In US$ Million
Local        Foreign    Total       Local       Foreign        Total
X -Treatment Plants
Equipment            1,132.1       4,308.4    5,440.5       16.4         62.5          78.9
Civil Works          7,429.6       2,649.5   10,079.1    107.7           38.5        146.2
Subtotal           8,561.7       6,957.9   15,519.6    124.1          101.0        225.1
-and Acquisition       3,545.7         --        3,545.7      51.4          --           51.4
3   umping Stations
Equipment              172.9          707.6      880.5       2.5         10.3         12.8
Civil Works          2,091.2         652.5    2,743.7       30.3          9.5         39.8
Subtotal           2,264.1       1,360.1    3,624.2       32.8         19.8         52.6
Interceptors
Materials            1,320.8          566.0    1,886.8      19.2           8.2         27.4
Civil Works          3,223.5         788.4    4,001.9       46.7         11.3         58.0
Subtotal           4,544.3       1,354.4    5,888.7       65.9         19.5         85.4
S Collectors and
House Connections
Materials            4,284.8       1,831.9    6,116.7       62.1         26.6          88.7
Civil Works         12,264.8       1,996.9   14,261.7    177.8           29.0        206.8
Subtotal          16,549.6       3,828.8   20,378.4    239.9           55.6        295.5
Consultancy Services  4,788.0        2,020.6    6,808.6       69.4          29.3         98.7
Basic Cost          40,253.4      15,521.8   55,765.2    583.5          225.2        808.7
Physical
Contingencies          7,343.2       3,097.6   10,440.8    106.5            44.9       151,4
Subtotal          47,596.6      18,619.4   66,206.0    690.0          270.1        960.1
Price
Contingencies            --             --         --        193.2          86.3        279.5
Total Cost            47,596.6      18,619.4   66,206.0    883.2          356.4      1,239.6
1-  Proposed Bank Loan                                                         110.0
1   1 UPC = Cr$213.80 = US$14.5
US$1.00 = Cr$14.74 (Aug. 77)



GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1978            1979            1980            1981            1982             1983
BARUERI REGION
House Connections and Collectors      -                  - _          _            _  _ .  .       _
Interceptors and Pumping Stations    -  -  ------
Treatment Plant                                                     _ _                                                _ .  l   . - , .
ABC REGION
House Connections and Collectors
Interceptors and Pumping Stations                  -                                  _-_ _-_ -  -  - 
Treatment Plants           *                          ___._ . -  -  ...
SUZANO REGION
House Connections and Collectors
Interceptors and Pumping Stations
Treatment Plants
ISOLATED REGIONS
House Connections and Collectors                    ___
Interceptors and Pumping Stations                   _                                  _            _                  __ 3      __
Treatment Plants                                                         -  -  -  -   _c
LEGEND
- - - DESIGN
CONSTRUCTION
World Bank  18382



el, ,,.    LGILAIl . SAO AiAUlO SE;IIAGE COC  ..) i S - lAi.N   k.MO C)
Investment Schedule   Prices of August 1977 - ilLillions U.S. Dollars
T R E A T M E N T    P I. A N T S
1978              1979           _    1980                  1981                 198                 1983                  TOTAL
F     L     T     F     L       T      F     L      T       F     L      T      F      L      T      F     L       T      F      L      T
Equipment          5.8   1.4   7.2  14.6    3.8   18.41 18.6    4.8   23.4  19.4    5.0   24.4  17.2    4.6   21.8  21.0    5.5   26.5   96.6   25.1   121.7
Civil Works        3.3  14.0  17.3   8.0   34.8   42.8 _10.0   44.3   54.3  10.8   46.2   57.0   9.1   41.5   50.6  11.2   51.0   68.2   52.4  231.8   284.2
and Acquisitfon          3.0   3.0          7.4    7.4           9.1    9.1                 10.0          9.9    9.9          12.0   12.0           51.4    51.4
/ _7.6 _ 4,6.___686c  ._7_ 89N~2.5 =32__2A              ~L 863_5 0 82.fi                                                     i5 ,    0,   1                4* 53wz5,
P U M P I N G    S T A T I O N S
Equipment          0.8   0.2   1.0   1.5    0.3    1.8   2.0    0.6    2.6   3.4    0.8    4.2   4.6    1.1    5.7   6.6    1.7    8.3   18.9    4.7    23.6
Civil Works        0.4   2.3   2.7   1.0    4.7    5.7   1.4    6.4    7.8   2.4   10.5   12.9   3.2   13.9   17.1   4.3   20.5   24.8   12.7   58.3    71.0
TOTAL            2 5              3.                                 1                           7            22.58   _    . 22.2    _.33.1 jL66 3.Q 9 4, 6
INT E R C E P T O R S
.8r1,,s       V0. 3   0.6   0.9   0.7    1.6    2.3j 0.7    1.6    2.3   1. 7    3.8    5.5   4.4   10.4   14.8   5.8   13.    19 .2   13.6   31.4   45.0
iCivil Works        0.2   2.0   2.2   0.7    4.8    5.5   0.7    4.8    5.5   1.7   11.3   13.0   5.2   30.8   36.0   6.7   40.2   46.9   15.2   93.9   109.1
L   TOTAL       _ 2 0.5   2.6   3.1   1.4    6.4 _78L4    6.4    7.8   3. 4   15.1   18.5   9.6_ 41.2   50.8  12.5   53.6   661.8  125.3   154.1
C O L L E C T O R S
ainterials      1 5.1  12.0  17.1   5.1   12.0   17.1   7.0   16.3   23.3i| 8.8   20.7   29.5 110.1   24.0   34.1 410.1   23.9   34.0   46.2  108.9   155.1
ivil Works      | 6.0  35.6  41.6   6.0   35.6   41.6   8.2   48.5   56.7 l10.5   61.2   71.7 4L2   71.0   83.2  12.2   71.0   83.255.1  322.9   378.0
TOT AL      1111  47.6  58.7 |111.1   47.6   58.JL 5.2  64.8   80   19.3   81.9  101.2 LL22.3   95.0  117.3 232.3   94.9 _17.2 1 32_.8                  53
T O T A L
fquipment          12.0  14. 2  26.2  21.9   17.7   39.628.3   23.3   51.6  33.3   30.3   63.6  36.3   40.1   76. 4  43.5   44.5   88. 0  175.3  170.1   345.4
Ci_vil Works      |9.9  53.9  63.8  15.7   79.9   95.6  20.3  104.0  124.3  25.4  129.2  154.6  29.7  157.2  186.9  34.4  182.7  217.1 1135.4  706.9   842.4
Land Acquisition 4        3.0   3.0           7.4    7.44         9.1    9.1          10.0   10.0           9.9    9.9          12.0   12.0           51.4    51.8
. Tn T.S.9.-7-1._1_9-3.0 i 37.6_ 105,Q   14>L4&.6  136.4   185.0 1|58.7  169.5 . 228.2.0  207.2  273.2 _L7-9  739.2  3  .L310.7  928.4  1239,6
Legend:  F = Foreign Cost
L = Local Cost
T = Total Cost                                                                                                                                         Pm



ANNEX 1
ATTACHMFNT 8
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF PROJECT CONTRACTS
Forecast Date    Forecast Value
BID                                  for Invitation   US$ million
Sewage Treatment Plants - three plants
with the following capacities:
Barueri: 7 m3/sec; ABC: 6 m3/sec;
and Suzano: 1.5 m3/sec        Equipment             1/78           105.0
Civil Works           8/78           280.0
Pumping Stations
Four stations with capacities of
15, 10, 3, and I m3/sec
Equipment             8/78            16.0
Civil Works           8/78            55.0
Y'lwo stations with capacities of
0.5 m3/sec each
Equipment             1/79              0.4
Civil Works           1/79              1.0
One station of 5.2 m3/sec capacity
Equipment             1/80              0.8
Civil Works           1/80              1.8
One station of 15 m3/sec capacity
Equipment             1/81              5.8
Civil Works           1/81             13.0



ANNEX 1
ATTACHMENT 9
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATES SCHEDULE OF LOAN DISBURSEMENT
(in US$ millions)
Quarterly           Cumulative           % of
IBRD Fiscal Year           Disbursement         Disbursement          Total
1978-79
Sept. 30, 1978                 1.6                  1.6               1.5
Dec.  31, 1978                 2.2                  3.8               3.5
Mar.  31, 1979                 2.0                  5.8                5.3
June  30, 1979                 2.4                  8.2               7.5
1979-1980
Sept.30,  1979                 3.6                 11.8              10.7
Dec. 31,  1979                 4.2                 16.0              14.5
Mar. 31,  1980                 5.1                 21.1               19.2
June 30,  1980                 5.3                 26.4               24.0
1980-1981
Sept. 30, 1980                 5.6                 32.0               29.1
Dec.  31, 1980                 5.8                 37.8               34.4
Mar.  31, 1981                 6.8                 44.6               40.5
June  30, 1981                 7.1                 51.7               47.0
1981-82
Sept. 30, 1981                  7.4                59.1               53.7
Dec.  31, 1982                  7.5                66.6               60.5
Mar.  31, 1982                  5.0                71.6               65.1
June  31, 1982                 4.4                 76.0               69.1
1932-1983
Sept. 30, 1982                  5.0                81.0               73.6
D)ec.  31, 1982                5.0                 86.0               78.2
Mar.  31, 1983                  5.2                91.2               82.9
June 30,  1983                 5.4                 96.6               87.8
1983-1984
Sept. 30, 1983                 6.2                102.8               92.7
Dec.  31, 1983                  7.2               110.0              100.0



ANNEX 2
Page 1
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
1.   Basic Document
The basic document, upon which all SABESP forecasts were made, is the
Global Feasibility Study (Estudo de Viabilidade Global-EVG) prepared by SABESP
in July 1977. It was revised in August 1977 for both volume of sewage collected
and unaccounted-for water at the Bank's request. This document is an annual re-
quirement by BNH for each state sanitation company. In the annual revisions, the
companies modify the projections to include actual accomplishments as well as
latest available cost and tariff data. The monetary unit used in these studies
is3the UPC 1/; the physical volume unit used in the studies is the cubic meter
(m ). Modifications to the EVG for purposes of the appraisal report are identi-
fied by two asterisks in the left hand margin (**).
2.   Methodology Used To Forecast Investment Requirements
(i) First, the entire state was subdivided into eleven geographic
watershed basins.
(ii) Five different projections were evaluated to determine the most
adequate basis for projecting future population in each of the
eleven basins.
(iii) Cities which are not expected to join the SABESP-PLANASA
program were segregated in each basin 2/.
(iv) For the Metropolitan Sao Paulo region and for the Baixada
Santista region, the existing physical facilities are known,
simplifying the projections of future facilities. For the
interior regions, present service levels were taken from two
additional census reports or were estimated from census data.
I/   Unidade Padrao de Capital, a "constant" monetary equivalent, which is indexed
quarterly, using the same index as the Federal Treasury Bonds. This index
supposedly maintains the purchasing power of the cruzeiro and thus has the
effect of eliminating inflation from the base.
2/   On May 18, 1975, the State of Sao Paulo's PLANASA program (Plano de Abaste-
cimento de Agua do Estado de Sao Paulo-PEAG) was officially modified with
BNH approval. The revision divided the cities into three alternative
groups. Alternative I comprised those cities which had already given
SABESP a concession and which had transferred their assets to SABESP.
Alternative II comprised those cities desiring to join SABESP but which
had not formally done so. (BNH and FAE would finance 100% of the cost of
the projects for either alternative). Alternative III comprised cities
wislhing to retain their own operations. In this alternative, BNH and FAE
would each. finance 37.5% of the project cost; SABESP would define criteria
for calculating tariffs, provide a plan of accounts which the municipality
must use, and these cities must provide SABESP with their investment plan
which SABESP would execute.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(v)  The investment required for water supply was then developed to
attain the PLANASA goal of 80% of the population served in 80%
of the States' 571 urban centers.
(vi)  The investment required for sewerage facilities was taken from
the proposed project for Metropolitan Sao Paulo 1/, projecting
additional investments needed in the Baixada Santista area and,
then, for the rest of the state, generating investments slightly
superior to the estimated population growth to allow for
improvement in the level of service.
3.   Value of the Investments
Water Supply
(i) Where projects existed, the values were taken from those projects.
(ii)  Where no project existed and/or for periods of time beyond existing
projects:
(a)  For cities of 5,000 inhabitants or more, a factor of 8 UPC
(US$112) per person was used as a base for the increased
population.
(b)  For cities of under 5,000 inhabitants, factors of 6 UPC
(US$84) up to 1980 and of 5 UPC (US$70) thereafter were used.
Sewerage
(i) The values from the proposed project were incorporated for the
Metropolitan Sao Paulo region.
(ii)  For cities with 5,000 inhabitants and over, criteria similar to
3(ii)(a) were used with a value of 10 UPC (US$140) per person.
(iii) For cities under 5,000 inhabitants, no investment was considered.
4.   Debt Service On The Investment
(i)  All existing financing contracts were analyzed, whether in amortiza-
tion or whether they are still being drawn down, and debt service
was projected based on the actual remaining grace period (if any)
and the final maturity date of each contract.
(ii)  For all future investments, excluding the proposed project, debt
service was projected on the basis of an average 2-year grace
period and 18-year amortization.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(iii) For the proposed project the Feasibility Study debt
service for the BNH and FAE loans was calculated at 2 years
grace and 30 years amortization because the study was prepared
before final loan terms were known. This grace period was
(**)      modified from 2-years to 4-1/2 years and final maturity from
32 years to 34-1/2 years for this appraisal report. A second
modification was made to include the debt service (and long-
term debt) for the investment needed in the Alternative III
cities. Debt service was not included in the study since SABESP
should recover it from the cities involved.
5.   Operating, Maintenance and Administrative Costs
(i)  The direct costs of water and sewerage for 1976 were known for
each watershed basin. Indirect costs were distributed between
water and sewerage in proportion to the known direct costs.
(ii) All costs were then transformed into UPC/1000 gallons of water
billed (sold) and UPC/1000 gallons of sewage collected (80% of
water sold to each household with a sewerage connection is con-
sidered as collected). The cruzeiro/UPC relationship used for
transformation of cruzeiros was the average value in effect
during the fourth quarter of 1976 (CR$168.33=1 UPC) and the
first quarter of 1977 (CR$183.65). For treatment costs at
the new plants, the operating costs were taken directly from
the proposed project.
(iii) A single cost efficiency reduction of 3.85% was applied to 1977
which was based upon budgetary commitments.
6.   Volume of Water Sold
(i)  Histograms of consumption were prepared for each watershed basin
by tariff category where meters exist, and an average volume was
developed per connection.  Where meters did not exist, 3all con-
nections were classified as "minimum consumption" (15m /month).
(ii) For Sao Paulo (Basin 1) the volume of water sold was developed
from the amount of water produced, less unaccounted-for water.
Unaccounted-for water was projected as follows:
1977 - 35%               1980 - 28%
1978 - 32%               1981 - 26%
1979 - 30%               1982 - 25%
1983 - 20%
For all other basins, the average volume sold was applied to all
connections, and the amount of water produced was developed by
adding the above unaccounted-for water.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
7.   Volume of Sewage Collected and Treated
(i) For metropolitan Sao Paulo, data was extracted from the proposed
project.
(ii) For the other basins, 80% of the average amount of water sold per
sewerage connection was used.
8.   Tariffs
The tariff readjustment approved for implementation in September
1977 was used for water supply and sewage collection for the metropolitan
Sao Paulo and Santos regions (Basins 1 and 2); existing July tariffs were used
for all other regions because the September readjustment did not affect them.
For treated sewage, two factors were taken into consideration for this appraisal
report.  The first was the inclusion of a Cr$8.00/m3 (40 UPC/1000 m3) as a
temporary "industrial treatment" tariff. This was applied to part of the unused
capacity of the existing primary treatment plants located in Leopoldina and
Pinheiros. SABESP is presently negotiating "treatment" contracts with indus-
tries which are already connected to these existing plants, or near enough for
their effluent to be transported to those plants by other means. SABESP had
data demonstrating that it would cost industries at least Cr$ 17.00/m3 if they
were to treat the effluent themselves, and he was negotiating at Cr$10.00/m3.
To be conservative, Cr$8.00 was used for this special case. The volume was
1/4 m3/second each year from 1978 onward, which would not absorb the unused
capacity of the two existing plants (capacity = 6 m3/sec; in use 2.5 m3/sec).
SABESP in fact felt they would contract more rapidly than the 1/4 m3 rate
because the State Water Law enables them to do so. The second modification
was to utilize 1/8 of the capacity of the new treatment plants for industrial
treatment in the year of completion and 1/4 of the capacity thereafter at the
same industrial treatment tariff used above (industrial sewage is estimated to
occupy 30% of plant capacity of the proposed project). For general application,
the above-mentioned Cr$8.00/m  was reduced to Cr$6.00/m3 for industrial sewage,
and Cr$2.00/m3 for residential sewage for application in 1980 and thereafter,
when the first project treatment plant is completed (Suzano).



ANNEX 2
Page 5
9.   Government Capital Funds
The feasibility study was modified to take care of a situation
which arose subsequent to the preparation of the EVG. The total project
cost was assumed to be financed under PLANASA financing plans for purposes
of EVG. Later, the convenio of August 12, 1977 introduced the state
capital contribution as part of the project financing plan. An adjustment
was made to SABESP's cash flow for the hypothetical finance charges contained
in the state contribution.
10. Fixed Asset Basis for Rate of Return Covenant
The principles upon which this issue is based are the following:
(i)  At the present time, all water and sewerage investment plans
have financing practically guaranteed through the PLANASA
program.
(ii)  SABESP's cash flow needs are projected to be met at a 6%
rate of return level in 1977 and 1978 on the reduced asset
basis. The "declining percentage" of assets being reduced
in future years, as more and more of the Cantareira capacity
is used, was based upon two sources of information:  (a) pro-
duction at each source of supply as shown in SABESP's 1976
annual report, and SABESP's program for increasing those
sources; and (b) SABESP's projected water production require-
ments from the EVG for Bacia 1. 1/  In computing the percentage
of capacity used at Cantareira, the denominator was a constant
33 m3/sec -- its projected capacity (80% of which is installed).
SABESP's sources are as follows:
Capacity Used      Maximum
in 1976         Capacity
---In cubic meters/second---
Guarapiranga                       11.4            11.0
Rio Glaro                           2.0             3.0
Rio Grande                          3.0             5.0
Alto Cotia                          0.6 )
Cabucu                             0.4 )
Baixa Cotia                        0.5 )
Tanque Grande,        )                             2.0
Ururuquara, &       )            0.2
Ribeirao da Estiva )
Cantareira                         5.6             33.0
Total                        23.7             54.0
1/   Bacia 1 covers the Metropolitan Sao Paulo area.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
To complete the declining unused capacity, Cantareira was the variable
source (up to 33.0 m3/sec maximum), and all other sources were assumed to be
used at their maximum. The following table then provides the used and unused
capacities of Cantareira:
Total      Less:  All        Amount        Unused       X of
Volume     Sources Other    Produced by  Cantareira  Unused
Required   than Cantareira  Cantareira   Capacity    Capacity
-------In Cubic Meters per Second ---
1977        25.5           18              7.5          25.5           77
1978        28.6           21              7.6          25.4           77
1979        30.5           21              9.5          23.5           71
1980        31.8           21             10.8          22.2           67
1981        34.6           21             13.3          19.7           60
1982        36.6           21             15.6          17.4           53
1983        39.1           21             18.1          14.9           45
1984        41.5           21             20.5          12.5           38
1985        44.0           21             23.0          10.0           30
1986        46.5           21             25.5           7.5           23
1987        49.0           21             28.0           5.0           15
1988        51.6           21             30.6           2.4            7
1989        54.2           21             33.2            -             0
The maximum unused capacity was considered to be 67% for the purpose of this
report. Both the values for Cantareira/SAM and final investment data were
provided by SABESP.
Attached are Tables 6.1 through 6.7, which provide the details for
the analysis in Chapter VI.



ANNEX 2
TABLE 6.1                                    ATTACHMENT 1
BRAZIL
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWERAGE & SEWAGE TREATMENT PROJECT II
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
BALANCE SHEET STATEMENTS
A U D I T E D
Year Ending December 31                                     1971              1972              1973              1974             1975              1976
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - us$ Million - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                                                4.4              9.6               6.6              8.2               9.6              6.4
Treasury Bonds                                               73.3             56.7              56.3             92.6             121.9             36.3
Receivable From Loans 1/                                      --             160.0             195.0            418.0             420.8            284.4
Other Accounts                                                5.7              1.1               0.9              0.9               1.2              2.1
Sub-Total                                              83.4             227.4             258.8            519.7            553.5             329.2
Long-Term Receivables
Housing Loans                                            1,545.3           2,144.2           3,131.7          4.176.5           5,461.4          7,246.1
Treasury Bonds                                              203.8            528.1             761.1          1,062.3           1,120.0          1,048.8
Mortgages                                                   249.8              7.3               0.8              0.4              -                 -
Other Investments                                            15.2             18.8              40.3            113.1              49.4             40.5
Collecting Agents - IMPS.                                     7.7              2.8               2.3              0.9              -                 -
Property for Resale                                           5.0             10.3              12.9             16.8              20.5             15.1
Mousing Loans in Liquidtion                                    -                -                 -                -              287.9            365.4
Other Accounts                                                1.6              3.9               6.1              8.3               8.4              9.0
Sub-Total                                           2.028.4          2,715.4            3,955.2          5,378.3          6,947.0          8,724.9
Fixed Assets
Land and Buildings                                           14.0             19.0              22.9             25.3              39.1             40.5
Equipment and Installations                                   1.8              2.1               2.8              3.2               3.5              4.0
Other Fixed Assets                                            0.8              1.2               1.6               1.9              2.2              2.7
16.6             22.3              27.3             30.4             44.8              47.2
Accumulated Depreciation                                     (1.4)            (2.2)             (3.4)             (4.4)            (5.9)            (8.1)
Sub-Total                                              15.2             20.1               23.9             26.0             38.9              39.1
Other Assets
Interest & Monetary Correction on Loans
to Entities in Liquidation                                  -                 -                 -                -              34.8             197.0
Prepaid Insurance                                             0.1              0.6               0.1                -                -               -
Material in Transit                                           0.1              0.8               0.2               0.1               -               -
Interest Rec. on Treasury Bonds                               -                 -                 -               0.5               0.4              0.5
Sub-Total                                               0.2               1.4               0.3              0.6             35.2             197.5
Total Assets                                          2,127.2           2,964.3           4,238.2          5,924.6          7,474.6           9,290.7
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Entities of the National
Housing System (Deposits)                                  26.1             64.5              45.0            111.7             324.7            634.4
Sundry Creditors                                              3.3              9.2              16.2             19.2              29.5             41.9
29.4             73.7              61.2            130.9            354.2             676.3
Long-Tem Debt
Employees' Indemnity Fund                                1,741.5           2,379.5           3,373.3          4,424.7          5,337.7           6,400.3
BNH Housing Bonds                                            31.2             35.4              36.3             37.8              36.2             34.2
Foreign Loans:
I.D.B. (IDB/BNH 104/SF-BR)                                 18.9             21.0              25.4             30.7              37.9             48.4
A.I.D.                                                     10.2             15.8              19.4             29.8              40.6             40.6
I.B.R.D.                                                    -                 -                -                -                 0.9             12.5
Miscellaneous                                               0.2              0.3               -                 -              148.8            166.9
1,802.0          2,452.0           3,454.4          4,523.0           5,602.1          6,702.9
Other Liabilities
Unallocated Collections and
Repayments                                                 12.0             16.0              14.3              4.7               8.8             30.8
Deferred Income                                               -               13.3              11.9               8.9              9.3             10.6
Emp. Ind. Fund - to Confirm                                   -                 -                -                 -              215.6            189.7
Other Unidentified Receipts                                   -                 -                -                 -               34.8            185.2
12.0             29.3              26.2             13.6             268.5            416.3
Capital and Reserves
Capital                                                     177.5            160.9             321.5            442.1           1,068.1          1,392.1
Reserves                                                    106.3            248.4             374.9             815.0            281.7            103.1
283.8            409.3             696.4          1,257.1           1,349.8          1,495.2
Total Liabilities                                    2,127.2           2,964.3           4,238.2          5,924.6           7,574.6          9,290.7
1/  DOuing 1971 thtough 1974, BYH considered all items over 180 days as long-term.  In 1975, BNH changed to 365 days or more as the long-
term criterion. Data shown for 1972 through 1974 was estimated by BNH auditors.
October 1977
LCPWS



TABLE 6.2
BRAZIL
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWERAGE AND SEWAGE TREATMENT PROJECT II
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
-------------------------------------US$ Million.------------.-----------.-----------------
Year Ending December 31                                  1971         1972         1973       - 1974          1975         1976       1977         1978         1979
--------------___-------------------Audited-------------------------- 1---------Estimated 1/----------
REVENUES FROM OPERATIONS                                                                                                                      E
Loan Income                                              120.3        120.4        173.8         245.8        362.7        437.4        547.4      688.8        833.0
Service Income                                            36.8         47.5         65.2          83.0        111.1        140.3        175.0      210.0        243.6
Other Income                                               5.9         60.3        102.1         105.1         85.8         89.5         --         15.4          15.4
Total                                             163.0         228.2        341.1        433.9        559.6        667.2         722.4      914.2      1,092.0
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administrative Expenses                                   14.5         17.6          24.5         36.2         43.9         55.7        121.8      141.4         161.0
Financial Expenses                                        83.5        115.3         159.0        196.7        273.4        336.5        431.2      523.6         625.8
Other Expenses                                             4.0         10.6          13.0         15.1         21.7         19.0         --         --            --
Total                                             102.0         143.5        196.5        248.0        339.0        411.2         553.0      665.0        786.8
Internal Cash Generation                            61.0         84.7        144.6        185.9        220.6        256.0         169.4      249.2        305.2
CAPITAL RESOURCES
Employees' Indemnity Fund (FGTS) -Net of Withdrawals .424.4            523.7         727.1       912.4      1,135.1      1,199.6       1,408.4   1,541.4       1,673.0
Amortization of Loan Principal                           242.5        551.1          325.2       618.7        570.2        664.1         803.6      988.4      1,251.6
Foreign Loans                                              4.1          8.7            8.6        16.5         19.9         13.6          36.4       56.0         84.0
Short-Term Deposits-Net                                   --           49.7           --          --          301.0         20.4         162.4      172.2        186.2
Short-Term Investments-Net (Bonds)                         0.7          --            --          -_           __          163.1         310.8      310.8        238.0
All Other 2/                                               1.7          27.3          28.0        97.7         13.6        271.3          --         --           --
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT                           734.4      1,245.2       1,233.5      1,831.2      2,260.4      2,588.1       2,891.0   3,318.0    _3738.0
FUNDS APPLIED
3/
New Loans Granted                                        618.4        961.1      1,021.9       1,535.4      1,939.4      2,569.7       2,324.3   3,318.0    3,738.0
Foreign Loan                                               0.8           0.8          0.8          0.8          0.8           1.7
Short-Term Deposits-Net                                   --            --           19.2          1.1          --            --              3/
Short-Term Investments-Net (Bonds)                        --          255.6         179.7        254.0         50.1           __         566.7
All Other  2/                                            115.2          27.7         11.9         39.9         270.1         16.7
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                        734.4      1,245.2      1,233.5      1,831.2       2,260.4      2,588.1      2,891.0   3,318.0        3,738.0
FGTS - Withdrawals                                        291.8        378.1        482.6         618.3        860.2      1,061.2      1,135.4   1,300.6        1,474.2
1/  Data extracted from 1977-1979 budget-forecast of BNH.
2/ Includes net increase or decrease in working capital.
3/ Adjusted for the 20% mandatory reduction in investments.
October 1977



TABLE 6.3
CIA DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO (SABESP)
AUDITED BALANCE SHEETS 1973 THROUGH 1976
IN MILLIONS OF CRUZEIROS AND YEAR-END U.S. DOLLAR (MILLIONS) EQUIVALENT
1973                     1974                     1975                    1976
CR$        US$           CR         US$          CR$          US$         CR$         US$
Cash and Banks                                                           107.2      17.2          71.1        9.5          49.1         5.4        182.4       14.8
Special Bank Accounts                                                     45.0       7.2           --         --           86.3         9.5         --          --
Short-Term Investments                                                   81.9       13.2           --         --            --          --          --          --
Accounts Receivable-Customers-Gross                                      112.2      18.0         166.0       22.3         222.8        24.6        343.7       27.8
(Reserve For Bad Debts)                                                   (3.4)    (0.5)          (5.0)      (0.7)         (6.7)       (0.7)       (10.3)      (0.8)
Other Accounts Receivable                                                 13.6       2.2          16.8        2.3          33.2         3.7         58.8        4.8
Inventories-Gross-Operating                                               35.7       5.7          49.0        6.6          72.0         7.9         80.5        6.5
(Reserve For Inventories)                                                (2.6)    (0.4)           (2.6)      (0.3)         (2.6)       (0.3)        (2.6)     (0.2)
Other Miscellaneous                                                       78.3      12.6          --          --            --           -_
Total Current Assets                                                 467.9      75.2         295.3        39.7         454.1        50.1       652.5       52.9
Fixed Plant In Operation-Cost                                           1801.5    289.7         2871.3      385.9        3699.4       407.8      4394.4       356.1
Fixed Plant In Operation-Monetary Correction                             147.6      23.8         534.1       71.8        1823.6       201.1      3101.2       251.3
(Reserve For Depreciation)                                              (76.2)   (12.3)         (182.7)     (24.6)       (373.0)      (41.1)     (633.5)      (51.3)
Work-In-Progress-Cost                                                   2079.4    334.3         2198.0      295.4        3385.3        373.2      6382.4      517.2
Work-In-Progress-Monetary Correction                                     265.8      42.7         188.2       25.3         340.6         37.6       784.5       63.6
Monetary Correction To Be Compensated                                                            369.1       49.6         338.6         37.3      1297.3      105.1
Total Fixed Assets                                                  4218.1    678.2         5978.0      803.4         9214.5      1015.9    15326.3    1242.0
Investments                                                                9.2       1.5           9.3        1.3          11.3          1.2        14.0        1.1
Deposits                                                                   0.8       0.1           1.2        0.2            7.9         0.9        25.0        2.0
Studies                                                                   29.4       4.7          39.6        5.3          50.8          5.6       175.7       14.2
Other Prepaid Or Deferred                                                  3.1       0.5           6.1        0.8            9.0         1.0        18.1        1.5
Total Assets                                                        4728.5    760.2          6329.5      850.7        9747.6      1074.7    16211.6    1313.7
Debt Payments Due - Local                                                 54.4       8.7          54.7        7.4         230.0         25.4       217.3       17.6
Debt Payments Due - Foreign                                                0.3       -_            0.4        __             3.9         0.4        43.7        3.5
Due To Contractors                                                       134.3      21.6         338.0       45.4         245.5         27.1       630.5       51.1
Due To Suppliers                                                          32.9       5.3         135.4       18.2           89.3         9.8       321.6       26.1
Other Short-Term Payables                                                 46.3       7.4         142.9       19.2          137.1        15.1       311.3       25.2
Total Current Liabilities                                           '268.2      43.0          671.4       90.2         705.8        77.8       1524.4      123.5
Long-Term Debt - Local                                                  1071.5    172.3         1525.9      205.1        2822.5        311.2      6071.2      492.0
Long-Term Debt - Foreign                                                  21.5       3.5          52.5        7.1          195.6        21.6       422.2       34.2
Other Long-Term Payables                                                  --        --            --          --           127.1        14.0       353.3       28.6
Total - Long-Term                                                   1093.0    175.8          1578.4      212.2        3145.2       346.8       6846.7      554.8
Capital Subscribed                                                      2929.5    471.0         2929.5      393.7         5784.8       637.8      7651.1      620.1
Legal Reserve                                                             0.7       0.1           1.9        0.3            2.4         0.2         2.6        0.2
Surplus                                                                   29.2       4.7          53.4        7.1           10.5         1.2         3.0        0.2       Z
Other Reserves                                                           407.9      65.6        1094.9      147.2           98.9        10.9       183.6       14.9
Total Equity                                                        3367.3    541.4          4079.7      548.3        5896.6        650.1      7840.3      635.4
Total Liabilities                                                   4728.5    760.2          6329.5      850.7        9747.6       1074.7    16211.4    1313.7
1973 - CR$6.22/US$1.00
197,: - CR$7.44/US$1.00
1975   CR.A9.07/US$1.00
1976 - CRT812.34/US$l1O0
Current Ratio                                                           1,74                     0.43                      0,64                   0.43
Acid-test Ratio                                                         1.33                     0.37                      0.54                   0.38
Debt % of Capitalization                                                  25%                       28%                      35%                    47%



CIA *r SANEAMENTo BASiCO DO ES.ADO Df SAO PA(fO(? _.ABCSB)
AUDITED INCOME STATEMENTS 1973 THROUGH 1976
Statistical Data                         _                       1973                           1 1974                      1975                         1976
Volume Water Produced m3/6                                        NA                             NA                         805.0                        936.3
Volume Water Sold (City of 3Sao Paulo) m /6                    314.6                           349.3                        378.4                        396.4
Volume Water Sold (Bulk) m /6                                     NA                             95.2                       112.6                        125.0
Volume Water Sold (All Other) m3/6                                NA                             NA                         102.8                        127.5
Unaccounted-for Water-Sao Paulo                                  28.2                            30.2                        30.7                         35.5
Unaccounted for Water-Other                                       NA                              NA                         29.7                         34.7
Number of Water Colnections-Sao Paulo (year end)             687,882                         706,369                      787,270                      916.156
Number of Water Connections-Other (year end) 1/                   NA                              NA                      216,820                      301,638
Number of Sewer Connections-Sao Paulo (year end)             403,107                         413,892                      443,524                      457,024
Number of Sewer Connections-Other (year end)                      NA                              NA
In Millions of Cruzeiros and Year-end U.S Dollar (Millions) Ecjuivlent-
Revenues                                              CR$            US$                 CR$           US$            gR$           US$            CR$            US$
Water                                             139.5           22.4                360.0         48.4         523.8           57.8          766.7           62.1
Sewer                                               52.0           8.4                183.0         24.6         251.4           27.7          346.6           28.1
Other Operating                                       --            --                 35.1          4.7          33.5            3.7           35.0            2.8
Total Revenues                                191.5          30.8                578.1          77.7         808.7           89.2         1148.3          93.0
OPerating Costs
Wages and Salaries                                   NA            NA                (208.9)       (28.1)       (380.5'         (42.0)        (588.3,         (47.7)
Materials                                            NA            NA                ( 48.2)       ( 6.5)        ( 66.4)        ( 7.3)         (104.3)        ( 8.5)
Contracted Services                                 NA             NA                (146.9)       (19.7)       (121.6)         (13.4)        (213.4)         (17.2)
Other                                                NA            NA                ( 60.5)       ( 8.1)       (57)            ( 6.1)           --
Total Operating Cost                        (106.6)        (17.1)              (464.5)        (62.4)       (624.2)         (68.8)        (906.0)        (73.4)
Operating Profit (Loss)                               84.9          13.7                113.6          15.3         184.5           20.4          242.3          19.6
Depreciation                                        (_26.3)        ( 4.2)              ( 88.1)        (11.8)       (130.5)        (14.4)         (174.9)        (14.2)    >4
Income Before Interest                        58.6           9.5                 25.5           3.5          54.0            6.0           67.4            5.4
Financial Costs                                     (  5.3)        ( 0.9)              (  3.3)        ( 0.5)       ( 46.7)         ( 5.1)        ( 73.1)        ( 5.9)  >
Taxes                                               (  0.4)        ( 0.1)              (  3.8)        ( 0.5)       (  3.2)         ( 0.4)        (  2.6)        ( 0.2)
Provisions                                          (  2.4)        ( 0.4)              (  2.0)        ( 0.3)       (  1.7)         ( 0.2)        (  3.6)        ( 0.3)
Miscellaneous Income                                   3,1           0.5                   9.0          1.2           8.7            0.9           15.2            1.2
Net Profit (Loss)                             53.6            8.6                 25.4          3.4          11.1            1.2            3.3            0.2
Operating Ratio - %                                              55.6                            80.3                         77.1                         78.9
Rate of Return - Actual                                           NA                              1.1                          1.4
Rate of Return - Loan Covenant                                    NA                              1.0                          4.0                          6.0
1/  % Metered  Including Santos Region                            NA                              NA                          55.5                         54.2
% Metered Excluding Santos Region                            NA                               NA



TABLE 6.5
CIA DE SANEAMENTO BASICO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO (SABESP)
AUDITED SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
1974 THROUIGR 1976
IN MILLIONS OF CRUZEIROS AND YEAR-END U.S. DOLLAR (MILLIONS) EQUIVALENT
1974                    1975                     1976
CR$        US$          CR$         US$           CR$        Us$
Net Profit For Year                               25.5        3.4          11.0        1.2           3.3        0.2
Depreciation                                      88.1       11.8         130.5       14.4         174.9       14.2
Provision For Doubtful Accounts                   2.0        0.3           1.7        0.2
other
Provided By Operations                           115.6       15.5         143.2       15.8         178.2       14.4
Capital Advances/Contributions                   522.5       70.2         867.6       95.7         $40.4       68.1
Long-Term Debt                                   223.6       30.1        1668.7      184.0        2811.7      227.9
Short-Term Debt
Decrease In Working Capital                      575.4       77.3         --          --           559.3      45.3
other                                              6.6        0.9         127.1       13.9          23.5        1.9
TOTAL SOURCES                                1443.7      194.0        2806.6     309.4        4413.1      357.6
To Fixed Assets                                 1320.9      177.5        2016.3      222.3        3811.7      308.9
To Loan Amortization                             108.6       14.6         469.1       51.7         573.9       46.5              >
Increase In Working Capital                       --                      302.9       33.4          -_         _X
other                                             13.5        1.8          20.8        2.3          28.7        2.3
Difference In Monetary Correction                  0.7        0.1         ( 2.5)      (0.3)         (1.2)      (0.1)              H
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                           1443.7      194.0        2806.6       309.4      4413.1      357.6



TABLE 6.6
COPIPANIIA DE 1ANEAIIET71TO BASICO DO L'STADO DE SAQ PAUI.O ISABEl?)
PROGRAM6 AN_ PINANC44G PLAN
1h l)PC (0D0)
1977          1978       t979           196O         1981         1982         1983     Total  1977/1983
____       ____                                   A~~~~~~~~~~~~~hount  7.
NletropoIitBl  San Paulo                                                      11374         10635       7780           6340          5663         3553         3614        48959          20
Mantop Area                                                                    1463          3002       4912           1413          1616           536          323       13265           5
Interior Artiea                                                                1107          2347       5270           5413          2701         2670         3613        22121          9
TntariorPcftrSp                                                                 11944         1964        762           13166          9980          6759        6550        84345          34
Seereape
aetropolital Sto Paulo-. Bank Projert                                           368          4284       7050          10945          12191        14450        16920        66206         27
Other Cities SaoP In PIro,act                                                  3D25          2370        114           1219           483           313          206         7730          3
otbeotxl ietropoliNtIn  Sa Po ulo                                              3393          6654       7164          12164          12674        14763        17126       73936          30
banto       t Area                                                              1 353        2131       1482           1224           1300          607          424         8561          4
Interior Cities and Other                                                      1039          L377       3636           3849           4011         4191         4206        223t1          9
5785         10202      12282          17237         17985        19565        21758       104814         43
Total  Se Wer4a6g94 e
NiacellaTheOue   Tuveatneota                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~769  =25228866. 3846,                                  6446        8948        25399Y1
Interest Unlu5 g Constructior                                                    2256          3294        4091          4474           4353         4476         5024       27968          11
Total Investcent                                                                22754         29480       36637         37763           36166       37246        42280       243026        998
Total   aesiant                                                                     800            900         500           800           1400         5D0          800         5700          2
Total   Program                                                                 23554         30390       37337          36563          37566   _37746           4_3060 223400
Sources of Finencir37
g3-7        ONI                                                                 221          1626       3161           5467           6346         7726         9223        33794        42.1
Bld                                                                             221.         1628       3161           5467          6346          7726         9221        33794         42.5
State Capital Crants                                                                          1892      2136           2170          1946          1900         1lo60                     10
TOTAl. -641914 PROJECT                                                            442          5344       6466          13144         14640        67312        20328        79514        100.0
Trotal   2rogg g..-~                                                            11164         14028      16323          16174          15366        14566        15814       103835           42  
10790         13560      1 6773         16017 4       1.4652       14080        15286       1003B5           40
Jtate Capital Contritbutions                                                                                            34110                                                               1_
_   _                                                    16D0          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~900   3100  3600  5400   _1°_    _1000_  210                       3
ShD3SI?   2tORrmO                                                                         q            _ 377          18563         37566        W456         43~OT~5      2               100  
402      1013            1406          1987         1320         1722         7891
Bak ReiOtbursemOent to Bug (1U      o) 1/                                        -_              5.6       14.7           19.6          27.7         18,4         24,0        110.0
Bank Reimbursement to BNIt (US$ .1illions) 1/ucwl   emuseBI   akfmsrpr-n    h    olwn
1   In this    ~ ct,5161 (and  others above) will ppO-vide the invea...L   filoancing.  She Panl will reirburte BNII.  Bank  lundo repreeot the folloving
".n-leding"Percentaoge   (1  t'000n  of SANEOSAN, (The Project)         23.4%
Percent of BNH Financing ofSAEGAN(  
Percent of Total Coot of SA1EGRAI3                           2.'
Percent of SA]3rSP' Totsl Investmnent Prog7an                3.2 %



TABLE 6.7
CIA DE SANEAMENTO DO ESTADO DE SAO PAULO (SABESP)
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - ACTUAL/PROJECTED
IN MILLIONS OF UPC - 1977 FORWARD AT CONSTANT PRICE
-------------____---------------- PROJECTED- ------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL
1977         1978         1979         1980          1981           1982         1983           1977-1983
Statistical Data
Volume Water Produced- m3/6                            1,066        1,314        1,543        1,761          1,881         1,992        2,100
Volume Water Sold- m /6                                  693          893        1,080        1,268          1,392         1.494         1,680
Volume Sewage Collected- m                               362          521          662          807            925         1,002        1,168
Volume Sewage Treateda3/6                                 89           97          105           121           137           177           233
Unaccounted-Por Water-X                                   35           32           30            28            26            25            20
Water Revenues-UPC 6                                       7.3         10.2          11.8         13.3          14.8          15.9          16.9
Sewerage Revenues-UPC6                                     2.8          4.5          5.6           7.3           8.9          11.2          15,9
Other Revenues-UPC6                                        0.4          0.5          0.7           0.9           1.0            1.0          1.0
Fixed Assets
Gross Including Monetary Correction                     64.4         80.6        115.5        139.7          172.2         214.2        293.6
Reserve For Depreciation                                (5.3)        (7.3)        (9.7)       (13.1)         (17.3)        (22.5)       (28.9)
Net Fixed Assets-Operating                            59.1         73.3        105.8        126.6          154.9         191.7        264.7
w    Less:  Part of Cantareira/SAM                           (18.0)       (19.5)       (21.9)       (23.8)         (22.5)        (19.8)       (16.7)
Net Fixed Assets (For PROR)                             41.1         53.8         83.9        102.8          132.4         171.9        248.0
~, Work-In Progress                                        49.5         64.9         64.5         75.9           76.3          67.7         23.9
r'     Net Fixed Assets                                     108.6         138,2        170.3        202.5         231.2          259.4        288.6
S  All Other Assets (Working Capital)                          6.1          7.6          9.2         10.7          12.2           13.7         15.2
Total Assets                                        114.7         145.8        179.5        213,2         243.4          273.1        303.8
Long-Term-Debt (Excluding Current Portion)                59.9         83.7        112.9         141.8         164.9         185.7         208.4
Shareholders Equity                                       47.3         51.1         54.5          57.3          60.0          63.0          67.3
Revenues                                                 10.5         13.8         18.1         23.1           28.0          33.0         41.0             167,5
M  Operating Costs                                            (6.9)        (8.7)       (10.3)       (12.1)         (13.2)        (14.1)       (15.7)            (81 0)
.    Operating Gross                                          3.6       5- 1-   --7}F                  1Tu         14.8           1897         7 253T            86,5
0  Depreciation                                               (1.6)        (1.9)        (2.4)        (3.5)          (4.2)         (5.2)         6.4)            (25.2)
m     Income Before Interest and Miscellaneous                 2.0          3.2          5.4          7.5           10.6          13.7         1                 61.3
Interest                                                  (1.3)        (2.8)        (4.1)         (5.4)         (6.7)         (7.8)         (9.5)           (37.6)
i  All Other                                                   --           --            --            --            --
H     Net Income                                              0.7           0.4          1.3          2.1       ~                  59 3.-
so  Net Income                                                0.7           0,4          1.3          2.1            3.9           5.9          9.4              23.7
R  Depreciation                                                1.6          1.9          2.4          3.5           4.2            5.2          6.4              25.2
Interest Charged To Income                                 1.3          2.8          4.1          5.4            6.7           7.8           9.5             37.6
i  5.    Provided By Operations                                  3.6           5.1         7..8         11.0          14.8          18.9          25.3              86.5
Capital Contributions                                      __           2.0          2.1          2.3            2.1           2.0           2.1             12.6
H  Long-Term Debt                                            22.4         28.2          34.5         35.2          32.6           32.8         34.2             219.9
All   Other--------                                                                                          _  _ _ _
Total Sources                                          26. 0         35,3         44.4        48.5          49.5            53.7           .T             319.0
TO:  Investment - Non-Project                             20.8         24.5         26,0         22.5          18.4           t5.9          15.2            143.4
P' TO:  Investment - Project                                  0.4           5.1          8.5        13.1          14.6            17.4         20.4              79.4
Total  Debt Service                                        3.2          4.8          6.8          9.1           11.1          13.2          15.9             64.1
All Other (Working Capital and Misc. Inve5tment)           1.6          Q.9          a.1           3.6           5.4           7.2          10.1             32.1
Total Applications                                     26.0                     3        44 ,     .5          49.S          53.7         61.6             319.0
x In Covenant For Misc.llaneous                          --             0.5        0.5           1.5            1.5           2.5          3.5
Rate of Return  Eq5uivalent                               6.0           6.0        7.0           8.0           9.0            9.0          9.0
Operating Ratio                                          65.7          63.0       56.9         52.4          47.1           42.7     '   38.3
Debt As % Of CAs,ita1i7atioo-7.                          56            62         67           71            73             75           76
Debt Service Ratio                                                      0.8       0.9            1.0           1.1           1,2          1.3



ANNEX 3
BRAZIL
GREATER SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON PROJECT FILE
1.   Obras de Saneamento e Controle da Poluciao das Aguas na Regiao
Metropolitana de Sao Paulo - SABESP - Nov. 1977.
2.   Recursos Hidricos para o Abastecimento da Regiao Metropolitana
de Sao Paulo - SABESP - April 27, 1977.
3.   Pan American Health Organization - Annual Report 1976.
4.   Acordo entre o Ministerio das Minas e Energia e o Governo
do Estado do Sao Paulo - June 15, 1976.
5:   Indicadores Economicos e de Custos da Construcao Habitacional -
BNH - June 1977.
6.   Convenio BNH - Governo do Estado de Sao Paulo - Aug. 12, 1977.
7.   Convenio BNH - Prefeitura do Municipio de Sao Paulo - Decreto
No. 8468 de 8 de Setembro de 1976.
8.   Prevencao e o Controle da Poluicao do Meio Ambiente - Decreto
No. 8468 de 8 de Septembro de 1976.
9.   Estudo de Viabili4dade Global (Global Feasibility Study) -
SABESP - Aug. 1977.
10.   Published Financial Statements - SABESP - 1973-1976.
.11.  Annual Report - SABESP - 1976.
12.   Audited Financial Statements - BNH - 1972-1976.
13.   Pluriannual Budgets - BNH - 1975-1979.
14.   Summary Project Data - HIDROSERVICE - 1977.



