FNLE COPY                               Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2208-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
February 8, 1978
This document ba a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwinse be dislosed without World Bank authoriatlon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977    January 23, 1978
Currency Unit       -     Cruzeiro (Cr$)         Cr$
US$1                -     Cr$14.1               16.25
Cr$1                -     US$0.07                0.06
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNH         =  Banco Nacional da Habitacao
FAE         =  Fundo de Agua e Esgoto
SFS         =  Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento
PLANASA     =  Plano Nacional de Saneamento
SABESP      =  Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo
CETESB      =  Companhia de Tecnologia do Saneamento Ambiental
BANESPA     =  Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo, S.A.
FGTS        =  Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico
UPC         =  Unidade Padrao de Capital
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
The exchange rate used in the staff appraisal report
(US$1 = Cr$14.74) corresponds to the average exchange
rate for August 1977.



FOR OFFICIAL USL JNLY
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Banco Nacional da Habitacao - BNH
Guarantor:            Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiary:          Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo -
SABESP
Amount:               US$110 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at
7.45% per annum.
Relending             Repayment in 34 1/2 years, including 4 1/2 years of grace
Terms to           at 8Z per annum to reflect the long useful life of project
Beneficiary:       works.  Relending to be expressed in cruzeiros, with
principal to be adjusted periodically in accordance with
changes in the general price index.
Prol ect
Description:       The project would provide sewage collection services to
3.5 million people and sewage treatment facilities for
5.5 million people. 3It would also provide treatment
facilities for 6.1 m /sec of industrial wastes. It would
include: connection of 550,000 households to the sewerage
system; construction of 5,500 km of sewage collectors; 60
km of sewage interceptors; 10 sewage pumping stations; and
three secondary sewage treatment plants with an aggregate
initial capacity of 14.5 m /sec. The project would also
include 8,620 man-months of consultancy services for
preparation of final engineering and bidding documents;
supervision and administration of construction; start up
of operations of the treatment plants and pumping stations;
monitoring of industrial effluents; and personnel training.
About 40% of the beneficiaries would be low-income urban
dwellers. The project faces no special risks although
delays in the implementation could occur as a result of
its magnitude and technical complexity.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                            -    US$ millions------
Local  Foreign    Total    %
Treatment Plants                      124.1   101.0      225.1    18
Land Acquisition                       51.4       -       51.4      4
Pumping Stations                      32.8    19.8        52.6      4
Sewage Interceptors                   65.9    19.5        85.4      7
House Connections and Collectors   239.9    55.6         295.5    24
Engineering                           69.4    29.3        98.7      8
Physical Contingencies               106.5    44.9       151.4    12
Price Contingencies                  193.2    86.3       279.5    23
Total Project Cost              883.2   356.4   1,239.6   100
Financing Plan:
US$ millions
Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH)                    416.8
Sao Paulo Water and Sewerage Fund (FAE)              526.8
State of Sao Paulo                                   186.0
Proposed IBRD Loan                                   110.0
Total                                        1,239.6
Estimated
Disbursements:              -------------- US$ millions ---------------------
Bank FY 1979    1980       1981      1982     1983   1984
Annual           8.2      18.2     25.3      24.3      20.6   13.4
Cumulative       8.2      26.4     51.7      76.0      96.6  110.0
Rate of Return:      The most important project benefits are not meaningfully
quantifiable since they relate to improvements in labor
productivity, health and living conditions of the
population overall.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 1808-BR, dated February 6, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO-BNH
FOR A SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT IN SAO PAULO
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional da Habitacao-BNH with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$110 million to help finance a
sewage collection and treatment project in the Greater Sao Paulo metropolitan
area. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at 7.45% per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be relent to
the state water company of Sao Paulo, SABESP at 8% per annum (plus various
one-time fees amounting to about 3% of the loan amount) with principal subject
to monetary correction in accordance with changes in the general price index.
Relending would be for 34-1/2 years including a period of grace of 4-1/2
years. Principal payments due to the Bank but not yet collected from SABESP
would be met from the general resources of BNH.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (1665a-BR), dated
October 13, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 21,
1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I to this report.
3.        The late 1960s and early 1970s were years of remarkable economic
growth and development for Brazil. The 10% average annual rate of growth
in GDP during this period was accompanied by a strong balance-of-payments
performance. The dollar value of exports rose by 300% from 1967 to 1973 and a
process of export diversification significantly reduced Brazil's dependence
upon coffee as the single primary source of foreign exchange earnings. At the
same time, inflation was brought progressively under control. During the
early 1970s prices rose at less than 20% per annum on average -- a considerable
improvement upon the inflation of a decade earlier. The crawling peg exchange
rate combined with widespread monetary correction and indexation of financial
instruments helped to minimize the distortions which often accompany inflation
(although indexing makes it more difficult to reduce the level of inflation).
4.        The world economic crisis of 1974 marked a turning point in the
recent economic performance of Brazil. Although growth continued at 9.5% in
that year, it proved impossible to maintain the good balance-of-payments
performance that had accompanied growth in previous years. The continuation
of expansionary policies during 1974 in the context of a sharp deterioration
in the terms of trade resulted in a trade deficit amounting to US$4.7 billion.
The elimination of that deficit has been a major objective of economic policy
since that time. To this end the Government fortified simultaneously its
policies of export promotion and of import substitution. As a result of these
policies, the trade gap closed progressively year by year. In 1977 excep-
tionally high coffee prices contributed towards a strong increase of export



-2 -
revenues and the trade gap was eliminated entirely in that year. It is pro-
jected that the trade gap will remain closed even though coffee prices have
already rolled back significantly from the high levels prevailing in early
1977. This expectation is predicated on a major effort to expand other
exports, particularly of manufactured goods.
5.        Inflation is another problem that has become a focus of attention
in recent years. Sharp rises in the prices of petroleum and other imported
goods in 1974 gave an added impetus to inflationary pressures which were
already building up in the Brazilian economy even prior to the world economic
crisis. Inflation increased in 1974 and continued to accelerate in the sub-
sequent two years reaching a peak of 46% in 1976. The Government has employed
a wide range of monetary and fiscal instruments to combat inflation. Partic-
ularly significant is the much greater control now exercised by the Federal
Government over the investment programs of public sector decentralized agencies.
There is evidence that these policies are having effect. Inflation for 1977
was some 39%, and in the second half of 1977 inflation slowed to a rate of
some 30% on an annual basis. If the Government continues to exercise careful
control over monetary and fiscal policy, further headway against inflation
is likely.
6.        Brazil's economic performance since 1974 has been deeply affected
by balance-of-payments constraints. Growth fluctuated sharply from 4.2% in
1975 to 8.7% in 1976 and down again to 6% in 1977 as the Government searched
for an appropriate balance between expansion on the one hand and, on the other
hand, the need to resolve difficulties in the balance of payments and in the
domestic inflationary situation. The Government recognizes the need for con-
tinued moderation in growth during the next two or three years if inflation
is to be kept under control, the balance of payments is to be further improved
and a sound basis for longer term development is to be preserved. It is
projected that growth may average little more than 6% during the remaining
years of the decade. Beyond that, however, there is every indication that
Brazil has the potential to sustain higher levels of growth provided (a) that
reasonable expansion of output and trade takes place in the industrial coun-
tries, and (b) that sound economic policies are consistently pursued in Brazil.
In this respect the Government's development strategy provides a sound frame-
work for future development.
7.        The second National Development Plan (1975-79) was published in the
wake of the world petroleum crisis and incorporates a sectoral development
strategy which focuses sharply upon relieving Brazil's balance-of-payments
constraints in the longer term. The export potential of agriculture received
explicit recognition in the development plan and the results achieved over
the past several years (particularly in soya production) justify the priority
given to this sector. Agriculture constitutes a vehicle for raising the
living standards of the rural poor and for developing the vast frontier lands
of Brazil's interior. In the case of industry, sophisticated incentive schemes
have been introduced to encourage exports. However, Brazil's industrial devel-
opment strategy now concentrates upon import-substitution programs in steel,
non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, fertilizers and capital goods. Brazil
aims at self-sufficiency in many of these products by the early 1980s. Beyond
that point these same industries may develop a good export potential.



8.        Despite its impressive growth performance and vast future potential,
Brazil is still a country with extensive poverty. The present Government
acknowledges the country's poverty problem and accepts responsibility for its
alleviation. While, like the previous Government, it believes that a high
rate of growth is necessary to increase the incomes of the poor, it does not
believe that the "trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and has
formulated a new policy which could be labeled as "redistribution with growth."
To implement this policy, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs
initiated by its predecessor, the Government is taking new measures in three
broad areas: (a) regional development; (b) provision of social services; and
(c) wage policy. In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a
favorable, albeit marginal, impact on income distribution.
9.        As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program which covers the 1975-79 period is
designed to raise the productivity and incomes of small farmers through inter
alia, formulation and execution of integrated rural development projects,
which in some cases include changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based
on the assumption that the rural Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous
whole. Therefore, the Government has identified 31 sub-regions covering large
portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used initially.
The Bank has made loans for integrated rural development in two of these sub-
regions,' and various others are in preparation.
10.       In the area of social services, the Government has created a new
Ministry of Social Security in order to consolidate its social benefit programs
and to extend these programs to a larger share of the population. The
Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which, under the
previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is being given
by the National Housing Bank to low-income housing, the beneficiaries of which
will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. The Housing Bank is also
developing a site and services program to encourage construction of self-help
housing by families that cannot afford builder-constructed units. In agri-
culture, the recently reorganized rural extension agency will expand and
strengthen its activities directed specifically toward the small-scale farmer;
and the new federal agriculture research institution is defining its program
to include a selection of crops and farming systems which will ensure that
small-scale farms benefit from research efforts. In November 1974, the
Government revised the formula governing the adjustment of the union wage
scale and real minimum wage was increased in 1975 and again in 1976. While
in 1977 the Government restricted wage increases as part of a policy package
designed to control overall demand and to combat inflation, this does not
signify any basic change in its longer term goal of improving income distri-
bution.
11.       In order to achieve the twin goals of high growth and an improved
distribution of income, Brazil will continue to require large inflows of
capital in the medium-term future. These inflows should be less than in the
recent past, however.  Compared with a US$6 billion annual average for 1974-76,



- 4 -
it is estimated that the annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital
(that is, direct foreign investment and net disbursements from official and
private sources) may be in the order of US$4.5 billion for 1977-80. This
projection assumes that it will be possible to sustain and subsequently
improve upon the trade balance achieved in 1977, with export volume rising
at an average rate of 11.5% annually in 1977-80, and import growth held down
to only 2.8% a year in real terms during this period. The outlook for
Brazil's principal export commodities is quite favorable for the next several
years, and it is expected that the good overall export performance projected
here can be achieved, provided that the country continues to follow present
exchange rate policies to ensure the competitiveness of manufactured exports.
On the import side, several major import-substitution programs are already
having a notable impact. The further development of these programs should
enable Brazil to continue to restrain imports without jeopardizing growth.
12.       On December 31, 1977, Brazil's estimated public external debt
amounted to about US$16.6 billion and the public debt service ratio for 1977
is estimated at some 19%. This is somewhat higher than the 15% average public
debt service ratio estimated for the first half of the 1970s and reflects a
higher proportion of medium-term financial credits within the overall debt
structure. Total external debt (both public and private) registered by the
Central Bank at end-1977 is estimated at US$29.5 billion and somewhat over
two-thirds of this debt (some US$20 billion) is in the form of financial
credits. The net debt service ratio on total external debt during 1977 was
about 41% compared with an average of 38% during the early 1970s. However,
net foreign exchange reserves at the end of 1977 were about US$7.0 billion,
equivalent to some six months' imports of goods and non-factor services and
sufficient to cover nearly one quarter of the total outstanding external debt.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden the substantial level of foreign
exchange reserves ensure that the country will have the liquidity to meet its
debt service obligations in the short term. The breakdown between public and
private debt in the longer run can be projected only tentatively. Much will
depend upon the extent to which the Government will extend its guarantee to
loans contracted externally by non-government entities. Even assuming that
a government guarantee will be granted in an increasing number of cases, it
is projected tentatively that the public debt service ratio will peak in the
late 1970s at about 20%. Subsequently, a fall to about 16% by 1985 is
projected, assuming that Brazil can increase the value of its exports by an
average of 17% per annum and that the average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years. The country's record of
financial and economic management provides grounds for confidence in the
maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run. Nevertheless, there can
be no doubt that very careful management of the external accounts will continue
to be necessary.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
13.       By December 31, 1977 the Bank had approved 74 loans for Brazil, amount-
ing to US$3,199.4 million, of which 38 were not yet fully disbursed. During



- 5 -
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to
an average of US$136 million per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 million
in FY74, US$248 million in FY75 and US$202 million in FY76. In FY77 US$267
million was disbursed. The decline in disbursements in FY76 was due primarily
to the reduced level of lending in FY73-74. Disbursements are expected to
increase during the next few years. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans as of December 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
14.       Since FY75, Bank lending to Brazil has amounted to between US$400
and US$500 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling US$426.5
million; and in FY76 ten loans totalling US$498 million. In FY77, seven loans
totalling US$425 million were approved: US$40 million for a second water
supply and sewerage project in Minas Gerais, US$83 million for a second agro-
industries credit project, US$82 million for a power transmission project
in the South, US$42 million for an integrated rural development project in
Minas Gerais, US$64 million for a nitrogen fertilizer project, US$82 million
for a phosphate fertilizer project, and US$32 million for a vocational training
project. So far in FY78, one loan of US$17 million for a rural development
project in the state of Ceara has been approved. Work is relatively advanced
on the preparation of an agricultural extension project; two more rural
development projects in the Northeast; a power distribution project in the
South and Southeast; a highways maintenance and rehabilitation project; an
aluminum project; a petrochemicals project and an urban transport project.
15.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1977, amounting to nearly US$16.6 billion, the Bank held about 8.5%.
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present
trends continue as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt
outstanding would increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt
service would rise in 1980 to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total
(public and private) external debt service would remain at the present level
of 2.8%.
16.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of December 31, 1977, IFC had made commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$332 million, of which US$203 million had been cancelled, repaid
or sold. Of the balance of US$129 million, US$102 million represent loans and
US$27 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments up to December 31, 1977
is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
17.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. An important lending objective in Brazil is to help to
intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and incomes of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. The proposed Sao Paulo sewage collection and



- 6 -
treatment proiect is addressed to this objective. It would expand elementary
sanitation services to the low-income population and improve the environmental
conditions especially in areas where the urban poor live. Also, the executing
agency has adopted a progressive tariff structure that would permit the large
low-income population of Sao Paulo to afford sewage collection and treatment
services through cross-subsidization from higher income and industrial con-
sumers. The recently approved loans for the nutrition research and development,
vocational training, agricultural research and Lower Sao Francisco polders
projects, and for the integrated rural development projects in the states of
Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais and Ceara were all designed to assist
low-income groups. Additional projects to reach low-income groups in urban
areas are in preparation, including a sites and services project, sewerage and
water supply projects in several northeastern states, a medium-sized cities
development project, and an urban transport project. Additional integrated
rural development projects directed at low-income farmers are also in prepar-
ation.
18.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform designed to develop rational policies and pro-
cedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and help maximize public
savings and ensure that they are used economically. The institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance for vocational training, and
for the transportation sector where emphasis has been given to the rational
selection of investments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the
improvement of the railways' financial performance. Loans for electric power,
industrial finance, highways, agricultural research and extension, and urban
development also have important institution-building objectives. Under the
proposed project the Bank would continue its policy dialogue with the Borrower
and the Government on the development of the water supply and sewerage sector,
giving special emphasis to sector tariffs and organization.
19.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Bank support of fertilizer projects is assisting Brazil to substitute imports
with large-scale efficient domestic production and aid its balance-of-payments
position. Bank lending for agro-industries in the Center and South of Brazil
is also supporting this objective and much of the Bank-assisted investment in
the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facil-
itate the smooth and economical flow of exports. Support of the steel expan-
sion program is helping Brazil to expand domestic output of a traditional
import commodity which can be produced efficiently in Brazil due to the
country's ample supply of high-grade iron ore and the scale of its internal
markets. A similar objective would be achieved through the petrochemical
and aluminum projects now being prepared.



- 7 -
20.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued active lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded
by the international financial community as an important sign of confidence
in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there. In some
sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation is
helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on more
favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institu-
tions. Five co-financing operations totalling US$204 million have been
concluded since 1976 with private financial institutions and several others
are in preparation.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
Introduction
21.       The proposed loan to BNH would be the Bank's fifth for the develop-
ment of the water supply and sewerage sector in Brazil and the third to BNH.
The first two loans, for US$22 million and US$15 million (loans 757-BR and
758-BR) were made in 1971 to help develop the water supply and sewerage systems
of the greater Sao Paulo area. These two loans were assumed by SABESP in 1974
after it had taken over the functions of the two companies that were the
original borrowers. The objective of Loan 757-BR to help extend water supply
services to 2.0 million people in the Municipality of Sao Paulo, was exceeded.
By 1977, water services had been extended to 3.5 million people. The project
financed under Loan 758-BR suffered initial delays resulting mainly from
problems in the management of the original borrower, SANESP. SABESP brought
the sewerage works included under the project to a successful completion. The
third and fourth loans, for US$36 and US$40 million, respectively, were made
in 1974 and 1976 to BNH for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of
Minas Gerais. The first one of these two loans is now fully committed and the
second one is expected to be fully committed soon. Sub-projects under these
loans are being carried out in a satisfactory manner.
Sector Organization
22.       Municipalities have traditionally had responsibility for the provision
of water supply and sewerage services in Brazil. During the sixties, the
acceleration of the urbanization process coupled with the financial, technical
and managerial inability of the municipalities to provide even minimum services
prompted the federal and state governments to build and finance new water and
sewerage systems with budget grants to satisfy the most urgent needs. In this
way, some US$700 million were invested in urban and rural sanitation between
1960 and 1970. However, in 1970, the situation was far from satisfactory and
rapidly deteriorating. Less than 60% of the urban population had public water
services and less than 30% sewage collection services. Final sewage disposal
was inadequate and treatment was virtually nil. These facts, together with



- 8 -
the manifest administrative and financial weakness of municipal governments
and rapid urbanization made apparent to the Federal Government the need to
establish a nation-wide program to finance, promote and coordinate the devel-
opment of the water supply and sewerage sector.
23.       In 1971, the Government launched the Plano Nacional de Saneamento -
PLANASA (National Sanitation Plan) under the aegis of the Banco Nacional de
Habitacao - BNH (National Housing Bank) to increase the availability of water
and sewerage services to the urban population. The initial goals of the
program were to provide water services to 80% and sewerage services to 50% of
the urban population by 1980. These goals were revised in 1975 to establish
more realistic targets for the large cities and include the smaller communi-
ties under the program. The present goals of the program are to provide
water services to 80% of the urban population in 80% of the urban communities
(including Brazil's nine metropolitan areas), extensive sewerage services to
all of the state capitals and main urban centers, and some sewerage services
to smaller urban communities by 1980. Over the 1971-83 period, the Government
plans to invest US$6.6 billion in the program. So far, about US$2.5 billion
has been invested.
24.       The PLANASA program is financed one-half by BNH and one-half by
the states through revolving water and sewerage funds (Fundos de Agua e
Esgotos - FAE). BNH loans bear interest rates varying from 2% in the poorest
states in the Northeast to 7% in the relatively more prosperous states of
the South and Center of Brazil. Principal and interest are adjusted in
accordance with changes in the general price index. FAE resources are obtained
from allocations of up to 5% of the states' annual revenues. In those cases
where 5% of a state's revenues are not sufficient to meet the state's 50%
financing commitment to the program, BNH extends supplementary loans to the
state to cover for this shortfall. The states lend FAE resources to their
sanitation companies on somewhat softer terms than those applicable to BNH
loans, but in all cases their loans are subject to monetary correction. The
goal of PLANASA is to obtain full-cost recovery from the operation of the
investments made under the program.
25.       The organization of the PLANASA program is focused on the state.
To enter the program, a state must sign an agreement with BNH establishing
a statewide water and sewerage company, draw up a statewide sector invest-
ment plan and provide for state guarantee of BNH loans. The statewide organi-
zation of the program has two major advantages. First, it makes possible the
establishment of statewide tariff levels which permit a cross-subsidization
mechanism to be operated within the state. In this way, wealthier cities
contribute to support poorer and smaller communities. Second, the statewide
organization derives economies of scale from centralized management of the
water supply and sewerage system, thus ensuring a more efficient use of avail-
able human resources, which are particularly scarce in the sector.
26.       As part of the PLANASA program, BNH has organized a national sanita-
tion training program to improve the qualifications of both professional and
non-professional staff working in the sector. BNH's target is to train about
80,000 people over a six-year period ending in 1980. As of now, more than



- 9 -
40,000 people have received training under the program. Also within PLANASA,
BNH aspires to develop national design and engineering standards for sani-
tation projects. This undertaking is also progressing satisfactorily.
27.       In addition to the PLANASA program, there are several other federal
and state programs to meet the sanitation needs of small rural communities.
Among those, the most important is the Fundacao Servico Especial de Saude
Publica (Public Health Foundation) sponsored by the Ministry of Health.
Through this program the Government gives grants to the poorest rural municipal-
ities for their sanitation projects. Recently, BNH has also started a special
program to assist rural communities.
The Development of the PLANASA Program
28.       The PLANASA program is progressing well.  All of the 23 states of
Brazil have entered the progam and more than 2,000 municipalities all over the
country have already benefitted from it. Six million households comprising
about 25 million people have been connected to public water supply systems.
As a result, about 75% of the urban population is now receiving water supply
services as compared with less than 60% of a smaller urban population when the
Government started the program in 1971. By the end of the decade, Brazil
should be able to meet the targets set for the provision of water supply
services to its urban population. The levels of service attained and projected
for the provision of sewerage services present a different picture. At present,
only 35% of the population receives sewerage services as compared with 30% at
the time the program was started. There are two reasons for the slower pace
of the sewerage program: one is the higher cost of providing sewage collection
and treatment services and the other is the technical complexity of building
and operating adequate sewage treatment and disposal facilities for the protec-
tion of the receiving waters. It is likely to be well into the eighties
before the major cities of Brazil can receive sewerage services at the levels
envisaged by PLANASA.
Environmental Protection
29.       There is a growing awareness in Brazil of the need to protect
coastal and inland water resources. In 1973, the federal government created
the Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente - SEMA (Environmental Protection
Secretariat) within the Ministry of the Interior to monitor changes in the
environment, establish air and water quality standards, enforce pollution
control legislation and coordinate all federal pollution control programs.
In January 1976, the government enacted legislation classifying inland water
resources and setting maximum physical, chemical and biological contamination
levels. To comply with this legislation, large investments in sewage treatment
facilities, particularly in inland cities, will be needed. To protect its
water resources, in 1976 the Sao Paulo state government passed a law specifying
maximum levels of contamination allowed in Sao Paulo water bodies. The proposed
project would allow the beneficiary, SABESP, to progressively comply with this
law. In addition, the state government has requested Bank assistance to help
local industries to finance pollution control equipment to treat both liquid



- 10 -
and gaseous discharges. As part of this industrial pollution control project,
which is under preparation, industries would be assisted to build pre-treatment
plants and other facilities required for the discharge of their liquid effluents
into the general sewerage system (see para. 58).
Legal Framework
30.       In 1975, BNH hired consultants to prepare a national law for the
sector. These consultants were requested to study the various aspects of the
tariff question, the ownership of water resources, and the legal responsibili-
ties for the provision of water and sewerage services. As a result of this
initiative, the federal government is actively considering new legislation
which would define the institutional responsibilities for the provision of
water supply and sewerage services and establish a tariff system that would
assure the financial viability of the sanitation companies without overburden-
ing the consumer.
The Greater Sao Paulo Area
31.       Greater Sao Paulo is the largest urban center in Brazil as well
water supply and sewerage as its most industrialized area. Currently, it has
about 10.6 million inhabitants, or almost 10% of the Brazilian population.
While over the past twenty-five years Brazil has been undergoing a trans-
formation from a largely rural-agrarian to an urban-industrial nation, this
process has been felt most intensively in Sao Paulo. The population of the
metropolitan area increased at 8.7% per year during the sixties, with internal
migration accounting for 69% of this growth. Based on 1975 estimates, it is
expected that the area's population will grow at 5% per year until the end of
the decade, at 3.2% during the eighties and at 2.6% during the nineties.
These rates of growth are based on the widely accepted assumption that internal
migration to Sao Paulo will progressively decline because of the development
of industrial growth poles in other areas of the country and the saturation
level reached by the density of the population within the city. The Greater
Sao Paulo area's estimated population up to the end of the century is as
follows:
1975     1977      1980     1985      1990      2000
Total Population
(in millions)             9.6      10.6     12.3      14.3      16.7     21.6
32.       The Greater Sao Paulo area has about 40% of Brazil's
industrial capacity and the average per capita income is higher than the
national average. This situation, however, obscures the extensive poverty
in the metropolitan area. Moreover, even though Sao Paulo is the most
industrialized area of Brazil, there are several factors which make public
savings available for investment in the area insufficient. First, the
Brazilian fiscal system is geared to siphon out of Sao Paulo resources
for the poorer regions of the country. Nearly 50% of federal tax revenues



- 11 -
are generated in the State of Sao Paulo, but the state and municipal autho-
rities in the state receive only 3% of those federal tax revenues through the
various revenue-sharing funds, and are totally excluded from most special
federal expenditure programs designed for the less developed regions of the
country. It should be noted that the total tax burden in Sao Paulo (federal,
state and municipal taxes) as a percent of the state's regional product is
quite high, over 30%. The structure of the fiscal system and the high rate of
population growth mentioned in para. 31 have put tremendous pressure on the
state's financial resources, and investment in infrastructure has fallen
behind.
33.       During the seventies, Sao Paulo has made an intensive effort to
extend water supply services to its population. However, the provision of
sewage collection and treatment services has lagged. By the end of 1977,
85% of Greater Sao Paulo's population was receiving adequate water supply
services and it is expected that 90% of the population will be served by the
end of 1978. However, the percentage of people receiving sewage collection
services in the area is today almost the same as in 1950. At that time, 933
km of sewage collectors served about 700,000 people or 32% of the population.
In 1977, 5,000 km of collectors served 4,000,000 people or 38% of the popula-
tion. The population without sewerage service has increased from 1.5 million
in 1950 to 6.5 million in 1977. Out of the total sewage produced only 4%
receives treatment. The remaining 96% is discharged, untreated, into the
rivers and water bodies as well as into the open storm water canals of the
area. Moreover, industrial effluents are discharged, also untreated, into
the water courses. As a result, the rivers of the Greater Sao Paulo area are
now composed of 25% of sewage and 75% of water and, if nothing were done, in
the next ten years this proportion would be reversed.
34.       The contamination of the underground and surface waters poses
serious health problems to the population of Greater Sao Paulo and results
in heavy costs to the Brazilian economy. It is generally accepted that the
high rate of infant mortality (78.5 per thousand in 1976 as compared to less
than 20 per thousand in the more developed countries) and the appearance of
meninigitis in the area, are closely related to the contamination of the
underground and surface waters. The segments of the population most affected
by the contamination of the waters are the low-income groups which live in
areas without water supply and sewerage services and alongside the polluted
water courses.
35.       The future sanitation needs of the Greater Sao Paulo area are very
great. The expected demand for water supply and sewerage treatment services
is as follows:



- 12 -
3
(m /sec)
1975       1980        1985          2000
Water                    24.6        35.9        46.7          95.0
Sewage                   21.0        26.0        42.0          94.0
Water courses             100         150         188           313
pollution index /1
(without project)
/I  Measured as the concentration of degradable organic matter
in water courses.
To cope with the demand for water, SABESP plans to import water in increasing
volumes from other water basins.  Presently, SABESP imports 6.5 m /sec from a
neighboring water basin.
37.       Inter-basin water transfers give rise to special technical,
economical, and financial problems. To import water from other basins,
SABESP will have to carry out large capital investments which will primarily
benefit SABESP's water consumers; however, they will also benefit the hydro-
electric plants located down-stream of Greater Sao Paulo. The benefits that
will accrue to the power plants have not yet quantified but it is generally
accepted that if an adequate compensation system is established, they could
result in a substantial contribution to SABESP's cash flow over the next
years. To deal with this question, among others, the federal and the state
governments in 1976 set up a commission to plan and coordinate the multi-
purpose uses of water resources in Greater Sao Paulo. The Government intends
to carry out through this commission studies on the technical, economic and
financial aspects of the multipurpose use of water resources in Greater Sao
Paulo and will furnish the Bank with the results of these studies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report of the Greater Sao Paulo
Sewage Collection and Treatment Project" (No. 1808-BR, dated February 6, 1978)
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The project
was prepared by the beneficiary, SABESP, with the assistance of consultants.
It was appraised by a mission which visited Brazil in December 1976. Supple-
mentary appraisal work, after the Government firmed up a financing plan and
an implementation schedule for the project, was performed in September 1977.
Negotiations with BNH, SABESP, the Guarantor and the State of Sao Paulo
were held in Washington from January 24 to 27, 1978. The Borrower, BNH, was
represented by Mr. Fabio Alvares.



- 13 -
The Borrower
38.       The Borrower, Banco Nacional de Habitacao (BNH), was established in
1964 as a financially and administratively autonomous institution. Since
1967, it has been under the overall responsibility of the Minister of the
Interior. BNH's main activities are to finance, through intermediary insti-
tutions, low- and medium-income housing, urban development and sanitation
programs. A Board of Directors and an Executive Committee administer the
institution. BNH has eleven regional agencies to coordinate its activities at
the state level. BNH's principal resource is the deposit of the Fundo de
Garantia de Tempo de Servico - FGTS, a national retirement fund. The FGTS is
constituted by an 8% of payroll contribution on the wages of all non-government
employees paid by employers. BNH's sources of funds also include interest and
principal repayments on outstanding loans as well as interest and monetary
correction on surplus funds invested in national treasury bonds. Net receipts
of the FGTS increased from US$424.4 million equivalent in 1971 to US$1,199.6
million in 1976. Receipts of interest and principal repayments increased from
US$279.3 million to US$765.0 million equivalent over the same period. In
1976, BNH's resources totalled US$2.6 billion and for 1977 the estimate is
US$2.9 billion equivalent. In summary, BNH enjoys a very strong financial
position which it is expected to maintain.
39.       Within BNH, the Superintendencia do Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento -
S/SFS (Sanitation Financial System Department) is responsible for the PLANASA
program. The administrative capacity of S/SFS was severely taxed as the
PLANASA program moved into full operation. In early 1976, BNH decentralized
the administration of the program by giving more responsibility to the regional
offices. During the implementation of the two projects in Minas Gerais the
Bank has maintained a continuous dialogue with the S/SFS on the evolution of
the program. During the implementation of the proposed project, the Bank
would continue exchanging views with BNH on the management and regulations of
the PLANASA program (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). To provide
the S/SFS with adequate support, BNH has contracted a technical agent for each
state to supervise and monitor the design and construction of the projects
under the PLANASA program. In Sao Paulo, the technical agent is the Companhia
de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental - CETESB (Sao Paulo State Environmental
Control Agency). CETESB has a highly qualified staff and should be able to
perform its role appropriately in connection with the proposed project.
40.       BNH would make a US$526.8 million equivalent loan for the project,
part of which would be financed with the proposed US$110 million Bank loan.
BNH would make its loan to the Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo S.A. - BANESPA,
the financial agent for PLANASA in the State of Sao Paulo. BANESPA would
onlend BNH's funds together with funds in equal amounts borrowed from the
state FAE, to the beneficiary, SABESP. BNH's loan to BANESPA would be at
7% per annum with monetary correction and would have an amortization period of
30 years after a grace period of 4-1/2 years. BANESPA would relend this loan
to SABESP at 8%. Otherwise the same conditions would apply. In addition,
various one-time fees and levies equal to 3.2% of BNH's loan would be charged



- 14 -
to SABESP. BNH's relatively long grace and amortization periods are justified
by the long useful life of the works included under the project.
41.       Because of the longer maturity of BNH's loan, amortization payments
on the Bank loan would exceed repayments to BNH by SABESP. However, BNH's
financial position is expected to be strong enough to absorb this shortfall
without difficulty. Although BNH would charge a slightly lower interest rate
to BANESPA than it would be paying to the Bank, BNH interest receipts would
exceed its payments because of the longer amortization period of its loan to
BANESPA. In the unlikely event that there were a shortfall, the federal
government would make up the difference.
The Beneficiary
42.       The Beneficiary, Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao
Paulo - SABESP (Sao Paulo Sanitation Company) was created in December 1973 by
the merger of several water supply and sewerage companies serving the Greater
Sao Paulo area. SABESP is responsible for carrying out the PLANASA program in
the State of Sao Paulo. At present, four years after its creation, SABESP
serves twelve million people, or 60% of the state's urban population. SABESP
is the largest sanitation company and the fourth largest public company in
Brazil.
43.       SABESP is administered by a Board of Directors and an Administrative
Council whose members are appointed by the State Governor for four-year terms.
SABESP's president, who is a member of the board, is the chief executive
officer of the company. During its first years, SABESP experienced management
problems mainly as a consequence of the merging process. The highly qualified
top management brought in in 1975 has been able to introduce modern management
techniques for operational and financial planning and control. SABESP's staff,
12,500 employees, is adequate in numbers. SABESP has an extensive training
program reaching all company levels and is adequately strengthening the
quality of its staff. Under the project, SABESP would carry out a program of
technical assistance to and training of its staff on the operation and mainte-
nance of sewage collection and treatment systems, monitoring and control of
industrial wastes, control of unaccounted water, sewage collection and treat-
ment tariffs and multipurpose use of water resources (Section 4.04 of the
Loan Agreement). SABESP's planning and construction departments, which will
participate in the implementation of the project, are well staffed and organi-
zed and have demonstrated their efficiency in the planning and execution of
the company's enormous water supply program.
44.       During its formative years, up to 1976, SABESP experienced positive,
even though low, rates of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation.
SABESP's returns over the 1974-77 period were 1.2%; 1.8%; 1.6%; and 6.0% as
compared to 1.0%; 4.0%; 6.0% and 6.0%, as called for in the Loan Assumption
Agreement for loans 757-BR and 758-BR. Various factors have accounted for
SABESP's low financial returns: inadequate tariffs; poor planning and control
systems; an excessive number of employees; and a high level of water losses.



- 15 -
45.       The management team appointed in 1975 undertook various measures
which have resulted in a marked improvement in the company's financial results.
To reduce costs, it introduced cost and budgetary planning and control systems,
and trimmed down the number of personnel and overhead expenditures. To
increase revenues, it gave priority to a massive program to connect new
consumers to the water supply system in the Greater Sao Paulo area and to
bring water supply and sewage collection tariffs in line with the cost of
supplying the services. Since its creation in 1973, SABESP's tariffs have been
increased by 190% in nominal terms which corresponds to the increase in the
cost of living in the Greater Sao Paulo area. Most of this increase took
place during the latter part of 1976 and 1977, and reflects the Government's
decision to provide SABESP with the financial resources needed to carry out
its ambitious investment program. SABESP's tariff structure has also progres-
sively improved. The current structure provides for cross-subsidization
between low-volume consumers and industrial and high-volume residential
consumers. There are, however, certain tariff areas which require further
improvement (see para. 46).
46.       SABESP's financial projections over the project period are reason-
able and indicate an acceptable financial outlook. To assure the continuation
of its expansion program and the carrying out of its responsibilities on a
sound financial basis, SABESP would take all steps necessary to obtain in each
fiscal year revenues at least equal to its operating expenses, debt service
and a percentage of the average value of its net fixed assets. This percentage
would be no less than 0.5% in 1978 and 1979; 1.5% in 1980 and 1981; 2.5% in
1982 and 3.5% in 1983 and thereafter (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
It is estimated that this level of revenues would allow SABESP to earn the
following annual rates of return on revalued net fixed assets in operation:
6% in 1978; 7% in 1979; 8% in 1980; and 9% thereafter. The Government would
take all action necessary to enable SABESP to perform this obligation (Section
3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). SABESP would also price bulk water
sales to municipal water supply systems so as to at least cover full cost and
a return on the related investments of 6% per annum in 1978, 8% in 1979, and
10% in 1980 and thereafter; study the feasibility of increasing the number of
industrial customers connected to its water supply system as additional capac-
ity becomes available; and prepare and carry out a program to reduce progress-
ively its unaccounted water from 32% in 1978 to 20% by December 31, 1983 and
thereafter (Sections 4.12, 4.13 and 4.14 of the draft Loan Agreement). In
addition, SABESP would carry out a study, in consultation with the Bank, to
identify the most appropriate structure and level of sewage collection and
treatment tariffs in Greater Sao Paulo and to modity its tariffs in the light
of recommendations of this study (Section 4.16 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The structure of the sewage treatment tariff would provide for a substantial
cross-subsidization from industrial to residential consumers and on the
average reflect long-term marginal costs. It is expected that these actions
would permit SABESP to attain, without major tariff increases in real terms,
the required level of revenues. On its side, BNH would agree to prepare and
furnish to the Bank a proposal for a national tariff system for sewage collec-
tion and treatment services based on the recommendations of SABESP's study and
the study undertaken by COPASA in connection with the Second Minas Gerais
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan 1309-BR) (Section 5.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Project Concept
47.        Since the early fifties the contamination of water has been a
basic health and environmental concern to the Greater Sao Paulo area. In
response to this concern, over the last 25 years, four tentative water pollu-
tion control master plans were developed. In 1975, SABESP requested a consor-
tium of Brazilian and American consulting firms to prepare a final master
plan. The consultants reviewed all past studies and submitted three alterna-
tive plans to SABESP with substantially similar rates of return. The proposed
project includes the first phase of the plan selected by SABESP and approved
by the state and federal governments which offers the most favorable technical
and environmental conditions. The project would provide sewage collection
services to 3.5 million people and sewage treatment facilities for 5.5 million
people.  It would also provide treatment facilities for 6.1 m /sec of indus-
trial wastes. The proportion of the population receiving sewage collection
services would increase from 38% in 1977 to 55% in 1983 and sewage treatment
services (excluding industrial wastes) from 4.8% in 1977 to 40% in 1983.
48.        The project would consist of the connection of 550,000 households
to the sewerage system; construction of 5,500 km of sewage collectors of
various diameters; construction of 60 km of sewage interceptors of diameters
larger than 1.2 m; construction of 10 sewage pumping stations of various
capacities; construction of 3 major secondary sewage treatment plants using
the activated sludge process with the following initial capacities: Suzano:
1.5 m3/sec; ABC: 6.0 m 3/sec; and Barueri: 7.0 m 3/sec; construction of two
minor secondary treatment plants with an aggregate capacity of 0.3 m 3/sec.
Because of its size and comiplexity, the project would require 8,620 man-months
of consultancy services at an average cost of US$5,800 per man-month for the
preparation of the final engineering and bidding documents; supervision and
administration of construction; start-up of operations of treatment plants and
pumping stations; and personnel training. It would also include consultancy
services to monitor industrial effluents.
Cost Estimate and Financing Plan
49.        The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$1,240 million
equivalent, with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$356.4 millioni
equivalent. The estimated foreign cost assumes that Brazilian suppliers would
be awarded up to 50% of the value of the contracts to be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding. The cost estimate includes physical contingen-
cies of 20% which is acceptable in view of the fact that it is based on pre-
liminary designs and the technical difficulties involved in laying sewage
collectors and interceptors throughout a large city. Price contingencies, in
US dollar terms, have been added as follows: for civil works: 9% p.a. in 1978
and 1979, and 8% p.a. thereafter; for equipment: 7.5% p.a. in 1978 and 1979,
and 7% p.a. thereafter.
50.        The financial plan for the project consists of a US$526.8 million
equivalent loan from BNH which would include the proposed US$110.0 million
Bank loan and a US$526.8 million equivalent loan from FAE (see para. 40). In
addition the state of Sao Paulo would make a US$186.0 million equivalent
capital contribution to SABESP for the project. The proposed Bank loan would
cover about 8.9% of the total cost of the project or about 30.9% of its foreign
exchange component.



- 17 -
51.       The financing of the project can be best viewed in the context of
SABESP's capital investment program and financing plan during the project
period (1978-1983).  These are shown on the basis of July 1977 prices since
price escalation allowances have been determined only for works included
in the project. They can be summarized as follows:
1977-83
Capital Investment Program /1                          --(US$ Million)--  % of Total
Construction Expenditures:
Sewerage
Greater Sao Paulo area (proposed project)          960                   26
Other cities in the state                          560                   16
Total sewerage                                        1,520        42
Water Supply
Greater Sao Paulo area                             710                   20
Other cities in the state                          512                   14
Total water supply                                    1,222        34
Other expenditures                                                 366        10
Interest during construction                                       406        11
Increase in working capital                                         83         3
Total capital investment                              3,599       100
Financing Plan /1
Net internal cash generation                                       465        13
State capital contributions                                        173         5
Borrowings:
BNH loan for proposed project /2                      490                   14
Other BNH loans                                     1,015                   27
FAE loan for proposed project                         490                   14
Other FAE loans                                       966                   27
Total borrowings                                      2,961        82
Total financing                                       3,599       100
/1   In constant July 1977 prices.
/2   Partially financed by the proposed Bank loan.



- 18 -
52.       u;n the average, 82% of the capital investment during the period
would be covered by loans from BNH and FAE. The state would finance 5% of
SABESP's 1977-83 total investment program or about 15% of the cost of proposed
project  -ncluding interest during construction, as a capital contribution.
As noted, the capital investment program and financing plan shown in para. 51
do not include an allowance for price contingencies. Funds for these contin-
gencies would come principally from the provision for price contingencies in
the proposed loans from the Bank, BNH and FAE. The State and Federal Govern-
ments would agree to provide for any additional financing that could be
needed to complete the proposed project (Sections 2.02 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement and 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Engineering and Project Execution
53.       The engineering for the project would be carried out with the assis-
tance of consultants. SABESP would also hire consultancy services for prepara-
tion of bidding documents, supervision and administration of construction,
start-up of operations of treatment plants and pumping stations, and personnel
training. SABESP has organized a special unit to coordinate the execution
of the massive amount of construction works under the project. The Government
of the State of Sao Paulo would cause to be appointed representatives from
other agencies to coordinate with the project unit the execution of the
proposed project as appropriate (Section 6.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Equipment, instrumentation and supplies to be financed by the Bank
would be procured under international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Manufacturers whose bids contained components manufac-
tured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the bid would be given a
margin of preference equal to 15% or the applicable import duty, whichever is
less. Brazilian suppliers of the items included in the project are competitive
and, as indicated in para. 49 above, are expected to win up to 50% of the value
of the goods procured through international competitive bidding. The contracts
for civil works, not financed under the proposed loan, would be awarded under
locally advertised competitive bidding in accordance with SABESP's normal
procedures which are satisfactory. The participation of foreign firms would
not be precluded.
55.       Disbursements from the Bank loan would be made against appropriate
documentation for 100% of foreign expenditures for imported goods or 100%
of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods and for 100% of the
cost of the foreign expenditures for consultancy services.
Project Benefits and Risks
56.       The project would fulfill two major objectives.  First, it would
increase the share of the population of Greater Sao Paulo receiving sewage
collection services from 38% to 55% and sewage treatment services from 5% to
40%. Second, it would progressively reduce the level of contamination of
Greater Sao Paulo water resources by reducing the discharge of raw sewage into
them. The project would reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases, such



- 19 -
as meningitis, and the infant mortality rate. In general, it would improve the
living conditions and labor productivity of the population.  Three and one half
million people would directly benefit from the project, 40% of whom would be
among the low-income population of the area. In addition, a large number of
low-income people living alongside Sao Paulo's polluted watercourses would
benefit from the progressive improvement of the environment. Also, low-income
people would benefit from a progressive tariff structure which allows for
cross-subsidization from higher income and industrial consumers. The proposed
project would result in the production of methane gas in the sewage treatment
plants and the saving of a substantial volume of chlorine in the treatment of
water for industrial and domestic consumption. It would also reduce the
volume of dredging in Sao Paulo's watercourses. In addition, it would enable
the reclamation of low-lying lands by filling them with dried digested sludge.
Finally, it would result in the progressive increase in land values alongside
watercourses and reservoirs over the longer term.
57.       The project is one of three possible alternatives with substantially
similar rates of return and is the one which presents the greatest environ-
mental and operational advantages. The economic rate of return for the project
was not estimated since its most important benefits are not quantifiable.  The
internal financial rate of return was estimated at 11%. This return indicates
that SABESP would recover, in full, the investments made under the project.
However, it may not be considered as an indication of the value attached by
consumers to benefits to be obtained under the project since, among other
reasons, benefits would accrue to the population at large and not only to
those discharging waste.
58.       The technical complexity and magnitude of the proposed project
involve risks associated with its timely implementation. However, SABESP's
recent experience with a water supply project of comparable magnitude and the
financing commitments undertaken by the state and federal governments and BNH
should ensure that the estimated benefits would accrue in full. Another risk
for the proposed project arises from the need to carry out concurrently some
complementary works essential for the success of the project. This risk would
be minimized by the undertaking of the state government to provide assistance
for the construction of pre-treatment plants at the industry level (Section
6.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement) and by the commitment of the municipality
of Sao Paulo to carry out certain other complementary works required for the
project (Section 8.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional da
Habitacao, SABESP, the State of Sao Paulo, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, and the draft Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section Ill of Annex III.



- 20 -
60.       In the Da,^, it has been customary in Brazil for the Bank to have
separate Project Agieements with the executing agency and financing agency,
which, in the preser,t loan, would be SABESP and the State. In deference,
however, to the rqt.esi of hNH t.hat the Bank not. establish contractual rela-
tionships with SA5ESP and the state to which BNH was not a party, and follow-
ing the pattern est blished under Loans 1009-BR and 1309-BR, Project Agreements
would not be utilized and the draft Loan Agree-ment sets forth not only the
rights and obligaricc's of ENII but also the rights and obligations of SABESP
and the state of Sao Paulo. BN!1, SABESP and the state would all be signatories
to the Loan Agreement..
61.       I am sat-;;fied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the 6anb.
PAT2z,  VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 8, 1978
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page I
hAU2L.                 * SOCIAL INOICATORS  0014 S"CEIT
LAN40 AREA (1WTHOu   ltO,)                         . -
..3A2L   mREFERECE COUNTRIES tl701
TOTAL       195t2.0                                              4(151 RECETU
AIRTC.       2D29.6                           196a        1970    ESTI4TE              M1EXICO           URUGUAY           JAPAN.
PER 00re    1 C^Y UtS12                     ;oo,n*       050o       11.40,0 /  '             690.0*       940,0*       2630.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    ... 7                              -.7....        ....          .......30;: ...................... 
POUJLATI7N  &4O YITAL STAT!STTCS
lOP  072111.4 CarO.Ye.  RILLI0N1              b,.8        32.8        210,0  Is               50,14          2.7        10a.3
POPULA?TTn DENSITY
'EO SOJAPF K4,                                ,0        11.0         13.0 /a               26.0          15.0         2S0.0
PCo 90, Wm, AGRICJLTUiAL LANO              44.0        4?,0         54.0 7T               52.0          ls.0        2744.0
vrTAL STA1TSTTCS
ORTIiG L kr*. OATE  (0/TM4U, AY)           ao,9         3904         37.1                  o3.4          22.1          17.5
091.1t0  OEATIJ  WAE 1C TwlU,av1            11.7         9,9          9.A                  10.2           9.2           7.1
T3PAAT   nRTALZtY QATe t/1ToVJ            290.0        ItO1.n          ,,                  68.5             ,,         13.1
LIFE ECRPCT&NCY AT BIRTY  trOS)            s6. 0        59?4         61.4                  62.t          69,3          71.1
GRMSA RCRitOuCTOS 9ATF                       2.6         2.6          ?.5                    3,1           1.4          1.0
oOPULATIIn GenwTw "*Tt (Y)
ROPUL                                        s n         2.9          2.9                   3,4           0.7           1.0
JIORA                                        5.5 5       5 0          4.0                     , A         1.2           a.0
JRRAN 230PLATT14 (IX 1' T(T1AL                406,n       56,0         5?,                    58,7          7,s1         St.Ja
AGE STUOTUPE c(F?RC9N1T
0 To 1  YE9S                             03.m n        2,         01.7                   06,2          28.3          24.l0
IS T1  60 YArs                             5sa n        55.0        SS.1                   50,1          53,5          68.,
65 YoFAt A*9   OoER                          3.0         3.0          3.2                    S,7          H.2          7I1
'GE MEPE*r'NCv rATTJ                           0.9          0.8        0,                     l.n           0.6           0.5
0C7An'tcT  r'.EDFN0ENcJ  04in 1,6                          I.5         1.4 /b                 eo            1.0          03.6
-4TI r 'L*NNTNC5
&CCEDTIA CCI4ULATIVF, TwoU1                   ,        ?50,0           , .                 55 .5 
IsIs rO  n(     AOARNIC  wo4N,                           Ib .. 1.6                                                      .
Tis0t lA^,4  nRCE  CTHOUSA'mI2            p2700,n    29400 a        34100 0               13nn00.        I1n20.o      53300.0
LAO.7  c2:rc  T1.  AGQtCJL1TUQE  (S)         *520         40,4          37, o8b.                            17.0          19.0
JNE*PL7ver (X O,T LA309 FM'CE)                  ,,          7.5         5.0                     *-          8.0 /a        1.2
TN:34E 1TSTotSUrT3N
X 99 PRTVA7F TNC(1iE 9LC'9 my.
.13"SST  s0 1w1 WUSENOLD!                  3, Q   ^a    55 0 /a        ,7.A                              19.0 /b       14.2
.r;rgST 20S olt W%SEIHOLOS                 b2.:7;       b2 .07;                             3,2          47,5 7i       37,6
L3mE9T   20n o09 M3JS(EwLDA                  3 sS        3 o07         ,,                    U.;           4 4.7        8.8
LOwEST   Q0x oF 'JSi,tmOLVS                 10.3w       i0.07          ,,                   10.2  -      10,27;        22.3
0I!TORIRTT3IN (19 LA') 3wOEQ941
t j.,.F3 40 TttO t 100 21   "FOS               .,         a5,0            ,,                  *,7,           ...
3 7*NF.   8r 34AL;EST lOt 3    4NERS            ,           1.5           ,,                   0,3
4E0LT   &O *93 UTOTTIn4
O7R,JLAYI7,.  FOP   4011110'..              .170  1o 1.0 l     n     1650.0/c              10o  n0                      Sa  O  80.0
2taULAtTlt   PFO '4:s2.1j- 0'd'r4                ,      5220;0 /b  ?920,0.                 15?0/0  I     134n 00        2a0.0
'70.,ATTIN  PEQ 4'PI0TAL  0Fn aF75,                        ho0.0      260.0                  9hoIn         170         80.0
'ER rAITA SUpPX y,
C111ICS  (I 11 4F3J19PSF` T)              I 02,0 a.                 115.0                 110.0         107.0          OS6.0
P,,T14 fGR&0s 2FR 3lI 10 o                               r           67.0                  63. n3,a                    76.0
.    ...Tr.' 01 0T,A 4,10  PILRE       3A,0           i0 9 0                          2 .n /b       64.0          45,0
)EATW OATF Ct'410U   *S.Et 1.4                  ,,,                       ,                     e,.3                       1.0
.........       /"U1009lA                          ..                       .0,                                ,             .
--:;;  TF         LL FIT .-T7!
*oT0A90  qCwoO                              95p0       87,           86.I0 4h.Q0                       106.0         100.0
`ECt!'ierY Se.43%                           11.0          ..          26,C                 22n.           57,0         91.0
YEA&O4 if ICW01r.II  PRJvrDEn
(9y99T A00 SPECW  L1.vFL)                  1t.n          1 .9        t 11, 0               r2            12,0          12.,
VIC&TY14AL E401i.1L.4ET
fx IF tFCiNl4A9Y).                          19.0        17.0         19.0 /d               73,9          21.0          20.0
4AOIL  LI!FRACY ;ATE (03                      al,0        64.0            ,,                  7b.0          91,0         99.0
40qJsls: .
aERS1lo9 PrI glow (L29'-1)                      ,,          1,0         1.1 /c                 22 2,                       1,0
CCUPIET  ) .ELLINGS afTwOUT                                                  -'
DIRE'3 w*TE9    )                             ,,        73.0l/c      66.2                  61.0 /c          ,,          5.0
ACCEAS T1 FLECI9TCTTY
((1 nr ALL  wELL24;S1                                   080          55.6                  59,S O,
OIJQAL !AELLINGS CN4AETTEO
11 6LE!TQ?TCTTY  (0                           ,            ,0        12.5                  2S.0             ,,
C09S IOl T TD
-AIT' _;,; tvE.S  ('E9  1l..j 0.)           b6, n         So  M       62.0                  276 o         346 0        551.0
^A00' - ' tA^*  (PER T4IU :np                 7.0        a5 0         35.0                   24 n                        80.0
OL!C7TrcTTv  (:.4wiYO  PER COP)              30,0        V)1,I0       649,0                  5s7,n         762.0       3391.0
9E*1t'INT  (XG,00 P    :CP1                    3.           2 7          2.5                   3 .           7.0          I . 
S!E E "91  AJoT  rTETNTI--J9- 39- IC-                                                                             - -        -      -



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOESS
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to ay year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970 and for Most Rocant Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
*   GNP per capita data are baed on World Bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
Japan has been selected as on objective country since the Brazilian Government has shown particular interest in Japan,s development experience,
lso the two govarnmnts hav  conducted joint studies to identify poesible future economic problene of Brasil on the baaia of the experience in
Japan.
BRAZIL      1960    /a  Economically active population.
1970    /a  Econcoically active population;    /b  Hospital personnel;    /c  Inside only.
MOST RECENT EBTmATR    /o  1976;           /b  iatlo of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1972;    /d  1971;
71 Inside only.
MEXIC0      1970    /a  Including assistent nurses;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Inside only.
URUGUAY    1970      /  Montevideo only;    /b  1967.
R13, Augat 2, 1977
DIINITZ4S OFP IOCiAL. DICATOM
Lend Ares (thou kp2)                                                                        Population Par nuralca person - Population divided by number of practicing
TotaL - Total surface arse comprising land are  nd inland wavtar.                             mal and fmale graduste nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Ugric. - Most recent estimae of agricultural  rea used temporartly or perne-                  auxilisry personnel with training or experience.
nently for crope, pastures, market & kitchen garden  or to lie fallow.                    Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public and private general and specialized hospital and
GNP Per capita (US$) - GNP per capita astimtes at current market prices,                       rehabilitation centers; excludes nuring hams and sestblisihts for
calculated by sam  convrsion matbod as world Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                    custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per-capita supply of csoia1   f recuirements) - Computed from energy
equivalent of dnet oo suppslie  available in country per capita per day;
Population and vital statistic                                                                available supplies comprice domeetic producion, imports lass exports, and
Population (mid-year million)   As of July first: if not avilable, average                    changes in stock; nret  upplies  exclude  nimal fed, *eedas, quantities  aed
of two end-yeAr estimates; 1460, 1970 and 1975 data.                                        in food proseoing snd loesea in distribution; requirements wrs estima ted
by PAO based on phyitological needs for naorml activity -ad health coneid-
Population de.sirv - nPr sQurre bo - mid-yer popultion per square kilometer                   arcag mnvironentl temperacure, body weights, aga and *ax diecrtbtton  of
(100 hectares) of total area,                                                               population, and allowing 101 for waste at household level.
FoWulation dnitv - Per square he of aeric. land - Computed Se  hbov  for                    Per capita supply of protain (grme owr day) - Protein concent of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                     net supply of food per day; net supply of foo  is defined  s  bhove ; require-
manIa for all countries estsblished by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital seatistics                                                                               provide for a miniman  alloa nce of 60 grms of total protein per day, end
Crude birth rete par thosand  average   Annual liv  births per thousand of                     20 Srese of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gr-. should be animal
id-year populationu; In-year &rithmtic everages  nding in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; the  standcrds are lower than those of 75 gram  of tocsl protein
and five-year averge ending in 1975 for most recent setimate,                                and 23 grems of animal protein as an overse for th  world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thosasnd. avrage - Asnmul deaths per thowsad of mid-year                  in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-yar arithmecic averages  nding in 1960 and 1970 and five-                  Per capita protein suppl, fro  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for mot recanc eatimt.                                           derived fra  animals and pulses in grms per day.
Infant mortality rate Cthou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age               Death rate (/thou) apes 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                   years, to children in this se group; uggested as so indictor of
Life expectncy at birth (Tre) - Average number of years of life rmaining at                    Malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year *vermSeg ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing countrie.                                                                             Edacaion
Gross reproduction rate - Avrage number of live daughters a womn will beer                   Adlum ed enrollmntn ratio - primacy school - Enrollwt of all ageS se per-
tn her normal reproductive period if shs experinces presnt age-specific                     centage of primac  ochool-ege population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fsrtility ratse; usualIly five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 snd 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary educacion; for countries vith
for dveuloping countries,                                                                              education, enrollnent may exceed 100% since es puptis are below
Population xrwth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rate  of mid-year                   or sbove the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adlusted enrollm me ratio - secondarT school - Computed as above; secondary
Population growth rate (7.) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                       education requires at leasct four years of approved primray instruction;
population; different definition  of urban  rees may affect comarability of                  provides general, vocational or teacher training iostruction  for pupila
data among countries,                                                                        of L2 to 17 years of  Se; correspondence courses ar  generally excluded.
Urban population aT of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Yars of schooling  rovidd (first ond second levels) - Total years of
definitiona of urban areas mAy affect comparsbbiity of date _m    countries.                  thooling; a  secondary levl, vocational instruction may be partially or
Ase structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years),  orking-agoe (15-64 years),                 VocaI   nrole             of secondary) - Vocational institutio   include
and retired (65 years  nd over) as percentages of mid-year population,                       technical, industrial or other progrms which operace independently or as
Aae depende-cy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 snd 65 and over to those                   depsroments of econdary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                     Adult literacy rate (1) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and or to                     c.n.age of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 Yeers.
Family plannine - acc-cors (cumulative. thou) - Cuooletive number of acceptors              Houains
of birth-control devices under auspices of national fmily planning progrm                  Persons or room (urban) - Average number of persons per room in occupied
since inception,                                                                             conventional dwllings in urban areas; dwelltngs seclude non-permnent
Facmlv planning - usr   !. of married  oen) - Prcentages of married women of                   structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-4  years) who u   birth-control devices to all married               Occupied dwellings without piped water (%) - Occupied conventional dwllings
women in  *   age group.                                                                     in urben and rural areas  ithout inside or outaide piped water focilities
as prrcentage* of all occapied dwellings.
Dployet                                                                                      Aces  to electictyCTof all duellincs) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Economically active persons, including armed                    electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in  rban and
forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,  tudnts, etc.  definitions                   rural  reas.
in various countries ar  not comparabie.                                                   Rural dellings conected to alectricity (.) - Compued as aboe for rural
Labor force in agriculture (1 - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,                dwellings only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unemployed (% of labor force) - Unemployed arm useually defined as persons who               Conuamption
are able  nd willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, rmained out               Radio receiver  (per thou wop) - All tyes of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Jo., and seeking work for a specified minimm period not exceeding one                   to Sen-ral public per thousand of population; axcludes unlicensed recetvers
week; may not be comparable between countries due to diff-rent definitions                   in countries and In years when registration of radio sets  as in effect;
of unemployed  nd source of data,  .g., employment office statistics, semple                 date for recent years mAy not be comparable since most countries abolished
surveys, compulsory unployment insurance.                                                    Licensing.
Fesasngrcas  or ho   op     Passenger oars comprise motor cars sasting
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                     lea  then eight perons; excludes mbulanc,sa, hPeriee  and military
received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, nd poore-t 40% of house-                     hieclas.
holds.                                                                                     Electricity (kwh/yr por cap) - Annual consuaption of industrial, coercial,
public and private electricity in kilmowtt hours per capita, generally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentages of land ond by wealthiest 107.                    based on productioa dtc, without  llownce for losses in grids but llow-
and poorest 102 of tend owners,                                                              ing for imports end exports of electricity.
h mlth and Nutritin                                                                          NeWprint (kg/yr par rcp) - Per capits annual consuption in kilograms
Population per physician - Population divided by nonber of practicing
physician qualified from a medical school at university level.



17110 3
tCOl6SIC DEVELO07W4T9  DA1TA %11.T10
__________________ A_  t-t___________________________                                                                        C2       -o,d   Ay.o.a.  Ct,.th   1.1g.
1973              19         toot    1975               1976                     (97        -                                      1916-        191-1         V1911_          I...3          1976            11990             1901
A.      196T1-665L 6ACCOUNTS                                    m11ll55. 1111$ et 1913 Pr11... ...d ft.h.ne* R.te                                                                                                                                       Ac Per.0 ... t   Coy
t1.  c.r,1' (9a-6.t  ,1-1.,                                 77,8991           119,361             58.936            96.693              1112.6191         1126,1172           1111,869          7.5            6.9          11.7          to0.0          to5.7           102.3             1117.2
2  5o   r.-  loe        - 1 T..                         -                 .91               -11.796           .1,609                  777T            -2.766             -6.156            -                                                        _  --1.5        -1.3              -2.4
3.  Gr.... D-tf.ol  bo-,                                    77.1195           86,270              97 1160           9,5.03             1111.111           171,426             1811,793          7.0            6.3J.                      110.0.         100.0           1100.0            1110.11
6    lwort,                                   7,377~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  9,737          a1,06             R1.31                R,09              9.231,5                              .     2.        0           a.             9.7            11.7             7.6              7.7
5.  bo,o,,-t, -To),...             6,596               .306               3,305             7.313                7,953            51,216              1111.313         3.5           111.11       10.6             115            7.763.3"130.
6.  t,or,    Tp Ad4o,e                                       6396              3,sis1              3,3511            3,90                 7,87               A.5S7             16.639          .0399                       11.                .5            6.27.7.
7.  11oo,,o,oo. Cop (6-65                  9111           ~~~~~~              ~~        ~       ~~~~4,262  3962.333      t10               1648              -27                                                                                        I    .  .  .    -1.
8 C__P.o.t I..                                           611,529            66,1168             69.833            76.196               79.1111           93.690             13133.07          3.4            5.3            .             79.1          110.11          7722.
9.  looe,booot                               1~~~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~17,363  211,966  20,301         71.673               73,0110            28.3115            63,111           7. 3           3.8           9.7            27.3          72.11            23.6             26.6
110.  6,tlo,,,11  Soolog,                    113.~~~~~~~~5635    1.5                1.02              1711                 20.366            25.7118            63 213            3.7          110.2         10.9            20.11          111.6           211.7             23.6
it.  7,-ootl   San.                                          16,3632            1,71               1730               9,087               72,t00             2.770.3            65,3116          9.3            9.1         51.3             211.0          20.1            32.8             26.6
1,   FR.C11A01ISE TRADE                                    milli11..,. 6110 at  ,t.tr,  P.011-                                                                                                                                                      As___ Pe__ ....___t____Tt____________t
"Co,,,,-   Good.                                       1,1125             1,620              1,358              1,5110              11.311             2.936              4,2211         10.3             I.7                                         2.                  211.11
11't-ol.o.  -,d                                          It.oto.  11    2,960               2.873             3,3513               ,1133              3,230              8,73           71.6           50.0            .31.5                       29.2Z 219                         2.
I..t-dt.11.t. G-o.ol                                 2121,3             3,073               4.006             A.66                 3.1155            3,026              111,029         119.3           1.          117.11          33.8           29.11           27.7              211.9
Covlt,l Cool,                                         2,1163            3,5011              3.932             3,317                3,1196            9,1690             116,733         58.0           113.3        20.3            36.6           28.6            32.7              38.5
To.d   (F0M)                                  6,592             12,6411             12.1169           112,277              112.690 -         111,131             39,242          18.7           10.3         16.0           1110.0         1100.9          1100.0            100.0
2.  FoPoot,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A. 701.r 6ofToal010t1
Cort.,                                                11,366               980                936             2,398                3,697              2.736              2.969          211.0           3.6          -0.7            21.1.         133.163                              .
OthoA%"-tott-.l Good.                                 2,690             31,615              3,61               3.029                3.9411            6.313              116.783         6.11          20.21         18. 610.2                      79.0            33.6             36.3
91no,.~~~~~~~~~~~11, ~~~~~400                               6411              1.027             11.015               5.5812             2.6433             3.9411         39.3           22.6         119.3            6.6           50.7            52.9              13.1
So,,l.1ro.~,o,.I   ood.                    76               634                 66                 19                  969              11,69              2,713          118.3          112.6        118.0             77.867                                          8.6
9,,,oft-,d Good.                                      11,3211           2,086               2,3 79            369                  3.61               1.536             19.723          22.3           22.6          23.             21.            2422.9.
nth-t                                                   1161               193                 209               381                 .497               393                 930         33.0           111.11         9.6             2.6            3.8             3.11              2.7
7.1.1                                         6,1199             7,955               8.670            110,1130             112,936           511.922             63.099          53.8           18.9         117.9          1o0111         1100.0          1190.0           5110,0
C.      SECTOR 0OUTPUT                                          P- ... t of00at1toCota117                        In..6101,6  R.
11.  Ap1o,1to                                                     531.                                  15.0              96.3              56.6                116.4             112.2          5.6            6.3          ,33
2.  Iod.ooto                                                     33.3              32.11               32.11             33.3               33.4               32.11              34.2           7.7'           5.9          9.
3.  Oo-voI                                                       911.9             92.9                52.2              32.11              32.3               32.1               33.6           7.9            6.6          9.11
D.      PRICES1 511973 . 1100)
11.  117001  Polo,  11n,900                     1~~~      ~      ~~~~      ~        ~~100  1135  1126   1166                 1172              1179                  2111        9.9            $.2          3,0
2.  bopoot Polo. 5.4.0                          500~~~~~~~~~~~IO  516                 1171.11                                50                 262                  328       '11.6             .1.
3,  T-,,  of Tr od. Io,                                         1100               114                 76                so                   go                 76                   76 .- 
6.  C-o.I 11 111,. 11-0                                         1100              129                 1166               T23                  .                                       -
9.  600.0  .-.-0.9  itot.                                    1100               i52                 1136              1176
1'.     S111.CT1t0 111111CATOR1                                 1199-73.          11974-76            1977-60            19111-85                                            F.         e11*W11197j1                             11970        11973       11990
11.  1I1 c11,110                                                               3.60               3.50               2.63                                                       11.  L.aho  Fro.. (Mill11..)                 29.6         34.1        39.4T
2.   Iop-t ?.loIoll7t                                       11.93            -9.13                0.46               11.03                                                      2.  Oaa.Io.7o,.                                7.3         1.0         6.9
3.  6oo4    9.boa  1,0110, 8et.                             0.211             0.113               0.37               0.13                                                              (% of ?.1.)
6.190610  fto              Saolnga tat.                     0,1                 .30.29                               0.28,        .                                             3.  tepleyee.tt  111o,                        21.2        32.6         36.7
9.  Inpooto/COP                     0.076             0.099 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~011.07       0.07                                                               (0 ahotoa
6.  loooata,oot/COP            11.229            0.237               0.223             11.235                                                   3.11,  Atol,onltooa                             63.6        39.5         37.643.9 39.5  37.
0.01     0.01              -0.02                                                                                                     "-U~~~~~~~~~~~.3    0roo  3.  60.7  69.
0.      PUBLIC5 1FI669CE
I.  C.r   t1.0,.                                           111                112111-1.                            112.1
5.11.  7.,. 11.oe1.                                                              105.                                  1.
2.  CIoo    oodt ,61                                                          3.9                 6.2                7.3
3.  Corbe~~~~~~~~t 0ool.~~~~~~              4.9~i              5.                  3.11              6.8
6.   CopVeal rt17.voofl .o                                 6I,.9-6                                                   .
6.11.  C.ooer,o.oot llo,oI~~~~~~~~.  Capital  !oo,-tta it  3.9             6261
H.  CURENT FEDERAL. 00V11119t9T EX1t001111                  Fao.*at  f1 Total
1973              11974               1975
11.    F      Iato                                           6.                 9119.
2.    01t0  ftoolol  91l-r o                                2362.1                                 24.9
.3.     Aoro1-tr-                                            I.11.9,.1
6.     0t6,to.oo o-a                                         1.                12.5                1.
5.    Adjllal,    6   .10.35.9                                                 33.9                33.0
6.    C~Io                                                   16.0              16.                 111.
Total Co.r-t Fop-odlOtt                            1100.00           1100.0              1110.0
if  0.11011007 .ot  -o  to total. See0,.1   .00.4108g.                                                                                                                                                                                  Jao,,.n  10197
N  edrl C-oroa-t.
o  .J 5n afes1o  01010 no..J   llo   6000.0






ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYM1hINTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCF                                       Page 4
(Million US$)
_       .        A C T U A L                      Preliminary Estimate           P R O J E C T E D
1973          1974           1975           1976            1977          1978           1979           1980           1985
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.    Exports (incl. NFS)                                       6,596          8,471          9,255         10,657         13,583         15,464         17,374         20,232         46,766
2,    Imports (incl. NFS)                                       7,577         14,678         14,296         14,435        14,902          16,82'9        18,948         21,276         44,809
3.    Resource Balance                                          - 981         -6,207         -5,037         -3,778         -1,319         -1,365         -1,574         -1.043          1,957
4.    Net Factor Service Income                                 - 734          - 916         -1,735         -2,288         -2,624         -3,051         -3,383         -3,791         -5,416
1.  Net Interest Payments                                    - 514          - 652         -1,463         -1,758        -2,159          -2,533         -2,810         -3,155         -4,336
2.  Direct Investment Income                                 - 198          - 248          - 235          - 380         - 415           - 468          - 523          - 586         -1,030
3.  Other Factor Service Income                              -  22          -  16          -  37          - 150         -  50           -  50          -  50          -  50          -  50
5.    Current Transfers (Net)                                      27              1            -                4             10             10             10             10             10
6.    Balance on Current Account                               -1,688         -7,122         -6,772         -6,062         -3,933         -4,407         -4,948         -4,825         -3,449
7.    Private Direct Investment                                   940            887            895          l,edl          1,050          1,100          1,265          1,455          2,340
Medium and Long Term Loans
a. Official Sources
8.    Disbursements                                               562            979            856            768          1,024          1,234          1,404          1,585          2,722
9.    Amortization                                               -217          - 191          - 273          - 384          - 367          - 391          - 488           - 597        -1,519
10.    Net Disbursements                                           345            788            583            384            657            842             915            988          1,203
b. Private Sources
11.    Disbursements                                             3,993          6,080          5,974          7,388          5,218          6,354          7,416           7,370          9,215
12.    Amortization                                             -1,455         -1,716         -1,868         -2,488         -2,992         -3,892         -4,649          -4,989         -7,024
13.    Net Disbursements                                         2,538          4,364          4,106          4,900          2,226          2,462          2,767           2,381          2,191
14.    Use of IMF Resources                                        -                 7           -              -              -              -               -              -              -
15.    Short-term Capital and Capital NEI                          424          - 123          - 142          1,961            255            -               _              _
16.    Change in Reserves (- = increase)                        -2,559            953          1,046         _2,193           -255             -              -              -           -1,706
17.    Foreign Exchange Reserves                                 6,551          5,598          4,552          6,745          7,000          7,000          7,000          7,000          11,202
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.    Totai M&LT Loan                                           4,770      .   7,034          6,946          8,687
1.1.  IBRD                                                        199            140            426            486
1.2.  IDB                                                          86            203            167             186
1.3.  Governments                                                 529            518            512           1,251
1.4.  Suppliers                                                   857          1,088          1,376         '1,300
1.5.  Bonds                                                        37             25            -              139
1.6.  Financial Credits                                         3,146          5,103          4,515          6,076
C. Memorandtum Items
1.    Grant Element of Total Commitments                            2.5            2,5            2.5             2.5
2.    Average Interest (Percent)                                   8.8            9.5            9.5             9.4
3.    Avcrage Maturity (Years)                                      7.2            9,0            9.9             8.3
January 1978



ANNEX I
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS  r/ Aage 5
1973            1974           1975            1976
A. Medium-and Long-Term rjeb-
(Disbursed only)
1   Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                       12,571          17,166         21,171         25,985
1.  Financial Credits             .                           7,848          11,211         14,561         18,194
2.  Others (Bit., Multi., Bonds, Suppliers)                  4,723            5,955          6,610          7,791
3.  Public and Publicly Guaranteed                           6,496            8,533         11,461         14,852.
4.  Private                                                  6,075            8,633          9,710         11,133
2,  Net Debt Service                                              2,186           2,572          3,583          4,668
1.  Total Interest                                             840            1,370          1,828          2,039
2.  Net Interest                                               514              652          1,463          1,758
3.  Public Debt Service                                            --             1,287          1,550          1,990
B,  Debt Burden
1.  Net Debt Service Ratio                                           28.6            30.4           38.7           43.3
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratio b/                                  36.1            33.3           45.1           46.5
3.  Public Debt Service Rstio                                         --             15.2           16.7           18.7
4.  Liquidity Ratio c                                                19.4            24.7           3520           33.6
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP d/                                           2.8             2.5            2.9            3.4
6.  Public Debt Service/GDP                                           -1.2                           12             1.4
7.  Total DOD/GDP -                                                  16.1            16.4           17.2           19.1
C.  Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                                   8.8           10.9            10.5           10.6
2.  Net Debt Service/Total DOD                                       17.4           15.0            16.9           18.0
D.  Dependency Ratios for M&LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (ind. NFS)                           60.2           48.1           47.1           56.5
2.  get Transfer/Imports (ind. NFS)                                  27.0           25.7           19.4            22.5
3.  Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                                 44.9           52.6           41.3           39.8
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                      4.2            3.5            3.7            2.1
2.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                                5.1            5.1            5.2            4.7
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                3.2            3.3            2.6            2.9
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                                   Outstanding December 31, 1976
Amount                            Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                    1,217                               4.7
2.  Other Multilateral                                                        557                               2.1
3.  Governments                                                             2,862                              11.0
4.  Suppliers                                                               2,414                               9.3
5.  Bonds                                                                     289                               1.1
6.  Financial Credits                                                     18,194                               70.0
7.  Other                                                                    452                                1.7
8.  Total M&LT Debt                                                       25,985                              100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                                14,852                               57.1
C.  Debt Profile
1.  Net Debt Service 1977-80/Total DOD end of 1976                                 108.5
g/  Details of debt for end 1977 are not yet available; 1977 figures quoted in text are preliMinary estimaues.
b/  Including Net Direct Investment Income.
c/  Net Debt Service as a percent of exports plus reserves in excess of 3 months imports.
d/  In constant 1973 Prices.                                                                                  January 1978
-- Not Available



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Thirty-six loans fully disbursed                                  982.9
677   1977  Furnas - Centrais Eletricas       Power               80.0           3.4
Marimbondo
728   1971  Centrais Eletricas do Sol         Power               70.0           5.0
do Brasil - Salto Osorio
755   1971  Brazil                            Education            8.4           1.6
756   1971  Brazil                            Ports               45.0          19.6
786   1971  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways            46.0           5.1
797   1972  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              64.5            .4
813   1972  Brazil                            Roads               89.0            .2
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica             Industry            64.5           2.5
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas       Power               60.0            .6
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                            Land Settlement      6.7           4.6
887   1973  LIGHT - Servicos de               Power               20.0           3.8
Eletricidade S.A.
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0          61.4
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                            Agro-Industry       54.0          32.1
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power               81.0          47.0
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional de Habitaco        Water Supply        36.0          10.2
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education           23.5          22.9
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal          Railways           175.0          66.2
1075   1975  Brazil                            Roads              110.0          67.1
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry              95.0          92.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry              60.0          58.1
1153   1975  Brazil                            Agriculture         23.0          18.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista        Railways            75.0          59.8
1195   1976  Brazil                            Rural Development  12.0           11.5



ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of December 31, 1977)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1206   1976  Brazil                          Develop. Bank        85.0            80.5
1207   1976  Brazil                          Feeder Roads         55.0            55.0
1249   1976  Brazil                          Agriculture          40.0            39.1
1256   1976, Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer           50.0            40.7
1257   1976, Companhia Paraense de           Power                52.0            49.3
Energia Eletrica - COPEL
1300   1976  Eletrobras                      Power                50.0            49.7
1302   1976  Brazil                          Nutrition            19.0            18.6
1309   1976  Banco Nacional de Habitacao   Water Supply           40.0            37.6
1317   1976  Brazil                          Agro. Industry       83.0            83.0
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                       Power                82.0            75.4
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Develop.       42.0            39.9
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes         Fertilizer           64.0            63.0
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do           Fertilizer           82.0            77.0
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452/2 1977  Brazil                          Education            32.0            32.0
1488/2 1977' Brazil                          Rural Develop.       17.0            17.0
Total                                            3,199.4 /1
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               434.3
Total now outstanding                            2,765.1
Amount sold                           45.6
of which has been repaid           26.4           19.2
Total now held by Bank                           2,745.9
Total undisbursed                                                1,351.9
I  No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/2   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3
S.  STATEMENT OF IPC INVESTMENTS (As ofDecember 31, 1797
Fiscal Year                             Obligor                                         Type of Busines.                                            Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957             Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                            Electrical Eqoipmsnt                                         2.00      -        2.00
1958             Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                                  Pulp and Paper                                               1.20      -        1.20
1958             D,L.R. Plasticoa do Brasil, S.A.                                  Automotive Parts                                            0.45       _        0.45
1958             Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                            Motor Vehicles                                              2.45       -        2.45
1959             Coepanhia Mineira de Cimento Por-land, S.A.                       Cement                                                      1.20       -        1.20
1959             Chaspion Celolose, S.A.                                           Pulp                                                        4.00       -        4.00
1966/19681
1972             Acos Villares, S.A.                                               Steel                                                       8.00      1.93      9.93
1966/1969        Papel a Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                                Pulp and Paper                                               3.78     3.41      7.19
1967/1972        Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                                Fertilizers                                                 8.22      3.03    11.25
1969             Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                          Petroche-icals                                              5.50      2.88      8.38
1910             Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                           Petrochemicals                                              5.50      2.88      8.38
197!             Oxiteen, S.A. Industria e  Comercio                               Petrochemicals                                              4.60      1.44      6.04
1971             Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.                            Pulp                                                        4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975        Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                            Cement                                                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977  Companbia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                       Steel                                                      76.96      7.50    S4.46
1973            Capital Market Development Fund - FIMCAP                           Capital Market Development                                  5.00       -        5.00
1973             Enprosa do Desenvolvinento de Recursos
Mi--rais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                        Nickel Mining cnd Refining                                 26.00      4.40    30.40
1974             Industrias Villares., S.A.                                        Elevatorh and Ildustrial Equipment                          6.00       -        6.00
1974             Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                                  Textiles                                                   31.00       -       31.00
1975            Capoava Carbonos Industriais Ltd.                                  Carbon Black                                                6.18      1.08      7.26
1975            Oxiteno Nerdeste, S.A.                                             Petrochbeicals                                             10.00       -       10.O0
197b             Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                     Textiles                                                    6.45      1.00      7.45
1976             Totanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                     Textiles                                                    6.00       -        6.00
1977             EMS S. A. Productos Metalugicos                                  Iron and Aluni-um Castisgc                                 20.00       -       20.00
1977             Mintracao Rio do NSrte S.A.                                       Mining                                                     15.00       -       15.00
1i978            Cisetal Siderurgia S.A.                                           Iron and Steel                                              7.0        3.0     10.0
Total Cro00 Coemssitnento                                                                                                  296.53      35.75   332.28
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                                                     194.74       8.27   203.01
Total Consmitoe1ts Nos Held by IFC                                                                                         101.79      27.48   129.27
Total Undisbursed                                                                                                           28.13       3.33    31.46



ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 36 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:  US$80 million loan of May 25.
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date:
August 31, 1978. The Marimbondo hydroelectric station and the
bulk of the related transmission lines were completed on schedule,
and the Marimbondo power plant (1440 MW) was inaugurated on May 28,
1976. The project has been successfully implemented by FURNAS, the
consultants and the contractors, in spite of a cost overrun of
about 43%. In part, the cost overrun resulted from an increase in
the scope of the transmission system component to allow for the
construction of a more economical and reliable system, and from
larger civil works as a result of unforeseen geological problems.
The cost overrun, however, does not affect the economic justif-
ication of the project.
728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:  US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effective Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1978.
The physical component of the project has been successfully com-
pleted. Two of the four generating units are now in commercial
operation. A cost overrun of about US$120 million, 79% of the
original cost estimate, has not significantly affected the economic
justification of the project. This cost overrun was financed by
loans from ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
755       Education Project:  US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 28, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978. Progress on
the construction and equipping of the project schools is now proceed-
ing satisfactorily, and 80% of the project has been completed. A
20% cost overrun, mainly for civil works, is being financed by the
Government. Project implementation is behind the original schedule
due to initial delays in establishing and staffing the project unit
and because of subsequent changes in project content.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30. 1979. After long
delays, project execution is now proceeding satisfactorily. Con-
struction of the railway access Paratinga-Pereque by FEPASA is
completed. The inability of RFFSA to pay its share of the costs for
the left bank rail access was overcome by PORTOBRAS which obtained a
loan from Banco do Brasil for this purpose. Because of insufficient
increases in tariffs to compensate for inflation, Santos port is
experiencing financial difficulties.
786       Railway Project - MBR:  US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978. Although one year behind schedule and with a
significant increase in cost, the project is now physically complete.
Final payments on equipment contracts are being made now and are
expected to be completed by March 31, 1978.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:  US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slightly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1978. The latest cost estimate is US$862
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project is now 75% complete but is about 24 months behind
the original schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. The settlement agency, COLONE, has prepared revised farm
development plans whose credit component, to be financed by public
financial institutions, will be significantly higher than originally
estimated, although still low in comparison to other settlement
projects. Administrative delays in the release of public funds for
farm credit, road construction and COLONE working capital require-
ments and difficulties in recruiting project staff delayed the start
of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered by lack of
assured financing, and this problem is compounded by cost overruns
presently amounting to 130%.
887       LIGHT-Power Distribution and Subtransmission Project:  US$20 million
loan of April 16, 1973; Effective Date:  July 31, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977. Principally due to difficulties encountered in
preparing bidding documents and delays in deliveries of equipment
and materials, the project is about two years behind schedule.
Complete delivery and installation of the bulk of these items was
accomplished by June 30, 1977. Final payments on equLipment contracts
are being completed.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Construction of the earth-fill dam was delayed by about
nine months due to very heavy rains. However, construction of the
concrete dam and power house is ahead of schedule. FURNAS expects
to complete the power plant in December 1981, about four months
behind schedule. The present cost estimate is about 88% over the
appraisal cost estimate, 13% of which is due to the need for
increased physical quantities due to geological problems. The rest
of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size of the
transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil works.
However, the project remains economically justified.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were
made during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance
with the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by
the Government, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3
million. During the second half of 1977, the Government
restricted the funds available for sub-loans under this project
in line with its policy of restricting credit expansion to control
inflation. However, budgetary allocations for 1978 will allow
commitments to continue at the rate envisaged in earlier forecasts.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17. 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. Resettlement of the 9,700 families to be dis-
placed by the Sobradinho reservoir is underway, and new towns to
house the urban portion of the population have been constructed.
The rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses are being resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule. Construction of the transmission lines and sub-stations
is about 6 months behind schedule.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. Difficulties in subproject preparation, which are now
resolved, caused disbursements to fall behind schedule. However,
the loan is now fully committed to 41 subprojects of which 29 are
under construction and 12 completed.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is proceeding reasonably well, and is ex-
pected to be completed by the target date. Project implementation
units have been established in all eight project states and these,
together with the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The
pre-investment studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan,
have been completed and have yielded useful information for future
sector investment planning.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower improved in the first nine months of
1977, further improvement is necessary for it to be able to effec-
tively carry out its investment program. The Government recently
decided to deregulate most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978.
it will make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services which it wishes to remain in operation. These actions
should significantly improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date:  May 15, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road cor,'
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implemeaitation
of the road maintenance component is making progress. Bids have
been invited for civil works and equipment for the 95 weighi-ng
stations.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than ez-pected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the ,roject
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made.  Substantial changes were made resulting ; etter
management and control of the project.  The project is now p,;ress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Procurement of equipment is about 75% complete.
The project is 12 months behind schedule. A decision to chauge from
a cold mill to a plate mill is being considered due to changes in
forecast demand. The effect of this change on the economic jostif-
ication of the project and its financial implications is be_`:
investigated.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. CODEVASF made only limited progress on
construction for this project during 1977 because of heavy rains
in the project area. Physical completion of the project will
probably extend to 1980, and postponement of the closing date may
be required. Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over
the appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have
resulted from design changes, rapid increases in the costs of
civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation.
Modifications in the design of emergency and irrigation works are
being studied by CODEVASF and its consultants with a view to
limiting further cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport
Master Plan Study for Sao Paulo is presently under way and the first
results are expected shortly. The technical assistance program
which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations, marketing and data
processing systems is showing results. Although FEPASA's financial
position has improved, it is still not satisfactory. The Government
recently deregulated most freight tariffs. Beginning in 1978, the
state government will make payments to the railways to meet deficits
on uneconomic services which it wishes to remain in operation.
These actions should assist in significantly improving FEPASA's
financial position.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Progress is being adversely affected by funding
delays and marketing problems in the principal project crop, peren-
nial cotton. Means of resolving the problem are under discussion.
Implementation of the research and credit components of the project
has been particularly successful. Disbursements are behind the
original appraisal schedule, partially because of funding delays.
1206      Development Banking Project:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) an initial delay in the commitment of funds under this project
because of differences between the relending terms of the agencies
concerned and those required under the Loan Agreement. These
differences are now resolved; (ii) a leveling off of the industry's
demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource constraints of
the National Development Bank (BNDE). Measures to accelerate
commitment of the loan are under study.



ANNEX II
P&age 1 0
Loan No.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. After some initial delays, project execution
is now progressing satisfactorily. Three sub-loans totalling
US$12.6 million of Bank financing have been approved and two more
are expected to be approved soon.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of April 27,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. The project is progressing well and in some
areas ahead of schedule. Implementation of the civil works program
is actively in progress at the 21 stations. Facilities and research
programs at seven experiment stations in the three priority regions
(North, Northeast and Central-West) are proceeding in accordance
with project goals; Staffing is in advance of project goals.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 30% completed.
Disbursements are considerably behind appraisal forecast, mainly
because of delays in procurement of major subtransmission equipment.
The Borrower is updating 1976-79 distribution expansion program,
and the adjusted program should bring disbursements closer to the
original schedule by year-end 1978.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. Disagreements, now resolved, on nutri-
tional and technical criteria have delayed BNDE participation in
the project.  The INAN project unit is staffed with seven pro-
fessionals out of the ten needed. The nutrition delivery system's
field tests are proceeding reasonably well. The other components
of the project are proceeding on schedule.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. The Bank has approved
sub-loans for 75 sub-projects in cities of less than 5,000
inhabitants, 14 sub-project in cities of between 5,000 and 20,000
inhabitants and 3 sub-projects in cities of more than 20,000
inhabitants. Several additional sub-projects are being reviewed.



ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
are not expected to begin until later in 1978. Budgetary allocations
for 1978 will allow commitments to continue at the rate envisaged
in earlier forecast.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. Procurement and construction are now underway and pro-
ceeding according to schedule, with no major problems encountered.
Disbursements are lagging behind the appraisal forecast because of
delays in preparing bidding documents which resulted in delays of
contract awards. However, disbursements are expected to be on
schedule by year-end 1978.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
well. However, because of the agricultural credit restrictions
imposed by the Government during the second half of 1976 and in
early 1977, as part of its program to control inflation, credit
for this project was delayed. However, Banco do Brasil has recently
agreed to release the necessary funds, and the credit program is
expected to resume according to the agreed schedule. Due mainly to
administrative difficulties, participation in this project by land-
less producers is significantly lower than originally envisaged,
but the Government and the participating banks have given assurances
that this would be corrected in the future. Both the health and
education components have advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
The project is proceeding according to schedule.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project is proceeding according to schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO SEWAGE COLLECTION AND TREATMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: approximately
3 years.
(b) Project prepared by: the beneficiary with the assistance
of consultants.
(c) First presentation to the Bank: July 1976.
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: December 1976.
(e) Completion of Negotiations: January 27, 1978.
(f) Planned Deadline for Effectiveness: June 1978.
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  BNH to exchange views with Bank on the management and regulati(.
of the PLANASA program (para. 39).
(b)  SABESP to carry out technical assistance and training program
(para. 43).
(c) SABESP to take all steps necessary to obtain in each fiscal yea.ii
revenues at least equal to its operating expenses, debt service
and a percentage of the average value of its net fixed assets
(para. 46).
(d)  SABESP to price bulk water sales to municipal water supply syst-s
so as to at least cover full cost and a return on related inves-
ments (para. 46).
(e) SABESP to study the feasibility of increasing the number of
industrial customers connected to its water supply system
(para. 46).
(f)  SABESP to reduce progressively its unaccounted water (para. 4
(g)  SABE.SP to study and modify sewage collection and treatment tr;
system (para. 46).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(h) BNH to prepare proposal for national tariff system for sewage
collection and treatment services (para. 46).
(i)  State and Federal Governments to provide any additional
financing that could be needed to complete project (para. 52).
(j) The State to appoint representatives of its agencies to coordinate
with project unit the execution of project (para. 53).
(k) The State Government to provide assistance for the construction
of pre-treatment plants at industry level (para. 58).
(1) The Municipality of Sao Paulo to carry out certain complementary
works (para. 58).






(I *4                                              F-   '                                     1*,'i; ;| 
i  L'~--'                                                         U E  *   .   ' 0    g    ' .' | I /- i
f                '~~~.    / 
AU.
e   \  E 5   i;G         @           91  X           X                                          {~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 u
F-- Z
ON~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~ ~ ~ . pR                                                                             D             ,
I-k*  '-4                            N,               (Y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                         6               Ij 
.....  
(             <0    -~~~,                                                /                                             Z



