Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22533
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-21949; TF-21948)
ON
GRANTS
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.8 MILLION
TO
BRAZIL
FOR A
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SUBPROGRAM:
SCIENCE CENTERS & DIRECTED RESEARCH -- PHASE I
AND
EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE
Dcc 17. xool
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit =  Cruzeiro (Cr$) (at Appraisal)
Real (R$) (at Completion)
Cr$ 1 =  US$ 0.0011
Real (R$) 1   US$1
US$ 1 =   Cr$ 913
US$ 1     Real (R$) 1
FISCAL YEAR
Brazil: January 1 to December 31  Project: January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABC           Agencia Brasileira de Cooperaqdo
(Brazilian Cooperation Agency, Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
CAPES         CoordenaXao de Aperfei oamento de Pessoal de Nivel Superior
(Coordinating Agency for Graduate Training)
CEC           Commission of the European Communities
CNPq          Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnol6gico
(National Scientific and Technological Development Council)
COAP          Coordenaqdo de Apoio de Programas Prioritarios
(Priority Programs Support Coordination)
CORPAM        Comissao Coordenadora Regional de Pesquisas na Amaz6nia
(Regional Coordinating Commission for Research in the Amazon)
CPATU         Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuairia do Tr6pico Umido
(EMBRAPA's Agricultural Research Center for the Wet Tropics)
CTC           Comite Tecnico Cientifico
(Technic-Scientifical Committee)
DCTEC         Departamento de Cooperaqdo Tecnica
(Technical Cooperation Department)
EC            Evaluation Committee
EEZ           Economic and Ecological Zoning
EMBRAPA       Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuairia
(Brazilian Agricailtural Research Company)
FESA          Foreign Exchange Expenditure Special Account
FINEP         Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos
Studies and Projects Financing Agency
Vice President:  David De Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:  Gobind Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:  John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Judith Lisansky



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FNDCT         Fundo Nacionalpara o Desenvolvimento Cientfico e Tecnol6gico
(National Fund for Science and Technology Development)
FUAP          Formuldtio (Inico de Apresentaqdo de Propostas
(Standard Researsh Proposal Form)
GEA           Grupo Especial de Acompanhamento
(High Level Advisory Group)
GIAC          Grupo Internacional de Acompanhamento Cientifico
(International Advisory Group - IAG).
G-7           Group of Seven Industrialized Countries
LAG           Intemational Advisory Group
IBAMA         Instituto Brasileiro de Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovaveis
(Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Resources)
INMETRO       Instituto Nacional de Metrologia
(National Metrology Institute)
INPA          Instituto Nacional de Pesquisa da Amaz6nia
National Institute of Amazon Research
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LIB           Limited Intemational Bidding
MCT           Minist&io de Ciencia e Tecnologia
(Ministry of Science and Technology)
MIS           Management Infornation System
MMA           Ministerio do Meio Ambiente e da Amaz6nia Legal
(Ministry of the Environment and Legal Amazon)
MOD           Memorandum of Director
MPEG          Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi
(Emilio Goeldi Museum of Para)
MRE           Minist&rio de Relateoes Exteriores
(Ministry of Foreign Affairs)
NGO           Non Governmental Organization
ODA           Overseas Development Agency
PADCT         Programa de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnol6gico
(Scientific and Technological Development Support Program
PIU           Project Implementation Unit)
RHAE          Programa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Humanos em Areas Estrategicas
(Development of Human Resources in Strategic Areas Program)
RNP           Rede Nacional de Pesquisa
(National Research Network)
RFT           Rain Forest Trust Fund
SEAIN         Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
(International Affairs Secretariat)
SECOP         Secretaria de Coordenaqdo de Programas
(Program Coordination Secretariat)
ST            Secretaria Tecnica
(Technical Secretariat)
SUDAM         Szuperintendencia de Desenvolvimento da Amazonia
(Amazon Development Bureau)
TOR           Terms of Reference
TS            Technical Secretariat
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
SCIENCE CENTERS & DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 15
9. Partner Comments                                                                18
10. Additional Information                                                         20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              27
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                28
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                              29
Annex 10. List of Directed Projects. First Call                                    30
Annex 11. Directed Research Projects, According to the Priorities Identified by CORPAN  31
Annex 12. Directed Research Projects. Executing and Cooperating Institutions       32
Annex 13. Directed Research. Indicators and Implementation Difficulties            33






Project ID: P006568                                       Project Name: RF-Science Centers & Directed
Research Project-Phase I
Team Leader: Judith M. Lisansky                           TL Unit: LCSRF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR           Report Date: December 1 7, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: RF-Science Centers & Directed Research         L/C/TFNumber: TF-21949; TF-21948
Project-Phase I
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                              Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: VY - Other Environment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   09/01/1993                             Effective:  12/01/1994        02/01/1995
Appraisal:  10/01/1993                               MTR: 12/01/1995            09/01/1997
Approval:  06/01/1994                              Closing: 03/01/1997          12/01/1999
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Federative Republic of Brazil/SCT
Other Partners: EC, USAID, ODA, RFT
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                         Shahid J. Burki
Country Manager:     Vinod Thomas                              Rainer B. Steckhan
Sector Manager:      John Redwood                              Kreszentia M. Duer
Team Leader at ICR:  Judith M. Lisansky                        Claudia Sobrevila
ICR Primary Author:  Ivo Marzall; Loretta Sprissler
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Science Centers and Directed Research Subprogram of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian
Rain Forest aimed to promote the generation and dissemination of scientific knowledge relevant to



conservation and sustainable development activities in the Amazon region. This goal was to be pursued
through a two-pronged strategy: (i) support for a grants program for funding research projects on a
competitive basis in the Amazon region; and (ii) strengthening of two established research institutions of
the Amazon, the National Institute for Amazon Research (INPA) in Manaus, and the Emilio Goeldi
Museum of Para (MPEG) in Belem.
The subprogram was divided into two separate, complementary, and simultaneous operations:
(a) Emergency Assistance, aimed at rehabilitating/updating deteriorated infrastructure and equipment in
both centers; and (b) the Science Centers and Directed Research Project - Phase I, with two components:
(i) Directed Research - aimed at financing selected research projects, and (ii) Science Centers - designed to
complement the Emergency Assistance rehabilitation program and support the institutions' reorganization,
improved management and decision making, enhanced human capacity, and dissemination of information.
Note: In view of the closely interlinked and complementary nature of the two operations under the Science Centers
and Directed Research Subprogram (Phase I and Emergency Assistance), they are assessed together in the present
ICR.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 Directed Research
The Phase I Directed Research component was designed to support a grants program to fund research
projects evaluated and selected on a transparent, competitive basis in response to established priorities.
Qualified grantees would include scientists from universities and other research institutions, both public
and private, located in the Amazon or working in close collaboration with an Amazon-based institution.
Research priorities would address current gaps in research and the demand for research results by natural
resource users and decision makers.  Research priorities for the program were identified during a
participatory workshop led by CORPAM (Comissao Coordenadora Regional de Pesquisas na
Amaz6nia--Regional Coordinating Commission for Research in the Amazon) and through additional expert
consultations with workshop participants, other members of the scientific community and the Technical
Secretariats of other Pilot Program projects.
The following four broad research themes were identified: (i) Amazonian ecosystems structure and
function (e.g. impact of land use changes on ecosystem function, biodiversity assessments and conservation
strategies); (ii) sustainable natural resource management (e.g. baseline studies on productivity of different
land and water use systems, studies on new or traditionally used forest products with potential economic
value); (iii) socioeconomic and cultural systems (e.g. cultural and social base for the sustainable use of
Amazonian environment, impact of pollution on health); and (iv) low environmental impact infrastructure
(e.g. adaptive research on renewable energies for direct use in the Amazon, studies on transport modes with
low environmental impact). The priorities for the first call for proposals were limited to the first three
areas mentioned above.
Proposals would be assessed by Evaluation Commissions (ECs) composed of highly qualified scientists,
who would use two main criteria for evaluating proposals and making recommendations: (i) priority
research focus, i.e., the extent to which the proposals addressed the pre-identified priority research themes;
and (ii) scientific merit, based on the innovative character of the proposed research, soundness of
methodology, the qualifications of the proposed research team, the relevance of the research to sustainable
- 2-



development, and adequate infrastructure for the research proposed. Individual grants would not be larger
than US$300,000 for a two-year subproject.
The operational rules and procedures for both the Directed Research and Science Centers components were
incorporated in an Operational Manual, which was prepared in 1995 and revised in 1997.
3.3.2. Science Centers/Emergency Assistance
The objective of the Science Centers component of the Phase I project and Emergency Assistance project
was to improve the scientific research and dissemination capacity of the region's most important science
centers - the National Institute for Amazonian Research (INPA) and the Emilio Goeldi Museum of Para
(MPEG).
The design of the Science Centers and Emergency Assistance operations addressed the institutional issues
raised by the 1992 Needs Assessment Report prepared by an advisory group formed by the National
Academy of Science (USA). The main deficiencies of INPA and MPEG identified in the report included:
(i) lack of clear institutional guidelines and focused research goals; (ii) low salaries and exodus of best
qualified staff; (iii) lack of administrative efficiency in research administration; (iv) lack of coordinated
activities with other institutions; (v) deteriorated infrastructure and lack of facilities for field research; (vi)
lack of necessary equipment; and (vii) lack of a performance evaluation system. The NSA advisory group
recommended the preparation of a strategic plan by each center to help inform the objectives of a science
centers project. The strategic plans were completed in 1994 and were integrated, as recommended, into the
project design.
The Science Centers/Emergency Assistance operations were designed to: (a) strengthen institutional
management and administrative functions; (b) support the renovation and expansion of research
infrastructure and equipment; (c) increase human resource capacity in scientific research and education;
(d) disseminate research results; (e) provide technical assistance in science and dissemination management;
(f) provide support to the project implementation unit; and (g) support key policy studies and plans at
MPEG.
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
3.5.1 Overall
The objectives of both projects were sound and consistent with the general objectives of the Pilot Program
to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest and, consequently, with the region's overall conservation and
sustainable development aims, insofar as they responded to the most pressing needs of the Amazonian
research sector. The project design was simple and straightforward. With two distinct components under
the Phase I project, in addition to the infrastructural support provided under the Emergency Assistance
project, it addressed the urgent need for rehabilitating and upgrading the research capacity of the two major
Amazonian research institutes, and introduced an innovation to the region's research environment - namely,
a competitive scheme for financing research projects which aimed to (i) direct research incentives to a
pre-established, limited list of crucial, relevant themes, and (ii) encourage the participation of all regional
tesearch entities.
-3 -



While project objectives and the technical strategy were sound, the project administrative and financing
arrangements were less adequately designed. Complex disbursement arrangements hampered project
implementation performance. Furthermore, the limitations of the internal bureaucracy of FINEP (the
financial management entity for both projects), as well as the inexperience of local disbursement agencies,
should have been more carefully evaluated during project preparation.
Considering that the Government's contribution to the project was limited, the initial threshold of the
Special Accounts set up under the projects (US$500,000) eventually was deemed to be insufficient.
Although the Bank raised the thresholds two times, ultimately to US$1.3 million (RFT-021949) and
US$1.0 million (CEC-21948), respectively, this did not fully resolve the project's slow disbursements. In
addition, the financial management constraints were further addressed at mid-term through simplification of
the fund-transfer arrangements and the creation of an adequately staffed and trained autonomous financial
management structure within FINEP, which subsequently improved implementation performance.
3.5.2 Directed Research Component
The objectives of the Directed Research component coincided with overall Phase I project objectives. The
strategy adopted for selecting, financing, and monitoring the directed research projects was rational,
innovative, straightforward and effective. It sought to ensure the funding of projects that effectively
addressed the priority problems identified by a wide range of regional stakeholders, including technology
users, scientists and policy makers. By channeling project funds to a limited list of eligible research
priorities, the project intended to optimize the use of funds and prevent their pulverization into activities of
lesser importance.
The establishment of a competitive basis for financing the research program aimed to ensure support for
the best proposals and encourage the development of regional research capacity by targeting regional
institutions. The Directed Research component also provided for the development of well-defined selection
criteria and monitoring and evaluation plans by specialized Evaluation Commissions (ECs) composed of
internationally respected scientists to ensure both the judicious selection of subprojects and effective
implementation quality control according to project objectives. Responsibility for overall assessment and
monitoring of Directed Research subprojects was given to the International Scientific Advisory Group
(GIAC), composed of top scientists who would monitor subproject implementation progress through annual
interfacing with the ECs, interviews with the execution teams and visits to subproject sites.
The strategy for generating relevant research outputs was sound. However, the dissemination strategy was
less adequate, despite the allocation of Directed Research financing for publication of the expected results
and technologies to be generated by the subprojects. The strategy provided for the dissemination of
research results to the scientific community, the government, and large-scale producers such as the big
sawmills. It did not, however, seek to facilitate the dissemination of information on new technologies to
small producers, which would have required a targeted knowledge and technology transfer strategy that
was not included in the project. The project lacked a stated commitment to farmers and forest users
scattered throughout the Amazon region who could have benefited from any innovative technologies
generated by the project.
3.5.3 Science Centers/Emergency Assistance
The Science Centers component under the Phase I project and the Emergency Assistance project aimed to
strengthen and improve the research capacity of INPA and MPEG, whose efficiency in generating basic
and strategic research would to a large extent determine the efficacy of the Amazonian research network at
- 4 -



large. The design of both operations was adequate. It aimed to optimize the two institutions as Centers of
Excellence through: (i) targeted investments in infrastructure; (ii) the introduction of structural adjustments
with the intensification of strategic planning; (iii) a renewed emphasis on interdisciplinary and
inter-institutional research approaches; (iv) the improvement of dissemination and fund-raising functions;
(v) the introduction of staff improvement and performance evaluation schemes; (vi) and the improvement of
relevant administrative procedures.
While the design of these operations was generally satisfactory, it underestimated the difficulties and
challenges involved in the implementation of an effective institutional and staff performance evaluation
system and an aggressive fund-raising scheme under the current legal framework goveming both
institutions, which limits their capacity to promote or dismiss employees according to performance, and
restricts their financial management autonomy.
3.5.4 Organizational Arrangements
MCT's Secretariat for Scientific Development acted as the Technical Secretariat (TS) of the projects. The
TS was to be responsible for overall project execution and management, working in close coordination with
FINEP, the project's Financing Agency. The main task of the TS was to ensure interaction between
FINEP, the coordinators of the project components, and the project assessment and advisory groups.
FINEP was responsible for financial management and accounting, including the processing of timely
disbursements to executing agencies according to Annual Work Plans and agreed timetables. FINEP was
also responsible for the analysis and contracting of Directed Research subprojects and for assisting with
local subproject management. Project Implementation Units (PIUs) were also established at each Science
Center to manage and monitor the implementation of the Science Centers component and Emergency
Assistance project.
In addition, project advisory groups were established to assist the TS with defining relevant policies,
formulating implementation plans, and analyzing Directed Research proposals, as well as defining the
project monitoring and evaluation plan. These groups included CORPAM, the International Scientific
Advisory Group (GIAC) and the Directed Research Evaluation Commissions (ECs).
CORPAM assisted the TS with defining the general norms of the project and the research priorities to be
adopted. GIAC. was created to carry out independent scientific evaluations of the project, while the ECs
were mainly responsible for selection and implementation quality control of Directed Research subprojects.
While the project implementation arrangements were logical in their design, they did not sufficiently
compensate for the institutional weaknesses of FINEP and the two Science Centers, which contributed to
funding delays and the generally slow pace of project execution. However, project implementation
improved significantly after the Mid-Term Review.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall the Phase I and Emergency Assistance projects achieved the main objectives. The projects helped to
revitalize the research activities in the Amazon, hampered since the late 1980's by funding and personnel
constraints. Through support for directed research, the Phase I project also helped to expand scientific
knowledge of the region's natural resources, assess the impact of human interventions on the region, and
open new opportunities for the sustainable management of Amazonian plants and animals. It is expected
- 5 -



that these results will contribute to improved development and preservation strategies for the Amazon. The
Phase I and Emergency Assistance projects also contributed to an expanded and improved research
capacity at the two major Amazon research institutions through support for critical infrastructure
improvements, the introduction of strategic planning schemes, the training of researchers, and the
dissemination of research results.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 Directed Research
Twenty three research projects were selected from 116 applications under the first call for proposals,
published in January 1995. Only projects under the first call for proposals are considered in this ICR; projects
under the second call were done under a separate, bi]ateral EC-FINEP project in which the Bank did not
participate. The call and selection procedures were transparent and followed the rules established by the
project. The great majority (70%) of the 23 selected projects were classified under the sustainable natural
resources management priority line, indicating the relevance of this theme among the priority Amazonian
issues as defined under this component. Eight projects (35%) were listed under the Amazonian ecosystems
group, six of which were double-classified with the previous group; and four (17%) corresponded to the
socioeconomic and cultural systems group, There were no proposals under the low environmental impact
infrastructure category.
Directed Research subproject executors included INPA, the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation
(EMBRAPA), the National Institute for Space Research (INPE), and the Brazilian Cocoa Development
Agency (CEPLAC), along with other Amazonian institutions -- mainly universities and one NGO. About
26 regional institutions, 17 national agencies from other states, and nine intemational institutions
participated in the implementation of the projects, indicating a strong inter-institutional and
interdisciplinary integration. In addition, 51 national and 26 international institutions cooperated with the
subproject executing institutions, indicating both a world-wide interest in Amazonian issues as well as an
evident effort towards multi-institutional cooperation.
The majority of the subprojects (14) produced results or partial results, while most of the remaining
projects reporting no results were mainly long-term projects needing further research before reliable
conclusions could be drawn. The Directed Research subprojects also contributed to the introduction of
innovative methodological techniques for wider use in Amazon research activities. (See Annexes 10-13 for
more detailed information.)
There were a number of technical difficulties in relation to the directed research subproject selection
process. Because of insufficient information and guidance to the candidates about the selection procedures
during the proposal preparation phase, as well as some rigidity during the screening phase, a number of
excellent, otherwise eligible proposals were rejected. Moreover, the proposal format adopted under the
project led to unnecessarily long and detailed proposals, requiring excess work by both proposers and
reviewers. The call for proposals also tended to prioritize and encourage the financing of already
established, successful projects, so that most of the selected proposals involved ongoing, long-term research
projects. As a result, only a few projects involved original research initiated with PPG-7 support. In
addition, the thematic emphasis of the first call for proposals was subject to some criticism by, among
others, the International Advisory Group of the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest, which
held that the demand for knowledge by other components of the Pilot Program should have been given more
priority.
-6 -



Implementation problems included funding delays, and irregular performance by some execution teams,
resulting from coordination problems and the low commitment of executing staff, which jeopardized the
implementation and, occasionally, the very scope, of some subprojects. Other subprojects were affected by
climatic events and, in one case, by the partial destruction of a research trial by fire. In these cases, most of
the previous work was lost, and in the case of agricultural and agroforestry projects, the trials had to be
re-started from scratch. Overall, eight projects had fully satisfactory implementation performance, while in
the remaining 15 projects the performance was uneven or deficient.
4.2.2  Science Centers/Emergency Assistance
Both Science Centers endeavored to implement the project objectives and targets under the Phase I and
Emergency Assistance projects. The main achievements were:
(a)    Improved management: (i) the restructuring and prioritization of research programs; (ii) definition
of strategic objectives of the Science Centers; and (iii) introduction of competitive fund allocation systems
to support research projects within each institution. These improvements resulted in more rational research
management performance and contributed to an increased execution efficiency.
(b)    Infrastructure and equipment expansion and rehabilitation: (i) improvement of the hydraulic,
electric, sanitary and fire-control systems; (ii) upgrading of the libraries and collection storage facilities;
(iii) establishment of modem computer networks; and (iv) expansion and improvement of laboratories and
offices. Overall, the infrastructure improvements financed under the Phase I and Emergency Assistance
projects had an energizing effect on the centers' staff and contributed to an improved working environment.
(c)    Human resources upgrading. Staff training and staff participation in congresses and seminars
had been neglected over most of the 1980s and 1990's, mainly as a result of reduced funding. Training of
staff at both institutions was clearly revitalized under the Phase I project. The number of PhDs was raised
by 34% at INPA and by 54% at MPEG, while, at project completion, most of the remaining research staff
of both institutes were registered in graduate courses. The participation of the researchers in national and
international scientific congresses was significantly expanded, and the post-graduate program for non-staff
researchers given by both Centers was considerably increased. Both Centers failed, however, to establish
effective staff and institutional performance evaluation systems, as envisioned under the project.
(d)    Dissemination of research results. The achievements of this activity under the Phase I project
was remarkable in both institutes. Besides the updating of the publication of their traditional scientific
bulletins, largely neglected over the previous decade for lack of funds, both centers invested in a number of
dissemination activities, such as the publication of books, folders, videos, media material, and the
organization of a number of events aimed at the general public as well as scientists, students and children.
Nevertheless, dissemination activities appear to be targeting a relatively limited audience, mainly scientists
and other specialized audiences, because neither of the two centers apparently view as part of their central
missions the extension and technology transfer activities so lacking in the region.
(e)    Scientific collections. Infrastructural improvements under the Phase I and Emergency Assistance
projects were essential to the preservation of the various scientific collections at INPA and MPEG. Both
centers also expanded their collections, and modernized and computerized their management.
(f)    Inter-institutional cooperation. While much more could have been achieved in this area, both
INPA and MPEG expanded their cooperation with national and international institutions during Phase I
project implementation. As a result, a number of important research activities were carried out with the
- 7 -



technical and financial support of research institutions, universities, governmental entities, private
companies, NGOs, and others.
Strategic Planning. The Centers endeavored to implement the improvements proposed in the 1994 SP
guidelines, whose overall objectives were to define and establish: (i) general institutional guidelines; (ii)
broad thematic areas of research; and (iii) administrative and institutional mechanisms to transform the
institutions into Centers of Excellence. Both Centers were unable, however, to establish an ongoing
analysis of research priorities, potential benefits and targeted clients. With the continued absence of such
analysis, it remains unclear how research resources are allocated among the various organizational levels.
4.2.3 Project Organization and Management
Project coordination
The Technical Secretariat was composed of a Technical Secretary and a number of assistants. Its main
activities included: (i) the organization and dissemination of project-related statistical and managerial
information; (ii) coordination of project monitoring and evaluation; (iii) organization of advisory groups for
the selection of research proposals; (iv) supervision of the budgetary analysis of the proposals; and (v)
supervision of physical and financial monitoring and follow-up on the implementation of project
components. The TS also produced annual implementation reports and the project completion report.
The performance of the TS was mixed. It played an important role in addressing financial management
issues together with FINEP. The TS also organized successful seminars for the discussion of project
implementation progress and problems. The TS did not, however, organize regular annual meetings of the
International Scientific Advisory Group (GIAC) as well as follow-up visits by the Directed Research
Evaluation Committees (ECs), as foreseen by the project, except towards the end of the project. The TS
reporting performance was deficient, as was its performance in establishing appropriate physical/financial
performance indicators and project impact indicators.
Local management
Each Science Center created an internal Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to manage and monitor the
implementation of the Science Centers component and Emergency Assistance project. Each PIU was
assisted by a foundation -- the Djalma Batista Foundation (FDB) in the case of INPA, and the University
of Para Foundation assisting MPEG. The implementation of the Directed Research subprojects was
coordinated by the TS directly.
The performance of both PIUs was less than satisfactory. The performance of INPA's PIU was especially
compromised by the performance of the FDB, which lacked the necessary administrative and financial
management capacity to manage project funds. The University of Para Foundation, on the other hand,
functioned somewhat better in assisting MPEG's PIU.
Financial management
FINEP's performance was initially below expectations and contributed to continued implementation delays.
While some changes introduced at mid-term significantly improved FINEP's performance, it remained less
than fully satisfactory throughout the project implementation period. At the local level, procurement
processing, fund transfers to PIUs and subproject executors, project accounting and financial reporting,
and the hiring of personnel were all handled by the foundations contracted by the two Science Centers for
- 8 -



this purpose -- one of which functioned satisfactorily, and one which did not. FINEP also did not provide
sustained technical support to local level implementors.
Advisory bodies
Project advisory groups composed of representatives of the TS, FINEP, and the scientific, technological
and private-enterprise communities, made significant contributions to defining relevant policies,
formulating implementation planning, and analyzing Directed Research proposals, as well as defining the
monitoring and evaluation strategy of the project. These groups included the Regional Coordinating
Commission for Research in the Amazon (CORPAM), the International Scientific Advisory Group (GIAC)
and the Directed Research Evaluation Committees (ECs).
CORPAM is an advisory organ of MCT. It assisted the TS in defining the general norms of the Phase I
and Emergency Assistance projects and the research priorities adopted. However, CORPAM did not meet
for several years after project start-up and contributed little to project implementation. MCT is now
developing a new mechanism to deal with the scientific research strategy for the Amazon.
GIAC. The Intemational Scientific Advisory Group (GIAC) was created to carry out independent scientific
evaluations of the projects. The group was composed of five preeminent national and international
scientists. To carry out its mandate, GIAC relied on progress reports; interviews with the TS, FINEP, local
foundations, Science Center directors and Directed Research project coordinators; and direct observations
through field visits.
GIAC was originally expected to meet every year. However, as GIAC's activities were supposed to be
financed with counterpart funds, the shortage of funds was cited by the TS as the reason why the annual
meetings were not held. As a result, GIAC carried out only two evaluations during the life of the project, at
mid-term and completion, both partly financed with Bank supervision funds. The outputs of GIAC's
reviews, while relevant, seemed to reflect operational constraints imposed by the group's Terms of
Reference (which were prepared by the TS but not submitted for the Bank's no objection), as well as time
limitations. The lack of an efficient project monitoring scheme and the absence of a central capacity to
synthesize and consolidate the individual field reports, combined with the late delivery of these reports and
the limited time given to GIAC to assess implementation progress, contributed to the preparation of
incomplete evaluation reports. In particular, while GIAC's assessment of the Science Centers component
and Emergency Assistance was accurate and the implementation problems were generally well identified in
both evaluation reports, the outputs of many Directed Research subprojects, their relevance to the
objectives of the Pilot Program and their potential environmental and socioeconomic impact were not
adequately addressed. Thus, while the institution of an independent evaluation and advisory group was an
important design feature of the Phase I project, the actual impact of GIAC evaluations and
recommendations on project implementation was limited.
ECs. The mandate of the ECs was to analyze and select Directed Research proposals, monitor subproject
execution, and provide the necessary guidance to the implementation teams. Each EC was responsible for
one or more Directed Research subprojects. The ECs were supposed to perform their task through annual
field visits to the projects, accompanied by TS and FINEP members. These field visits, however,
commenced only after mid-term (due in part to delayed start-up of Directed Research projects).
Monitoring and evaluation
Monitoring of project physical and financial implementation was generally adequate in both Science
-9-



Centers. However, performance monitoring was weak. The centers have not internalized the need to
monitor the results of the strategic planning process and to establish baselines from which progress can be
assessed. The same applies to project investments. It appears that no baseline data or markers for
monitoring have been established to monitor the impact of project-financed activities on the quality and
productivity of research, dissemination of research results, integration with other national and international
research institutions, or performance of administrative activities. Moreover, no procedure for evaluating the
impact of the research on clients was ever established.
It must be recognized, however, that in the final implementation phase, MCT made a formidable effort to
compile and synthesize the results of Directed Research subprojects. But due to the lack of adequate
training of the project coordinators, the evaluation guidelines were not uniformly applied. As a result, the
individual subproject evaluation reports were uneven. While some were reasonably complete and included a
valuable, critical implementation analysis that was very useful for GIAC's assessment work, others were
superficial, thus increasing the difficulty of a full assessment of subproject results.
GIAC evaluations identified a series of problems related mainly to Directed Research subproject planning,
execution and coordination, which were not, however, corrected during implementation, indicating that
GIAC's authority was not duly recognized. Legal clauses, or some other mechanism, should be considered
for future operations to strengthen the application of GIAC recommendations. Although the institutions had
taken full responsibility for Directed Research project execution, they generally failed to make the required
implementation follow-up.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The impact of the project on the institutional development of both INPA and MPEG was evident. Their
organizational structure was improved and the research strategy in both centers was rationalized toward
interdisciplinarity. The research projects ceased to be individual operations to become the responsibility of
the institution. This involved a remarkable behavioral change at the level of both researchers and directors.
The administration was computerized and became more efficient. The libraries and the scientific collections
were organized and computerized to facilitate their management and expand their use.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major exogenous factors that affected the implementation performance. The original
threshold level of the Special Account which was later deemed to be insufficient initially contributed to a
slow funding flow. This was corrected upon Bank's identification of the problem.
The Asian/Russian economic crisis that deeply affected the Brazilian economy in 1997 and 1998 may have
marginally contributed to a reduced funding flow in the late implementation phase. And the Government's
Real devaluation policy in early 1999 reduced both centers' budgets in real terms.
- 1 0 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The late budget approval each year by the Brazilian Congress and the consequent delay in the transfer of
funds to the executing agencies were serious constraints on the timely implementation of both infrastructure
investments and directed research activities. There is no easy solution to this issue, as public institutions in
Brazil are prohibited by law from holding on to counterpart funds from one year to the next in order to
cover the 4-5 month funding gap experienced at the beginning of every fiscal year.
The Government's budget and personnel policies were determinant constraints on the implementation of
staff expansion and performance evaluation programs in both Science Centers. The current policy also
limited the Centers' autonomy to implement alternative fund-raising schemes. These adverse policies for
both public service in general and the scientific research sector in particular are currently being reviewed
by the Brazilian Congress.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The fund transfer arrangement initially adopted under the project was complex, involving various
intermediary institutions (MMA, MCT, FINEP) and the corresponding need for annually renewed
agreements between these institutions. This was considerably improved at mid-term through the adoption of
direct transfers to FINEP.
The routine delays in Brazilian budget approvals also posed a serious constraint on FINEP's funding
performance. This was reportedly corrected for the second call for research proposals financed by the EC,
using FINEP's private sector financing system, through which the institution uses its own funds charging,
matter-of-factly, the corresponding interests.
FINEP's slow disbursement procedures contributed to delayed implementation early in the project. This
was eventually corrected with the creation within FINEP of a special project managing group composed of
well-trained staff, and the acceleration of the procedures. However, administrative performance at the local
level, particularly at INPA, remained less than fully satisfactory throughout the life of the project.
Inadequate monitoring results were detrimental to the impact evaluation of Directed Research activities.
Similarly, the lack of adequate monitoring schemes within the Science Centers posed a serious constraint to
the achievement of excellence.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs were estimated during appraisal at US$20.1 million, of which US$17.1 million would
be funded from grants and US$3.0 million in Government counterpart financing. The total cost of the
Emergency Assistance project was estimated at US$5.0 million (US$2.5 M from grants and US$2.5 M
from the Treasury). The total cost of Phase I was estimated at US$15.1 million (US$14.6 M from grants
and US$0.5 M from the Government). Actual expenditures totaled the equivalent of US$26.7 million
(133% of the estimates). This was partly due to inflation and exchange rate variations (four distinct
currencies were involved), and, to a great extent, to the higher than expected contribution of the Brazilian
Government, as shown below. The considerably higher than foreseen contribution of the Federal Treasury
(308% of the expected total participation) is a clear indication of the high priority given to the project by
the Government, as shown in the following table:



US$ million equivalent
Source           Appraisal           Actual         % of Appraisal
Emergency
Assistance
USAID                    2.00               2.00              100
RFTF                     0.50               0.50              100
Government               2.50               3.90              156
Sub-total                5.00               6.40              128
Phase I
RFTF                     8.50               8.50              100
CEE                      5.40               5.62              104
ODA                      0.70               0.81              116
Government               0.50               5.33              1,066
Sub-total                15.10             20.26              134
Total Grants             17.10             17.43              102
Total Gov.               3.00               9.23              308
Grand Total              20.10             26.66              133
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project contributed to the sustainability of both Science Centers. Improved infrastructure contributed
to the sustainability of libraries and collections. The implementation of strategic planning, organizing
activities according to a long term research strategy, is an evident sustainability factor. Expanded
dissemination, through publications, seminars, conferences and the general media, leads to the adoption,
and thus to the sustainability, of research results.
Sustainability is likely -- but there are risks. In terms of the sustainability of the Science Centers, a
long-term maintenance plan for the infrastructural improvements is lacking. Also missing is a formal,
committed link with regional extension schemes to ensure the adoption of research results at the small
producer level. This is a serious constraint on the widespread use of research results by the farming and
forest user community and, therefore, a limiting factor to sustainability.
Other major constraints to sustainability are of a legal nature, consisting of government policies over which
the project had no influence. They are, mainly, the current personnel policy, which is responsible for
noncompetitive salaries, limited scope for promotion, and institutional impediments to rewarding
productivity and performance; and budgetary constraints, related to the insufficient Government support
and to the limited administrative autonomy of the institutions.
On the other hand, the future financial sustainability of science and technology investments in the Amazon
region appear to be more promising than ever before due to recent major policy shifts in the Ministry of
Science and Technology (MCT) including the approval of major long-term sectoral and infrastructural
- 12 -



S&T investment programs which for the first time will be allocated in part by percentages to specific
regions of Brazil, with some targeting of the Northeast and Amazon regions.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
An interim bilateral project financed by the European Commission to support a second set of research
projects is currently under implementation. A follow-up Phase 2 project is being proposed by the Brazilian
Government. The project preparation process will depend on the joint definition by the Government, the
Bank and the donors (particularly USAID), of the project's strategy and scope, the integration of lessons
learned from the Phase 1 and Emergency Assistance projects, current needs, funding limitations and donor
preferences.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 Disbursements
The Bank and Donor disbursement performance was generally satisfactory. The Bank responded to the
Recipient's requests aimed at accelerating administrative flows and improving project implementation
performance. With this purpose, the Bank/donors raised the amounts of the Special Accounts when it
became evident that their original size was insufficient, and also made exceptional concessions for the
Recipient's direct contracting of goods and services up to established cost limits. However, sporadic
replenishment delays by the donor agencies sometimes contributed to delayed disbursements.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervisions were regular, usually two per year. The Bank generally detected early emergent
implementation problems and helped the Recipient to find relevant solutions. Bank assessment of the
institutional strengthening problems faced by the Science Centers during implementation were pertinent and
precise. However, the Bank was somewhat slow to take action to solve the Special Account issue, which
was initially addressed in PY2.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank and Donor performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Project preparation performance was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The extended project implementation period (five years instead of two) is an indicator that the
Government's implementation performance was problematic. A case could be made that the originally
planned implementation period was too short, especially in light of the complexity of implementation
arrangements. But a longer project cycle would have done little to change the slow execution pace caused
by the aforementioned bottlenecks in financial flow related to FINEP's slow disbursement performance and
local financial management deficiencies.
- 13-



Slow disbursements contributed to delayed start-up of the Directed Research component. Although
FINEP's performance improved after mid-term, the accumulated delays and the local administrative
deficiencies contributed to the need for various project extensions. F1NEP was also slow in complying with
the submission of reports, work plans and studies agreed with the Bank.
MMA, which had the overall responsibility for the Pilot Program and the Science Subprogram, had a
satisfactory perfornance in the funding process. Following MMA's initiative, the originally complicated
fund transfer scheme was simplified. However, MMA's interest in project monitoring and research results
was below the level expected from a particularly concerned major partner.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
MCT. MCT's project management performnance was initially hampered by the financing scheme, which
the TS eventually managed to satisfactorily improve. The TS successfully organized and coordinated a
mid-term and a completion seminar with participation of all stakeholders, to discuss project implementation
achievements and problems. The TS satisfactorily coordinated GIAC's mid-term and final evaluation
missions. However, MCT did not organize the foreseen annual meetings for GIAC or the ECs, nor was it
able to act upon GIAC's mid-term recommendations. The TS was also unable to establish appropriate
implementation performance indicators for project monitoring and evaluation, and did not effectively
supervise the timely delivery or quality of project implementation reports by the Science Centers and
subproject executors. The TS itself was slow in reporting and in initiating preparation of the agreed Phase
2 project. Its performance in attracting new funds to the subprogram as well as in getting consensus about
needed future activities was also below expectations.
FINEP. FINEP's performance was initially deficient, due both to the financing scheme and to the agency's
internal difficulties, which negatively affected the project's implementation pace. FINEP's effectiveness
considerably improved after mid-term, when the detected deficiencies were satisfactorily corrected.
However, FINEP did not adequately assist the local management entities with their procurement
difficulties.
Science Centers. Both INPA and MPEG successfully achieved the planned foreseen infrastructure and
equipment upgrades/rehabilitation/upgrading investments. Both centers did not, however, set up a
long-term maintenance plan for the rehabilitated infrastructure. If this gap is not urgently corrected, the
sustainability of the project-financed investments will be at risk.
The slower than foreseen implementation pace of Science Center activities was due mainly to the irregular
disbursement performance, aggravated by deficiencies of the PIUs. The functioning of the PIU at INPA
was largely unsatisfactory, while the PIU at MPEG performed better.
In general, both Centers made considerable progress with the implementation of their respective strategic
planning guidelines. Any deficiencies in the achievement of certain key aspects of the Centers' institutional
development schemes, however, can be attributed to externally placed legal and administrative constraints,
not easily overcome. In particular, both institutes could not implement a satisfactory staff performance
evaluation system, thus limiting their overall scope for excellence. Also due to their limited administrative
autonomy, the Centers' fund-raising capacity is still limited, although significant progress has been made in
this direction.
Advisory bodies. CORPAM, after playing a significant role in the definition of the project's research
priorities, participated little in actual project implementation. GIAC produced two very useful evaluation
- 14 -



reports, but its recommendations were never really addressed. The effectiveness of both GIAC and the ECs
was hampered by their limited access to project performance on the ground, since the annual evaluations
foreseen in the project design report were not carried out due to counterpart funding limitations.
Furthermore, a uniforn evaluation of the Directed Research subprojects was hindered by the lack of a
well-defined monitoring scheme.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
While the project ultimately achieved its main development objectives, an overall rating of unsatisfactory
for Recipient performance has been given, due to management deficiencies at various levels that
contributed to a slow implementation pace. Moreover, legal constraints and related government policies
contributed to limited progress in terms of staff performance evaluation and the development of an effective
fund-raising capacity.
8. Lessons Learned
Financing scheme
*      The irregular funding flow resulting from federal budget management constraints and the complex
fund transfer procedures adopted by the project negatively affected the implementation of both the research
projects and the Science Centers' construction schedule. As funding delays may cause irrecoverable losses
to some research projects, the programmed financing timetable must be respected to meet the biological
cycle constraints of crops, animals and forest-related trials.
*      Budget-management rules and FINEP's own operational structure were designed to deal with
external loans, but not with grants. Therefore, when project funding schemes differ from normal financing
rules, they must be carefully planned, and executing officers trained accordingly before project
effectiveness, to avoid funding delays.
*      Some of FINEP's financial intermediary arrangements, such as those restricting the currency of
payment of international vendors to Reais, were incompatible with efficient implementation. A solution to
this impasse and other identified restrictions must be established in a possible future operation.
Directed Research
*      The calls for competitive research funding were based on very broad thematic lines. This led to a
wide range of thematic proposals distributed over a limited number of projects with a consequent diluted
impact. Eligibility criteria should therefore be more strict to encourage concentration and ensure solutions
to very precise problems.
*      The first call for proposals, which was financed under the Phase I project, lacked integration and
synergy with the Pilot Program as a whole. Mechanisms should be included in future directed research
projects to make them more responsive to demand and help identify opportunities for greater synergy with
program objectives.
*      Misunderstandings about the presentation of research proposal budgets appears to have led to the
rejection of proposals which may have been of good technical quality. Better clarification should be given
to proposers on exactly what is expected from the proposer and how proposals are rated. A description of
selection criteria and any weighted point system used in the evaluation of proposals should also be
- 15 -



presented. In addition, the proposers should have access, through telephone or e-mail, to further assistance
during project preparation. Detailed feedback should be provided upon request in cases of proposal
rejection.
*      The sheer bulk of proposals - about 100 pages each for 116 proposals - made both preparation
and review an onerous process. The detailed proposal should be more closely specified, in terms of a
shorter and more precise proposal of a maximum of 15 pages.
*      In most cases, it was not possible to detect whether the research proposal was innovative, built on
results of previous research, a continuation of an existing project, or just a repetition of previous
experimental work. It is therefore important that the call for proposals describe the state of the art in terms
of scientific knowledge for each theme, identifying the most important gaps in information needing research
and those eligible for project support. In turn, each proposal should include a brief examination of the state
of the art of its particular area of concentration, identifying the relevant information gap to be addressed by
the proposed intervention. The relation of the financed projects with accumulated knowledge, with regional
research objectives, and with ongoing research in the Amazon should be clear and visible.
*      In general, the research proposals did not identify the possible users of the scientific knowledge to
be generated. Each proposal should include a description of the expected results and their respective area of
application, identifying the prospective users and possible information dissemination strategies.
*      During implementation of Directed Research subprojects, it was observed that a number of
changes in the subproject execution teams, including the replacement of project coordinators, were
undertaken. This appears to indicate an artificial composition of the teams, as well as a lack of institutional
and personal commitment to the projects. In future operations, coordinator replacement requests should be
well-founded and justified, and should be thoroughly analyzed by MCT.
*      The evaluation of the performance and impact of the research projects was hampered by the
absence of pre-established performance and impact indicators. In future operations, each project proposal
should include a detailed monitoring and evaluation plan, including the identification of adequate
performance and impact indicators, as well as a post-project monitoring scheme, since the impact of
scientific research, especially in relation to biodiversity conservation or natural resource management, can
generally be measured only in the long run. Such a scheme should be capable of evaluating, over an
adequate period of time, the impact of the research results on the environment and the sustainable use of
Amazon resources.
*      Low per diems discouraged researchers to carry out field work, in detriment to research quality.
Per diems should be adjusted to encourage researchers to make the necessary field control. Mechanisms for
increasing the proportion of researchers' salaries eligible for financing to ensure the inclusion of NGOs,
private institutions, and autonomous researchers (affiliated or not with institutions) would be desirable.
GIAC
*      GIAC's assessment reports, while very useful, did not follow an established M&E framework,
lacked uniformity and were incomplete. In future operations, assessment reports should follow clear M&E
guidelines. Directed Research project coordinators should receive M&E training to ensure consistent
application of performance and impact indicators, which would permit comparison among the projects, and
facilitate independent assessment of Directed Research performance. Any future operation must also ensure
- 16 -



that adequate funding is available so that entities responsible for M&E are able to meet on a regular basis.
*      GIAC evaluations identified a series of project implementation problems, which were not, however,
corrected during implementation, indicating that GIAC's authority was not duly recognized. Future
operations should include legal clauses, or some other mechanism, to reinforce the application of
recommendations made by independent evaluators during project implementation. It is also recommended
that, in order to optimize its independence, any future GIAC should be composed only of scientists who do
not belong to any project beneficiary institution.
Strategic planning
*      It is impossible to rationally allocate resources within and between the various organizational
levels, in the continued absence of ongoing analyses of research priorities, timing/costs, potential benefits,
and potential clients. A fiuture operation should, therefore, revive the strategic planning exercise initiated in
1993-94 and support a continued participatory strategic planning process for interaction among
stakeholders, as a key activity towards excellence. The permnanent assistance of external expertise might be
desirable, to ensure continuity and the correct application of the strategic planning methodology.
*      Neither Science Center seems to have filly recognized that the nature and size of future external
support may be conditioned on the ability to present rational arguments, in terms of benefits from solutions
of the priority problems of identified clients. Therefore, the analysis of potential and actual institutional
roles must be completed, as well as the identification of clients, their priority problems in the management
of the region's natural resources, and the specific institutional response to priority problems.
Inter-institutional cooperation and scientific exchange
*      Inter-institutional approaches to problem solving should be encouraged, with distribution of
problems to the most appropriate institution or group of organizations. Demands for research should not be
ignored because they are beyond current capacity or mandate.
*      Currently, there appear to be mixed cooperation types, ranging from foreign groups who treat the
Science Centers as a stage rather than a partner, to individual foreign projects that provide significant
contributions to the institutes, from one-time infrastructural improvements to ongoing support for
peer-review-driven research. The Centers must endeavor to coordinate foreign cooperation agreements
toward partnerships that are advantageous to the Amazon.
Staff performance evaluation
*      The attempts of both INPA and Goeldi to introduce staff evaluation schemes to improve research
performance under the project were frustrated by the lack of motivation of the researchers to accept being
evaluated. Legal restrictions that prevent performance-based reward or sanctions of civil servants render
staff performance evaluations ineffective. Personnel incentives for improved research activity will be scarce
so long as the outlook for promotion is poor and productivity-based salary supplements are non- existent.
An improved personnel policy at the Science Centers will depend on either changing the law that governs
public institutions or changing the juridical status of the Centers to give them the necessary autonomy to
establish their own personnel policies.
- 17 -



Training
*      As there have been problems which jeopardized the best use of international training events, it is
recommended that, in the future, staff sent overseas should be fluent in the dominant language of the
training country. Moreover, staff should have qualifications and experience sufficient to make use of the
opportunities.
*      To optimize staff experience in training events, their back-to-office reports should identify the
aspects which were of most value and explain how the ideas/techniques will be incorporated into
current/future research at their institution.
*      Staff should be encouraged to develop links with professional societies, participate in relevant
technical conferences and training opportunities in Latin American countries. This would contribute to an
increased national and international visibility of both INPA and MPEG.
Graduate courses
*      Most of the hundreds of persons educated at INPA and MPEG in MSc and PhD courses are
reported to be still working in the Amazon. It would be useful to follow-up on their activities and organize
relevant refresher training courses.
*      Low per diem rates have discouraged fieldwork of trainees, with negative effects on the graduate
program. Realistic per diems would contribute to optimized results.
*      It would be better to involve students to fill staff gaps in high-priority projects rather than create
little empires of low-priority research. Departmental plans should provide the rationale for increasing the
numbers of postgraduate students, and indicate the priority ranking of research lines and projects to which
students might be attached.
Fund-raising
While substantial progress has been made, overall fund-raising efforts foreseen under the project were
limited in both centers, and results were below expectations. In general, the fund-raising capacity of public
institutions has been very limited in Brazil. Semi-autonomous, administratively more flexible institutions
such as EMBRAPA have been more aggressive and successful in establishing financing and cooperation
schemes with a great variety of public and private, national and international institutions. This has
contributed to overall improved and diversified research performance, and to the enhanced efficiency and
competitiveness of these institutions. It appears that, as mentioned above, for the Centers to become
modern, entrepreneurial institutions, either the current law has to be changed giving the institutions more
flexibility and autonomy, or the Centers have to change their juridical status.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(Note: The Govermnent's 39-page project completion report (submitted in August 2000) is in the project files.
The report, which does not include an executive summary, provides an overview of project outputs.)
A draft ICR was circulated for Government review on December 1, 2000. MCT comments on the draft are
sunmmarized below.



*      Section 3.3.1: The limited size of the Special Account was due primarily to the Banks guidelines
on the size of Authorized Allocations to the Special Account, and not to the limited size of Government
contributions to the project.
*      Section 3.3.2: The assertion that the projects lacked a stated commitment to farmer and forest
users is not entirely accurate, since small farmers played an active role in some Directed Research
subprojects, which also produced pamphlets for the dissemination of information.
*      Section 4.3.4: The GIAC could not meet more frequently due to scheduling problems of the
individual members, and not due to the lack of Government funding.
*      Section 9.2.3: Annual meetings of the Evaluation Committees under the Directed Research
component were not foreseen by the original project design.
*      Section 10: The problem of the "sheer bulk" of Directed Research proposals making both
"preparation and review an onerous process" was addressed during the second call for proposals funded
bilaterally by the EC, when the size of the proposals was reduced and managed electronically by MCT.
*      Section 10: The absence of pre-established performance and impact indicators was also addressed
during the EC-funded second call for proposals.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The following paragraphs constitute a synthesis of the comments and recommendations of participating
researchers, NGO representatives, Pilot Program representatives, donors and other stakeholders in two
seminars held respectively in June and December 1999, on the project results. They express their positive
opinion on the project and their concern for an improved implementation performance in possible future
operations.
Comments
*      The project was fundamental for the development of scientific activity in the Amazon.
*      The research themes were appropriate, the selection system transparent, the development strategy
adequate, and the amount of resources were satisfactory.
*      As a result of the project, INPA and MPEG were able to raise additional resources, through
agreements with national and international partners, to match with project funds.
*      Project monitoring was important. Thanks to monitoring, a number of implementation problems
and constraints were detected and could, therefore, be timely corrected.
Recommendations
*      Socioeconomic research under the project was insufficient and should, therefore, be expanded.
- 19-



*      Administrative and financial procedures must be considerably improved and simplified.
*      The monitoring system must be improved, to identify bottlenecks as well as implementation
performance, results and impacts.
*      Efforts should be made to improve and intensify the integration of PPG7-supported research with
the other research activities in the Amazon.
*      Research projects should reflect more effectively the local and regional needs and demands.
*      Research projects should more explicitly take into account the accumulated knowledge, results of
past research and the existing data-base on the Amazon.
*      Research results should be made easily accessible to the final users.
*      More emphasis should be put on participatory, interdisciplinary and inter-institutional research
projects.
*      Dissemination of the results should be included in the research proposals; if needed, additional
funds should be considered for this activity.
*      The financing of research projects should include support to young researchers and students,
through integrated scholarship programs, which could be accredited as counterpart funds.
*      Emphasis should be put on institutional investments leading to institutional and financial
sustainability of the research centers in general, and to INPA and MPEG in particular.
*      An ex-post evaluation of the project is essential before planning a follow-up project.
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
I. Science Centers
A. Performance Indicators
1. Institutional Development
*    Organizational restructuring                     *    Unsatisfactory
*    Introduction of Internal rules                   *    Satisfactory
*    Creation of Research Councils                    *    Satisfactory
*    International projects                           *    Satisfactory
*    Introduction of research matrix                  *    Satisfactory
*    Introduction of research agenda                  *    Satisfactory
*    Commitment to users                              *    Satisfactory
*    Thematic laboratories                            *    Satisfactory
*    Internal competition                             *    Satisfactory
*    Decentralization                                 *   Unsatisfactory
*    Computerization                                  *    Satisfactory
*    Improvement Scientific Collections               *   Highly satisfactory
*    Administrative procedures                        *    Unsatisfactory
*    Inter-institutional cooperation                  *    Satisfactory
*    Diversification of funding sources               *    Satisfactory
*    Strategic planning                               *    Unsatisfactory
2. Construction/upgrading of works
*    Target-achievement and quality                   *    Satisfactory
*    Execution Timetable                              *    Satisfactory
*    Maintenance Plans                                *    Unsatisfactory
3. Human Resources Strengthening
*    Staff training                                   *    Satisfactory
*    Graduate courses                                 *    Satisfactory
*    Staff expansion                                  *    Unsatisfactory
*    Staff performance evaluation                     *    Unsatisfactory
4. Dissemination
*    To public                                        *    Satisfactory
*    To end-users                                     *    Unsatisfactory
B. Result Indicators
*    Improved research performance                    *    Satisfactory
*    Improved dissemination                           *    Satisfactory
*    Improved interdisciplinarity                     *    Satisfactory
*    Improved inter-institutionality                  *    Satisfactory
*    Increased budget                                 *    Satisfactory
C. Impact Indicators                                  *    Not evaluated, as impact indicators
were never developed by recipient
II. Directed Research Projects
A. Performance Indicators
*    Execution performance                            *    Satisfactory
*    Monitoring and reporting                         *    Unsatisfactory
*    Dissemination                                    *    Unsatisfactory
B. Result Indicators                                  *    Partial results
C. Impact Indicators                                  *    Not evaluated, as impact indicators
were never developed by recipient
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a. Project Costs by Component.
Appraisal Estimates and Actual, Including Contingencies.
(US$ ,000 equivalent)
Actual         Percentage
Project Component      Appraisal Estimate  Estimate       of Appraisal
(%)
Directed Research                5,400           5,600            104
Science Centers
-Emergency Assistance            5,000          6,400             128
-Phase 1                          9,700         14,660            150
Total                            20,100         26,660            132
Annex 2b. Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement
(US$ ,000 equivalent)
Expenditure           Procurement Method                 Procurement Method
Categories            App aisal Estimate                     Actual **
ICB    NCB    Other   NBF    Total  ICB   NCB    0th.   NBF    Total
1. Works       _      1,440  2,459         3,899
2. Goods       1,342 3,287   2,250   452   7,331
3. Services     _            2,302   737   3,039
4. Misc.*     I__           15,820         5,820
Total          1,342  4,727  12,831  1,189 20,089
*Includes Directed Research subproject contracts, administrative expenses and financial agent fee
**MCT/FIN1EP were responsible for maintaining complete procurement records, but the relevant
information was never sent to the Bank for inclusion in Annex 2b of the ICR.
Annex 2c. Project Financing by Component
(in US$ ,000 equivalent)
Component       Appx aisal Estimate     Actual Estimate     Percent ge of Ap praisal
__._  Donors  Gov.   Total Donors    Gov.   Total Donors    Gov.   Total
Directed        5,400    0     5,400   5,620     0     5,620    104            104
Research
Science Centers
-Emergency      2,500   2,500  5,000   2,500   3,900   6,400    100    156     100
-Phase 1        9,200   500    9,700   9,310   5,330  14,640    101    1,066   151
-Sub-total     11,700   3,000  14,700  11,810  9,230  21,040    101    308     143
Total          17,100   3,000 120100   17,430  9,230  26,660    102    308     133
- 22 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Bnwnr -
N/A



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/92-2/93          1 (technical  (env'tl science)
discussionsiD
C
6/93                         2   (env'tl science, strategic
planning)
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/93                        8   (env'tl science, legal,
operations, inst'l analysis,
engineering)
Supervision
2/95                         4    (env'tl science, economics,        S             S
engineering)
3/96                         4   (env'tl science)                    S             S
12/96                        5   (env'tl science, engineering,
social science)
4/97                         2    (social science, env'tl science)
9/97 (M I R)                 6   (social science, env'tl science,
operations, financial mgt.)
2/99                         5   (social science, env'tl science,
economics, operations, financial
mgt.)
6/99                         4    (social science, env'tl science,
operations, economics)
ICR
11/00                        I    (inst'l. analysis)                 S             S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
________________ _ __  No. Staff weeks        US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 40                         79.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                      72                        236.2
Supervision                                97                        317.6
ICR                                        33                         75.0
Total                                     242                        708.6
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
* Macro policies                      O H   OSUOM O N * NA
I Sector Policies                     OH    OSUOM     ON    * NA
* Physical                            O H *SUOM       O N O NA
X Financial                           O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
21 Institutional Development          0 H   O SU 0 M  0 N 0 NA
Z Environmental                       O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction             O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
E Gender                        O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
LIi Other (Please specify)      O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
IZ Private sector development         0 H   O SU O M  0 N   0 NA
* Public sector management            0 H O SU *M     0 N   0 NA
D Other (Please specifyJ              O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
N Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
El Overall                                          OHS *S       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
2 Preparation                                       O HS * S     O U   O HU
I Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                0D HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
Z Overall                                           0 HS * S O U O HU
The unsatisfactory rating listed above is due to the project financial management agency's (FINEP)
inadequate performance during most of the project. It should be noted, however, that FINEP's performance
improved significantly after the Mid-Term Evaluation (September 1997).
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Staff Appraisal Report
2.     Loan Agreement
3.     Aide-memoires
4.     Forms 590
5.     Letters to the Government
6.     Back-to-Office Reports
7.     Recipient's Implementation Completion Report
8.     Mid-term Review
9.     Planejamento Estrategico do MPEG. 1994
10.    Planejamento Estrategico do INPA. 1994
11.    Relat6rio Final MPEG. Dezembro 1999
12.    Relat6rio Final INPA. Maio 2000
13.    PPG-7 C&T. Resuitados. Dez. 1999
14.    PPDs. Resultados
15.    Edital
16.    Edital
17.    Relatorio de Finalizacao
- 27 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A
- 28 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
Please see Section 9(c) for the results of two stakeholder workshops held in June and December 1999.
- 29-



Additional Annex 10. List of Directed Research Subprojects
Number                                    Title
6      Evaluation of wild cocoa (Theobroa cacao L.) gernmplasm
2      Data base of aTomatic plants and fruits: oils and scents
3      Information base for the sustainable use of forest resources in Para State
4      Biorhnsical chantes associated with apricultural activities in Westey Amazonia
5         Ecological studies: native forest management, and rehabilitation of degraded
pastures and cTopping areas in Acre State
6      The Ticuna universe: territory, health and envioronment
7_     biEntomology of malaria in Amazonian settlements
8      Characterization of ecosystems in oil palm plantations
9      Biology dynamics of forest fratmentation
14     Environmental idmpacts of agroforestry activities on Amazonian ecosystems, and
sustainable options
l l    Phlebotominae, Triatiminae and Trypanosomatinae: diagnostic and monitoring of
biological diversity and interactions with Amazonian populations
12     Conservation and management of Trichechus inunguis (cow fish) in captivity
l13    Developmen of agricultural technologies adapted to Amazonian conditions
14     Development and evaluation of agroforestry systems for the Amazon
15     Population dynamics and generation of endemic diseases
16     Developrnent of agroforestry systems in Roraima State
1 7    Edapho-climatic zoning for fast-growing forest species in the Amazon
1 8    Conservation and use of Amazon phytogenetic resources
19     Influence of tide pulsing on the ecologic dynamics of floodable armas in the
Amazon
20     Rehabilitation ofdegraded pastures through agroforestry in Western Amazon
21     Advanced geoprocessing technologies for supporting sustainable development in
the Amazon
22     Sequestration of carbon emissions from land use and soil cover changes
23     Energy, water vapor and C02 balance in Central Amazon forest areas
- 30 -



Additional Annex 11. Directed Research Projects, According to the Priorities Identified by
CORPAM
Priority C tegories
Low
Socioeconomic Environmental
Amazonian     Sustainable NR   and Cultural      Impact
Projects      Ecosystems      Management        Systems     Infrastructure
1              x
2                              X
3                              X_            _     __        __
4         _ _    _    _X
32       _   __                X
6                    -                 X -
7                                              X
8              X               X_                              _    _
9              X               X
10                              X
11                                              x
12              X               X
13                              X
14                              X
15 
16 16
18                              X
19             X
20                              X         _  _  _  _  _
21                              x
22             X                X
23              X
Total            8               16              4               0
%              35%             70%             17%            0%
Mixed             6               6               0              0
%              26%             26%             0%              0%
Primary source: PPDs Relat6rio Final
- 31 -



Additional Annex 12. Directed Research Projects. Executing and Cooperating Institutions
Executing Institutions
Cooperating
Project MCT   CNPq INPA    MPEG     EMBRAPA     INP  CEPLAC    Other Institutions  Agencies
E             Rea   Nat'l Int'l Nat'l Int'l
1    _____          P               P(2)              C           P(4) __      3 3
2                    P      C                               P (-)                     1
3      P      P                               P               C         P (1)  5     3
4                                     C                                        3
5               _                                             C    __
6                .P                           -C                        -    2
7                   C                         =              P(2) P(1)         3
8                   C                 P                -                P (1) 1      2
9        _          C         _                              P (1)             1     1
10   P_ =            C_                                        (2) P (2)       1      1
_1   ___            Cc    __                                 P(5) P(3)         2      1
12                   C    _  __-                         _          < P (1) _2
13               .   C -              P                      P (2)             2
14    _              P    ___ __C                                       ___    7
15                                            -                                 1     1
16                                    C   _______                                   __=_
17                                    C       - =   C  = = P(6)P(l)P(1)        3    ____
1 8                  P                C                                               1
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _______   ~~P (1)   _ _   _ _ _ _
19 _          _      C    _                                  P (I) P (1) P (2)  4     2
20          ___     P(3) c___         C             _(1P (               PP(1) P (2)  7 7
21           _   _    P   ___                  C   _             _ P (2)
22                   P    ___                  c C ________                     4     7
23                   P _                       C                   P () P       1     2
Total C   0     0      10     1         5        3       1       5     0    0
Total    1      1     8       1        4        1       0       26   17    9
Total Cooperation                                                               51    26
C = coordination; P = participation
Tle figure in parenthesis indicates: (a) for the specified institutions: the number of participating intra-institutional units, in
addition to the coordinating unit; and (b) for other institutions: the number of participating agencies.
Primary source: PPDs Relat6rio Final
- 32-



Additional Annex 13. Directed Research Indicators
_______       Indicators                Self-Reported Difficulties (5)
Resultsl   Results/
Project    Cost       Co-        Initial         Perfor-   Objec-     Imple-
No.       R$      Financing   Situation  Users  mance      tives     ment.    Impact Financial Admin.       Tech.
(1)        _2             <   (3_ (4)
1       265,000                OK       OK       D        OK                   N        X         X         X
2      265,135     CNPq         OK      OK       S         N         OK       OK         X         X        X
3      261,108    WWW          OK        N       D         N                  OK         X         X        X
4      70,995    Embrapa        OK       N       S        OK                   N         X                  X
5      200,000   Ford Fdn.     OK       OK       D         N         _         E         X        X         X
6      205,880     Funai       OK        N       D         p                  OK         X         X        X
7      156,600   PPI-3190       OK      OK       S         P         OK       OK         N         N        X
8      265,000    Orstom       OK       OK       D        OK         OK        D         X         X        N
9      265,000   Smithson.      N        N       D        OK         OK       OK         X         X        N
10     265,000     CEC          OK       N       D         N                   E         X         X         X
11     319,563   FIOCRUZ        OK       N       S         P         OK        D         X         X         X
CIDEIM
UFRS.
1 2    158,219      .-OK                 N       D      .p           OK        D         X.        X         X_
13_    223,000     INPA         OK       N       D         P         OK        OK        X         X         X
14     265,000                  OK       OK      D         N                    E                  X         X
15     186,484    Municip.      OK       N       D         N                   N         X         X         X
Airao            ._                ._.__
16     100,237                  OK       N       D         N                   OK        N         N         X
17     300;000              _   OK       N       D         N   -               M         X         X
18     210,000    Embrapa   _   OK       N       D         N         OK        OK        x         x         x
19     265,000     INPA         OK       OK      S        OK                   D         X         N         X
M. Planck
SHIFT     _                                               _   _      _          _
20     295,611       -          OK       OK      D          P        OK        OK        X         X         N
21     265,000       -          OK        N       S        OK        OK        OK        N         N         N
22     306,464       -          OK       OK       S        OK        OK        OK        X         X         N
23     300,000    UKTiger        E        E       S        OK        OK         D        X         X         N
LBA      _          _      _                                       _
Total   _                         23       23     23        23         23        23        23       23        23
D                                                15                             5
E                                I__ __   1                        __  _ _     3
M                                        1_  _             9          _3 1               3         5 
OK                               21       9                 8         12        1 l       =__
S                    ___ _ _ _    __             8      _ _  _       __         _
X           =              _        -                                                    20        18        16
(1) Initial situation & Users:  OK  correctly stated in the report; N  not stated; E = incorrectly stated.
(2) Performance:             Implementation performance: S = satisfactory; D = deficient.
(3) Results/Objectives:      Project results vis-a-vis objectives: OK = final results achieved;
P = partial results achieved; N = no results mentioned.
(4) Results/implementation:  Institutional-organizational results achieved as a consequence of project implementation:
OK = correctly stated; = inclusion of results from pre-project accumulated research.
(5) Difficulties:            X = identified; N = not identified difficulties.
Primary source: PPDs - Relat6rio Final
- 33 -



