1  -o
r
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONY
Report No. 12450-BR
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILLAN RAIN FOREST
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
OF THE LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN DEPARTMENT I
TO THE REGIONAL NICE PRESIDENT
ON A PROPOSED GRANT
FROM THE
RAIN FOREST TRUST FUND
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$8.5 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
June 27, 1994
Pilot Program to Conserve the Braziian Rain Fore
Environment and Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regicnal Office   - .
I This document bas a restricted distruion and may be used by recipiens only in the performance of
dwir official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed witku World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 31, 1994)
Currency UJnit             :     Cruzeiro Real
US$1.00                    :     CrR$ 913
CrR$1.00                         US$0.0011
-.R$1 million             :     US$1,100
Currency Unit              :     European Currency Unit (ECU)
US$1.00                    .     ECU 0.892
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS
ABC          Agencia Brasilera de Cooperacao (Brazilian Cooperation
Agency)
CEC          Commission of European Communities
CNPq         Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientffico e
Tecnoldgico (Council for Scientific rind Technological
Development)
COAP         Support Coordination of Priority Programs
CORPAM       Comissao Coordenadora Regional de Pesquisas na AmazOnia
(Regional Commission for Research in the Amazon)
CPATU        Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Trdpico Umido (Research
Center for Agriculture in the Humid Tropics)
CTC          Comite Tecnico Cientffico (Scientific Committee)
DCTEC        Departamento de Cooperacao Tecnica (Department of
Technical Cooperation)
ECs          Evaluation Commissions (Comites Assessores-CAs)
EMBRAPA    Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecudria (Brazilian
Agricultural Research Corporation)
FINEP        Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (Agency for Financing of
Studies and Projects)
FUAP         Formulario Unico de Apresentacio de Propostas (Grant
Application Form)
GEA          Grupo de Avaliaclo do PADCT (Review and Advisory Group)
G-7          Group of Seven
IAG          International Advisory Group
IBAMA        Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais
Renovaveis (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and
Renewable Resources)
IGSM         International Group for Scientific Monitoring
(Grupo Internacional de Acompanhamento Cientffico-GIAC)
INPA         Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazonia (National
Institute for Amazon Research)
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
LIB          Limited International Bidding
MCT          Ministerio de Ciencia e Tecnologia (Ministry of Science and
Technology)
MIS          Management Information System
MMA          Ministerio de Meio Ambiente e da Amazonia Legal (Ministry
of Environment and Legal Amazon)
MPEG         Museu Paraense Emilio Goeldi (Emilio Goeldi Museum of
Para)
MRE          Ministdrio de Relac6es Exteriores (Ministry of Foreign
Relations)
Ths document has a restricted disbution and may be used by recipien only in the peformn  of their
officil duties. Its cons may not othervise be disclosed without World Bank authon7rf



ACRONYMS (cont.)
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
ODA          Overseas Development Administration
PADCT        Programa de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Cientffico e
Tecnoldgico (Support Program for Scientific and
Technological Development)
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PPD          Programa de Pesquisa Dirigida (Directed Research Program)
RHAE         Prograrma de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Humanos em
Areas Estrategicas (Program for Development of Human
Resources in Strategic Areas)
RNP          Rede Nacional de Pesquisa (National Network for Research)
RFI          Rain Forest Trust Fund
SEAIN        Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais (International Affairs
Secretariat)
SECOP        Secretaria de Coordenacao de Programas (Secretary of
Program Coordination)
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
SUDAM        Superintend8ncia do Desenvolvimento da Amaz8nia
(Superintendency for the Development of Amazonia)
TOR          Tern of Reference
TS           Technical Secretarat (Secretaria TdcnicaST)



BRAZIL
PnALT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
TABLE OF CONTENIS
Page No.
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........................  i
L BACKGROUND .1
The Setting .1
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement ..                    5
II. THE PROJECT ..   7
Project Objectives ..                                                7
Project Description ..                                               7
Project Costs and Financing ..                                      11
Project Implementation ..                                           11
Project Sustainability ..                                           15
Rationale for RFT Funding ..                                        16
Environmental Aspects ..                                            16
Project Benefits ..     16
Risks ..                                                            16
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .                           .  18
SCHEDULE A ..   20-21
SCHEDULEB ..   22-23
SCHEDULE C ..  24
(coniue next page)
This repor. is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Brazil in
September-October 1993. Mission members were Claudia Sobrevila (mission leader),
Alberto Ninio (Environmental Lawyer), Alcyone Saliba (Education Speciaist), Ellen
Newfield (information Systems Specialist), Jeffrey Richey (Amazon Ecologist), Ruth
Norris (Institutional Development Specialist), Susanne Renner (Botanist and Museum
Speciaist), Michael Goulding (Amazon Ecologist) and Sergio Dompieri (Architect).
The mission was joined by Eric Stoner (USAID) and Ian Hunter (ODA) who
represented co-financing agencies. Country Department Director, Rainer B.
Steckhan. Division Chief, Kreszentia M. Duer.



IV. TECHNICAL ANNEES      ....................  25
Annex 1:   DESCRIPTION OF THE TWO INSTITUTIONS  26
Annex 2:   DIRECTED RESEARCH COMPONENT - CALL
FOR PROPOSALS.                       30
Annex 3:   SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONAL MANUAL ... 39
Annex 4.   PROGRESS ON IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGIC
PLANNING .                            45
Annex 5:   LONG-TERM STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT OF
THE SCIENCE CENTERS .56
Annex 6:   KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS FOR MONITORING
AND EVALUATION .64
Annex 7:   REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES .. 92
IBRD MAP No. 25520



I
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FORESI
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Grantor:                         Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFM )
Redpient:                        Federative Reput;.c of Brazil
Benciaries:                      Ministry of Science and Technology (MCI)
National Iistitute for Amazon Research
(INPA)
Emilio Goeldi Museum of Para (MPEG)
Research Institutes and Organizations,
Universities and Researchers
Amount:                          US$8.5 million equivalent (RFT)
Terms:                           Grant
Fnancing Plan:
Source                           TOTAL (US$ million equivalent)
Rain Forest Trust Fund (grant)                 8.5
CEC (grant)                                    5.4
United Kingdom (tech. assist.)                 0.7
Brazilian Government                           0.5
Total                                          15.1
Eoonomc lRate of Return:         N/A
Map:                             IBRD No. 25520



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTOR
OF THE LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN DEPARTMENT I
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A GRANT FROM
THE PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and reconnmendation
on a proposed grant from the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RF`) to the Federative
Republic of Prazil for US$8.5 million. The grant would finance a Science Centers
and Directed Research Project-Phase I to promote the generation and dissemination of
scientific knowledge relevant to conservation and sustainable development activities in
the Amazon region. This project is part of the Pilot Program to Conserve the
Brazilian Rain Forest, which is funded by the Group of Seven countries, the European
Union, and the Netherlands, and administered by the World Bank.
I. BACKGROUND
The Setting
2.    The Brazilian Amazon region contains the largest extent of tropical rain forest
in the world and contributes 20% of the global river discharge into the world's
oceans. Brazilian Amazon rain forests are a major carbon store, and their destruction
would occasion the release of greenhouse gases that could affect the global climate.
The rich forest and aquatic ecosystems contain a large share of the world's biological
diversity and, while not fully known, the potential uses of Amazonian naural products
are significant and increasing. Conserving the Amazon rain forest while using its
resources sustainably would provide significant benefits to Brazilians and to the global
community.
3.    Recent economic and demographic charnges in the Amazon region guided by
inadequate technologies are leading to rapidly accelerated land use changes that imply
loss of natural diversity, environmental degradation and the threat of climatic changes.
Ignorance of the likely consequences of non-sustainable production systems for the
environment has contributed to decisions in the past which have led to accelerated
deforestation. Policy-making and investment decisions are constrained where
information is lacking on the economic value of the forest, its products and the
environmental services it provides. Increased investment in priority research in the
Amazon region could improve policy analysis in the public sector and stimulate the
development of less damaging technologies for the private sector to exploit the
region's natural resources. By strengthening the research capability of institutions in
the region and drawing more highly educated individuals into the region, it may also
be possible to elevate the level of public debate on salient policy issues.
4.    The Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forest was initiated at the
request of the Group of Seven (G-7) at the Houston Summit in 1990. Individual
projects are financed by the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RET), which was established by
Resolution 92-2 of the Bank's Executive Directors in March 1992, and by associated
bilateral co-financing (all on grant terms). The Program is intended to support an
integrated set of projects that will contribute to a reduction of the rate of deforestation



2
in the Amazon rain forests while using its resources sustainably. These projects fall
within three broad sub-programs: (i) strengthen the capacity of the public sector to set
and enforce sound environmental policy; (ii) improve management of special protected
areas; and (iii) increase research and the use of environmentally benign technologies
in the Amazon. For the third sub-program, the Brazilian government proposed a
long-term strategy for science and technology activities in the Amazon under the Pilot
Program that is presented in the progress report of the October 1991 World
Bank/Commission of European Communities (CEC) technical mission to Brazil. The
activities under this long-term strategy were estimated at US$48 million, and would be
implemented in separate phases. The present project will support Phase I of this long-
term strategy and constitutes the first commitment under the RFT. As part of this
strategy, the United States and the Brazilian Government are expected to finance a
US$5 million Emergency Assistance for two Science Centers in the Amazon region.
Additional phases could be financed to reacii this strategy as more funds are
committed to the Pilot Program.
5.    Science and Technology Funding. Brazil has a long tradition of giving
attention to the role of science and technology in economic development. Over the
past 25 years, Brazil has developed the largest system of Science and TeIhnology in
Latin America. The country's research and development spending in relation to GNP
is 0.7%. This figure is similar to that of other semi-industrialized countries, although
lower than most industrialized c-untries. In absolute terms, whereas the United States
invests approximately US$121 billion and Japan US$46 billion per year in research
and development, Brazil invests US$3.4 billion. Science research institutions in the
Brazilian Amazon receive US$103 million per year in direct funding from the
Treasury and US$45 million in grant funding through different government grant
agencies. This indicates that science and technology investment in the Amazon is 4%
of the investment for the whole country.
6.    Brazil lags noticeably behind other industrialized countries in human
development. Brazil has fewer scientists and engineers per capita engaged in research
and development than many other developing countries, and the disparity is even
greater in frontier areas such as the Amazon region. In 1989, 2213 scientists and
university professors in the Brazilian Amazon had master's or doctoral degrees
representing only 4.6% of all Brazilian high level researchers. Research expertise and
capacity in the Amazon, must be increased.
7.    Since 1980, development and maintenance of Brazil's capacity in scientific
research has deteriorated due to declining and variable funding and lack of effective
and transparent decision-making in the awarding of scientific research grants. Many
institutions face deteriorating or out-of-date equipment and infrastructure due to this
reduced funding. Libraries and information centers have suffered from budget cuts as
the costs of international journal subscriptions and storage conditions insulated from
the humid climate became prohibitive. Financial support for library resources in the
Amazon region is less available than for Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais.
Support to scientific collect'.ns in museums and research centers is inadequate to store
and study the immense diversity of the Amazon region that includes 30,000 plants,
3,000 fish, 900 bird species, other vertebrates and invertebrates, and human
archeological and anthropological resources. These collections provide the
technological infrastructure that make environmentally sound development feasible.



3
8.    In 1985 tae government initiated the Support Program for Scientific and
Technological Deielopment (PADCT), partly funded by a Bank loan (No. 2489-BR),
to support basic research through a competitive grants program administered by the
Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT) and four science research funding
agencies. In 1990, the Bank approved another loan for a second phase of PADCT
(Loan 3269-BR). Although the second loan includes support for a sub-program on
environmental sciences, because PADCT is national in scope, and Amazonian
research institutions are weak in relation to institutions in the Southeast and South of
Brazil, few PADCT resources have been available for the research needed to improve
natural resources management in the Amazon.
9.    In order to builk _ 'itional scientific capacity, the government supported in
1989 the institutional str.-igthening of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation
(EMBRAPA) as part of a larger agricultural project funded partly by the Bank.
Although the loan inc!udes support for some Amazonian research nuclei of
EMBRAPA such as the Research Center for Agriculture in the Humid Tropics
(CPATU), no resources from ihis loan are available for non-agricultural scientific
institutions in the Amazon. The proposed project would address the need for the
development of scientiflc and technological expertise in the Amazon, and the
strengthering of Amazon research infrastructure.
10.   Strategy for Science and Technology in the Amazon. In 1989, the
government created the Regional Commission for Research in the Amazon
(CORPAM) to provide MCT with general directives and strategies to enhance
scientific and technological development in the Amazon. CORPAM is an independent
commission comprised of representatives from EMBRAPA, the Superintendency for
the Development of Amazonia (SUDAM), the National Institute for Amazon Research
(INPA), the Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), the
Agency for Financing of Studies and Projects (FINEP), the Brazilian Institute for the
Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA), non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), private groups, and universities. In 1991, CORPAM prepared
a Plan for Science and Technology in the Amazon Region. The plan calls for four
major strategies to improve science capacity in the Amazon: (i) recruitment and
retention of qualified staff in the region; (ii) clear definition of research priorities in
the region; (iii) improvement of networking capabilities and enhancement of the flow
of information among research institutions; and (iv) improvement and rehabilitation of
the infrastructure for research. MCT has committed itself to implementing these
strategies in an explicit way: (a) a scholarship program called the Program for
Development of Human Resources in Strategic Areas (RHAE) has allocated a
specified number of scholarships for the Amazon region; (3) MCT has committed
funds for several workshops that have resulted in a series of recommendations about
the research priorities in the Amazon; (c) in August 1992, MCT, through "Portaria"
No. 475, constituted a High-level Commission to develop a strategy to strengthen
INPA; (d) several centers in the Amazon are currently being connected to the National
Network for Research (RNP) which is coordinated by CNPq (e.g. INPA and the
Emilio Goeldi Museum of Para (MPEG)). The present project builds on these
strategies.
11.   Institutional Framework. In 1988, the Amazon region had 22 higher-level
education centers, comprising eight universities and 14 schools or federations. ITe
institutions and universities in the Amazon depend principally on federal funding.



4
Many governmental research institutions in the Amazon have had a short life span,
due to limited funding support from the federal government. During the last decade
the nuumber and influence of non-governmental organizations involved in research,
extension and social and environmental activism has grown in Brazil and in the
Amazon region. For the first time, research is developing outside the preserves of
state and federal institutions. Dependent on short-term funding sources, these
organizations must compete effectively for domestic and foreign funding to survive.
As a result, they tend to be small, with low overhead and a strong project
orientation. The research-oriented NGOs represent a model that combines high
professional standards with the flexibility to adapt to the needs of specific research
projects. They foster inter-institutional collaboration and complement the role of
federal research institutions.
12.   Institutional Reform. In 1992, MCT conmmissioned a study on Science and
Technology Policy in Brazil as part of PADCT II (Loan 3269-BR). The results of the
study, published in October 1993, indicate the need for science development in the
following areas: institutional reform, technology and applied sciences, basic science
and education, international cooperation, information and knowledge dissemination
and goal-oriented projects. The report suggests that research institutions and public
universities should not be run as sections of the civil service. They need to have the
flexibility to set priorities, seek resources from different public and private agencies,
and establish their own personnel policies. Tne report also stresses that no research
institution receiving public support, and no government program providing grants,
feliowships, institutional support or other resources to the Science and Technology
sector, should be exempt from having clear and well-defined procedures of peer
evaluation, combined, when necessary, with other types of economic and strategic
assessments. Peer review procedures should be strengthened by the federal and state
governments, shouL Le free from pressures of regional, professional anL institutional
interest groups, and should acquire a strong international dimension (for instance,
research proposals could be easily distributed to international referees through
electronic mail). The present project builds on these recommendations.
13.   A serious constraint to effective research in the Amazon is the absence of a
solid research institutional base to serve a critical mass of qualified scientists.
Directed research funding alone cannot address this constraint in a region like the
Amazon where research is underdeveloped. Recognizing this, MCT decided to
initiate a pilot experiment to strengthen selected research institutions. MCT chose two
established research institutions in the Amazon: the National Institute for Amazon
Research (INPA) in Manaus, and the Emilio Goeldi Museum of Para (MPEG) in
Belem. These institutions were selected because of their long tradition of sound
environmental and socio-cultural research and because of their complementary
geographical focus-MPEG in the eastern Arnazon and INPA in the western Amazon,
and their technical focus--MPEG in natural sciences and socio-cultural studies and
INPA in ecological and technological studies. These two Science Centers have
suffered in recent years due to the chronic macroeconomic crisis in Brazil. The level
of funding at INPA and MPEG has been variable during the period from 1982 to
1991 (Annex I). Funding in both institutions reached its lowest level in 1984, 1985
and 1986. INPA and MPEG have been able to raise on average 11% and 32%
respectively in funds from outside sources, especially from international sources. In
terms of expenditures, in 1989, US$9.8 million was allocated to MPEG from the
Pederal Govermnent, of which US$7.3 million went for salaries and US$2.5 million



5
for operating costs and maintenance. For the same year, INPA received US$26.4
million, of which US$23.4 million went for salaries and US$3 million for operating
costs and maintenance. For more details on the two Centers, see Annex 1.
14.   In May 1992, in response to a request from the Brazilian government, the US
National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences selected a Scientific
Advisory Group to assist the Brazilian government with an assessment of INPA and
MPEG and to identify actions for developing these institutions as model Science
Centers in the Amazon rxgion. The niajor def -encies found by the Advisory Grw,-;i
were: (i) lack of clear institutional guidelines ai. focused research goals; (it) low
salaries and exodus of best qualified staff; (lii) lack of administrative efficiency in
research administration; (iv) lack of coordinated activities with other institutions; (v)
deteriorated infrastructure and lack of facilities for field research; (vi) lack of
necessary equipment; and (vii) lack of a performance evaluation system. The
proposed project would address these deficiencies through the Science Centers
component.
15.   MCT's institutional strategy is to provide to these two pilot institutions long-
term continuous support to bring them back to the level of excellence and competence
that won them international recognition in the past. Several new approaches to
institutional strengthening could be tested in these two institutions, such as increased
autonomy and transparency in decision making, incentive systems based on
demonstrated performance and diversification of funding sources. If these new
approaches prove to be successful, other centers could be added to the program in the
future. Resources would be provided to the institutions, based on demonstrated
performance, as an incentive to greater research productivity. In addition, financial
support through the project would restore the Centers' basic infrastructure and
equipment but would not substitute for the present level of funding from the Federal
Government.
Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
16.   Bank lending for science and technology development has risen rapidly since
1980. Both the number of projects and level of financing reflect an increased focus in
this area. A Background Paper, "World Bank Lending for Science and Technology:
General Operational Review" (PHREE No. 92/51R, issued in March 1992), examined
75 Bank loans with explicit science and technology objectives and components. Six
projects, one of which is the Brazil Science Research and Training Project - PADCT
II, are presented as case studies. Several lessons and experiences are sumnmarized in
the paper and include the need to: (i) assess current and future science and technology
needs for development in order to plan resource development and allocation among
research priorities; (ii) promote opportunities for intr-institutional and
interdisciplinary collaboration of the extended local scientific community; (Oii) monitor
and evaluate project implementation and outcomes; (iv) introduce incentives such as
grants for research, support for facilities, monetary rewards, increased professional
status, travel and further training, related to efficient, appropriate productivity,
primarily by basing access to resources on demonstrated performance; (v) promote
access to information resources; (vi) provide basic infrastructure and equipment needs
in order for science and technology projects to prosper; (vii) support the vital role of
the private sector in science and technology education and research; (viii) link



6
research and teaching to assure relevance; and (ix) move to decentralized self-
management of education and research.
17.   In addition, past experiences of the Bank in institutional development are
summarized in a paper by Alain Tobelem (June 1992) entitled "Institutional
Development in the Latin America and Caribbean Region: Lessons of Experience and
Recommendations for Improvement". Major recommendations relevant to the
proposed project include: (i) the importance of basing project design on a thorough
institutional needs assessment; (ii) the importance of establishing clear monitorable
indicators of project success; and (iii) the importance of an annual review process as a
setting for evaluating project performance and agreeing on necessary adjustments.
18.   The Science Centers and Directed Research project contains a number of
unique and innovative features and has also incorporated several of the lessons
learned: (i) the resources will go to support science -nd technology in a region where
research is underdeveloped; (ii) funding will be applied through a competitive and
transparent process based on merit and demonstrated performance. Under the present
project the competitive and transparent process used under PADCT II will be used in
the Directed Research grants program and will be expanded by applying it within
institutions; (iii) PADCT focuses primarily on providing funding to individual
research projects and to a lesser extent in solving institutional bottlenecks that impede
science development, while the Science Centers component addresses the need to
change and build new institutional models and mechanisms that enable science to
prosper. The two chosen Centers will serve as a pilot case where many new ideas
will be tested (more institutional autonomy, staff performance evaluation system,
incentive systems based on demonstrated performance, diversification of funding
sources, etc.). If successful, other centers could be supported in the future; (ho) the
project is demand-driven and builds in specific linkages between applied research and
land use managers in both project components. Dissemination mechanisms have been
built at different stages of project execution. Scientists need to advise/interact more
actively with land and natural resources users in order to understand the problems
they face and address their concerns; (v) multisectoral or multidisciplinary research
will be enhanced (e.g. social, biological, economic and agricultural research will be
supported). Improved land use requires an approach that recognizes the characteristic
cultural and biological diversity of these lands, respects their complex ecological
processes and promotes cooperation among biologists, agricultural scientists, and
social scientists. The easing of rigid disciplinary boundaries is of special importance
in the Amazon region.



7
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
19.   The objective of the project is to promote the generation and dissemination of
scientific knowledge relevant to conservation and sustainable development activities in
the Amazon region. This goal would be pursued through a two-pronged strategy: (i)
support for a grants program for funding research projects on a competitive basis In
the Amazon region; and (ii) strengthening of two established research institutions of
the Amazon, INPA and MPEG.
Project Description
20.   The project would consist of two components, a Directed Research component
and a Science Centers component.
21.   Directed Research (Total estimated cost: US$5.7 million, including
contingencies and financial administration fees). This component would support a
grants program to fund research projects evaluated and selected on a transparent
competitive basis and responding to established priorities. Qualified grantees would
include scientists from universities and other research institutions, both public and
private, located in the Amazon or working in close collaboration with an Amazon-
based institution. Research priorities would respond to gaps in the research currently
being carried out and to the demand for research results by natural resources users
and decision makers. Research priorities for the program were identified in May
1993 and December 1993 by public deliberation at a workshop led by CORPAM, and
were supplemented by additional expert consultancies with the workshop participants,
other members of the scientific community and the Technical Secretariats of other
Pilot Program Projects. The following four broad sub-program areas were identified:
(I) Amazonian ecosystems' structure and function (e.g. impact of land use changes on
ecosystem function, biodiversity assessments and conservation strategies); (ii)
sustainable natural resource management (e.g. baseline studies on productivity of
different land and water use systems, studies on new or traditionally used forest
products with potential economic value); (iii) socioeconomic and cultural systems
(e.g. cultural and social base for the sustainable use of Amazonian environment,
impact of pollution on health); and (iv) low environmental impact infrastructre (e.g.
adaptive research on renewable energies for direct use in the Amazon, studies on
transport modes with low environmental impact). The priorities for the first call for
proposals will be limited to the three first sub-program areas mentioned above for
Phase I of the project. The first call for proposals has been found satisfactory to the
Bank (Anm   ). At negogiations. agreement was reached that the first call for
proposals will be issued thirty days after Grant effectiveness and if all the funds are
not committed after the first call, a subsequent call for proposals satisfactory to the
Bank will be issued six months after the first call has been closed (para. 45(a)).
22.   Evaluation Commissions (ECs), composed of highly qualified scientists, would
use two main overall criteria for evaluating proposals and making recommendations:
priority research and scientific merit. To assess whether a research proposal is a
priority, the Evaluation Commissions would determine if the proposal fits one of the



8
pre-established priorities presented in the call for proposal. To assess scientific merit,
the following specific criteria would be used through a point system: (a) innovative
character of research; (b) sound methodology; (c) qualifications of applicants; (d)
relevance of the research to development; (e) adequate infrastructure for the research
proposed. The operational rules for the Directed Research and for the Science
Centers components, which are incorporated into the Operational Manual and
summarized in Annex 3, have been found satisfactory to the Bank. At negoliations,
agreement was reached that project implementation (Directed Research and Science
Centers components) will be govemed by the agreed Operational Manual (para.
45(b)).
23.   Individual grants will not be larger than US$300,000 for two years. Each
grant proposal could include funds for equipment, supplies, travel expenses,
contractual services, training, scholarships, and publication costs. The project would
also finance the administrative costs of running the grants program, including fees for
consultants and reviewers, travel costs, dissemination, and monitoring and evaluation.
Cost estimates for the Directed Research component are included in Schedule A.
24.   Sfcince Centers (Total estimated cost: US$9.4 mi;lion, including
contingencies and financial administration fees). For INPA and MPEG, this
component would: (a) strengthen the institutional management and administration
functions; (b) support the rehabilitation and expansion of research infastructure and
equipment; (c) increase human resource capacity in scientific research and education;
(d) disseminate research results; (e) provide technical assistance in science and
dissemination management from ODA; (f) provide technical assistance to the project
implementation unit; and (g) support to key policy studies and plan at MPEG.
(a) Institutional management and administration. In order to strengthen the
institutions' overall administrative and management functions, the following
activities would be supported in both institutions: (i) implementation of a
regular system of planning, monitoring, and evaluation. As part of this
activity, a strategic planning exercise to define research priorities and mission
statements has been underway at INPA and MPEG since March 1993 and
preliminary results were reviewed by the appraisal team. INPA's final report
was received at the end of February 1994 and MPEG's report was received at
the end of May 1994. Progress to date on the results of the strategic planning
is included in Annex 4. As a continuation of the strategic planning exercise,
an external evaluation of the two institutions would be carried out by the time
of the mid-term review. The goal of this evaluation would be to review the
structure and functions of the institutions related to the project and to
determine the difficult issue of which research areas may need to be phased
out given the overall mandate of the two institutions (para. 30). The results
and actions from these evaluations would have to be taken prior to appraisal
of a Phase II of the project; (ii) improvement of international and national
scientific exchange and technical cooperation; (iii) improvement of
administrative procedures, including the preparation of new procedures for
personnel and financial management and development of a training program
for administrative staff; and (iv) strengthening of a development office
responsible for fundraising activities and to assure long-term support of the
institutions. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the two institutions
will maintain the development office and the scientific exchange and technical



9
cooperation office with structure, functions and responsibilides satisfactory to
the Bank and that the management and staff will be adequate in numbers and
qualifications (para. 45(c)(i)). In addition to these activities, the project has
carried out a pre-investment study for an institutional reform of research
instituttions. This study was reviewed by the appraisal team and a brief
summary is presented in Annex 5.
(b) Rehabilitation and expansion of research infrastructure and equipment. In
order to up-grade the research infrastructure and equipment that have
deteriorated in recent years, this sub-component would support the following
activities at INPA: (i) expansion and furnishing of laboratory space for the
Aquatic and Ecology Departments; (ii) expansion and furnishing of space for
zoological and botanical collections; (iii) installation of a fire control system in
the library, herbarium and zoological collections building; (iv) improvement
of codlections maintenance and management; (v) modernization and equipment
of the library; (vi) modernization of computer and network capabilities for
researchers; (vii) acquisition of boats and vehicles for field research; (viii)
rehabilitation of two existing floating field stations in the floodplains and one
station near Manaus (ZF-2); and (ix) improvement of research equipment
utilization and acquisition and refurbishing of research equipment. The
following activities would be supported at MPEG: (i) improvement of the
basic electric, telephone and water services at the Research Campus; (ii)
expansion of the zoology collection building and installation of new insulating
roofs for the zoology collections building (birds/reptiles and entomology
buildings) and anthropological collections building; (iii) acquisition of most
needed research equipment and materials; and (iv) modernization of computer
capabilities and development of a well-designed information system to
promote communication between individuals and disciplines. The sub-
component would also support at both Centers the consolidation of the
engineering/maintenance unit to provide high-quality services for the
maintenance of buildings and equipment. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that a plan for the maintenance of buildings and equipments at both
Centers, acceptable to the Bank, will be prepared six months after Grant
effectiveness and carrded out during project implementation (para. 45(d)).
(c) Improve human resource capacity in scientific research and education. To
secure highly qualified research staff in both institutions, incentives must be
created and applied on the basis of demonstrated performance. To accomplish
this objective, the following activity would be supported in both institutions:
(i) development of a staff performance evaluation system dtat would be
implementied at the beginning of the project and would be used to apply the
different incentives described below. In addition, the following activities
would be supported at INPA: (i) development of an exchange program for
researchers at the Ph.D. level to make them competitive at the national and
international levels; and (i) support to the INPA graduate program by
providing resources to students for field work and to complete their theses.
Support to the graduate program would also include equipment to improve
classroom and laboratory conditions for students. At MPEG, the following
activities would be supported: (i) development of an international exchange
program for Ph.D. level staff; (ii) development of a grants program for young
scientists; (iii) development of a training program for curators; and (iv)



10
development of a workshop at the Caixuana reserve. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that the procedures to evaluate staff performance at
INPA and the Goeldi Museum will be defined within nine months from Grant
effectiveness and adopted thereafter (para. 45(e)).
(d) Dissemination of research results. In order to promote the dissemination
and use of the generated research results, the project would finance the
following activities at INPA: (i) publication of four issues of the scientific
journal, "Acta Amazdnica" and of two scientific books; (ii) publication of
booklets and semi-scientific books on applied technology research and
extension services; (iii) production of a high-quality film/video to disseminate
research outputs at INPA and its role in conserving and managing the Amazon
rain forest; (iv) support for an international congress on Amazon fisheries;
and (v) support for the consolidation of an in-house publication office. At
MPEG, the following activities would be financed: (i) improvement of the
library collections, equipment and management; (ii) support for the in-house
publication office; (iii) production of six issues of the museum's
environmental bulletin; and (iv) preparation of a master plan for refurbishing
MPEG's major exhibits hall.
(e) Technical assistance from the Overseas Development Agency: The
Overseas Development Agency has recommended that the following activities
be funded under the project in both institutions: (i) study visits by senior staff
and training course in science development; (ii) support to the production of
promotion and dissemination materials; (iii) provision of a CD reader,
computer and abstract disks and training on its operation; (iv) provision of
advice and training in developing information from the collections of
relevance to development.
(f) Project implementation support: This sub-component would include support
to the Project Implementation Units (PIU) at INPA and MPEG for technical
services, including contracting procurement services and an external auditor
and monitoring and evaluation support. The sub-component would be
financed by the counterpart funds.
(g) Policy studies and strategic plans: In addition, the project would finance
with counterpart funds the following policy studies and plans at MPEG: (i)
preparation of a 5-year strategic plan for the dissemination activities at the
Museum; (ii) preparation of a detailed scientific policy and plan for the
institutions; and (iii) preparation of a plan to restructure the zoobotanical park.
25.   Specifically, the Science Centers component would finance technical
assistance, training, workshops, limited renovation and extension of facilities, library
and collections resources, and office, electronic, field and laboratory equipment. Cost
estimates for the Science Centers component are included in Schedule A.



11
Project Costs and Financing
26.   The present project constitutes the first phase of the Science Centers and
Directed Research project and its total costs have been estimated at US$15.1 million.
The project would be financed by the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFT) (US$8.5
million), the Commission of European Communities (CEC) (US$5.4 million
equivalent), the United Kingdom (US$0.7 million equivalent) and by the Brazilian
Government (US$0.5 million). Co-financing would be provided on a parallel basis.
The CEC funds would be disbursed through a Trust Fund expected to be established
in the Bank. The Trust Fund agreement between the CEC and the Bank was signed
on June 9, 1994. Funds from the United Kingdom would be provided as technical
cooperation directly to the Centers through the Overseas Development Administration
(ODA). Financing plans for each project components are shown in Schedule A.
Additional phases could be financed to reach the long-term strategy as more funds are
committed to the Pilot Program (see Annex 5).
Project Implementation
27.   Project Administration. The project management unit or Technical Secretariat
(TS) would be under the overall coordination of the Secretariat of Program
Coordination (SECOP) of MCT and would be headed by its Secretary. The TSs
main responsibilities would be to: (i) coordinate and supervise the implementation of
all the components of the project according to the Grant Agreement and the
Operational Manual; (ii) execute the Directed Research component of the project
according to the Operational Manual; (iii) ensure that the recommendations of the
Pilot Program International Advisory Group (1AG), CORPAM and the International
Group for Scientific Monitoring (IGSM) (to be established for the project) are
incorporated during project implementation and review; (iv) represent MCT in the
Brazilian Pilot Program Coordinating Commission and report to them on progress to
date; and (v) prepare monitoring and evaluation reports on the basis of information
provided by INPA, MPEG, the Financial Agent and the beneficiary institutions (see
Annex 3 for more details). At negotiations, agreement was reached that MCT will
maintain a TS with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank
and with management and staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications
(para. 45(c)(ii)). To carry out the project, the Ministry of Environment and Legal
Amazon (MMA), coordinator of the Pilot Program, would enter into legal agreements
with MCT and the Financial Agent. MMA will have the responsibility for the overall
coordination, MCT will be responsible for technical supervision and execution and the
Financial Agent for the financial execution. Prior to negopiations, the Bank was
informed that the Agency for Financing of Studies and Projects (FINEP) (MCT's
Financial Agent) would be the financial agent for the Recipient (para. 44). At
negotiations, a draft agreement between MMA, MCT and FINEP was reviewed by the
Bank. The signing of a satisfactory agreement between MMA, MCT and FINEP is a
condition of Grant effectiveness (para. 46(a)). FINEP will enter in agreements with
INPA, MPEG and the sub-project institutions. The signing of satisfactory agreements
between FINEP and INPA and between FINEP and MPEG is a condition of Grant
effectiveness (para. 46(b)).



12
28.   Directed Research. Implementation of the Directed Research Program would
build on the experience of PADCT I and II (para. 8). Detailed descriptions of the
implementation strategies and rules of the program are found in the Operational
Manual approved by the Bank and summarized in Annex . The Operational Manual
includes: (i) an annual operating plan; (ii) guidelines for peer reviewers, contained in
a document entitled "General Orientations Regarding the Organization and Operation
of the Evaluation Commissions"; (iii) model of minutes to be used by the scientific
review panel (ECs); (iv) profiles of the representatives to be added to the International
Group for Scientific Monitoring (see para. 30); (v) terms of reference (with
membership profiles) for the ECs; and (vi) format for submission of the annual
implementation progress report (APR). Based on the research priorities defined by
CORPAM, the TS would issue calls for proposals and appoint independent Evaluation
Commissions (ECs) to review the research proposals according to strict selection
criteria and to recommend proposals for funding. Approved research projects would
be contracted by the Financial Agent, according to terms set in the model grant
agreement between the Financial Agent and Beneficiaries (para. 27).
29.   Science Centers. For the Science Centers component, the director of each
Center would be responsible for overall project administration and policy direction.
The directors would report to the Technical Secretariat according to the terms
established in the implementation agreement between MMA, MCT and FINEP and in
the agreements between FINEP and INPA and FINEP and MPEG (para. 27). Each
Science Center would establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to carry out the
day-to-day work. The two Science Centers PIU's would be responsible for planning
and coordinating technical activities and for monitoring and evaluation of project
results. At neiations, agreement was reached that each Center will maintain a PIU
with responsibilities, structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and with
management and staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications (para.
45(c)(iii)). The satisfactory establishment of the PIUs is a condition of Grant
effectiveness (para. 46(c)). At ngeoiaons, agreement was reached that project
progress will be monitored against the performance targets specified in Annex (para.
45(f)). The two Science Centers' PIUs would be organized so that implementation of
each project component would be headed by one qualified and experienced staff that
would assume responsibility for attaining the objectives and proposed project outputs
in a timely manner. In addition, staff from the planning, financing and administrative
departments of the institutions would be part of the PIU and would be responsible for
procurement under Bank rules and financial reporting. INPA and MPEG's directors
would also seek advice from the existing Board of Directors (CTC) on the overall
project implementation strategy and would ensure that the recommendations of the
International Group for Scientific Monitoring (IGSM) and the IAG are incorporated
during project implementation and review.
30.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The TS would be responsible for monitoring and
evaluating each component of the proposed project. For the Science Centers
component, progress would be measured according to the performance targets
presented in Annex . For the Directed Research component, the TS will use a
standard form for monitoring and evaluating projects. This form, agreed with the
Bank, has been incorporated into the Operational Manual. The TS will be assisted by
an International Group for Scientific Monitoring ([GSM) that would be responsible for
carrying out an independent evaluation of the Science Centers and Directed Research
Project. The IGSM would meet annually and would submit to the TS detailed



13
evaluation reports of the components of the project and the impact of the investments
in the Amazon region. The IGSM would also be responsible for visiting a sample of
research projects funded by the Directed Research component and the two Centers to
assess whether the original objectives have been met. The IGSM would carry out an
external evaluation of the two Centers related to the project by the time of the mid-
term review. The goal of this evaluation would be to review the structure and
functions of the institutions related to the project and to determine the difficult issue of
which research areas may need to be phased out given the overall mandate of the two
institutions. The IGSM would consist of several members of the GEA (Grupo de
Avaliacio do PADCI) and would add four eminent scientists (two Brazilian and two
international) specializing in environmental sciences. AA neogtiaQns, agreement was
reached that MCT will appoint highly qualified national and international scientists
with expertise in natural, agricultural and social sciences to the IOSM to: (i) monitor
and evaluate implementation progress every year; (b) carry out a review of the
structure and functions of the two Centers; and (c) send to the Bank no later that
March 31 of each year, beginning in 1995, a report with their findings (para. 45(g)).
31.   The TS would track financial transactions and project information in an MIS
(Management Information System) in use at MCT that is well adapted for the Directed
Research program. The two Centers and grant recipients of the Directed Research
program would submit progress reports bi-annually tracking physical and financial
performance targets to the Financial Agent for transmission to and review by the TS.
At neWQafoin, agreement was reached that copies of semi-annual progress reports
will be sent to the Bank by March 31 and September 30 of each year, beginning
September 30, 1994 (para. 45(h)). In addition, at negotiatin, agreement was
reached that, one year after Grant effectiveness or after 60% of the funds are
committed, whichever comes first, the Bank and the Technical Secretariat will jointly
carry out a mid-term review of the project, at which time adjustments could be made
to project design as necessary and as recommended by the IGSM, in order to allow
the project to fulfill its objectives (para. 45(i)). Prior to the review, the Government
will prepare a draft report that will be sent to members of the IGSM. The IGSM will
specifically review and comment on the report and will also add its own
recommendations. No less than one month before the mid-term review the
Government will send to the Bank its report as well as the report of the IOSM. On
the basis of this review the Government will revise the operational guidelines and the
objectives and strategy of all the project's components, and will also reallocate funds.
In addition, if funds are available and based on the project's progress toward meetg
its objectives, Phase II of the project would be recommended.
32.   Dissemination. The TS would be responsible for the dissemination of results
of all project components. The general activities to be carried out are. (i) preparation
of materials for disseminating the program during different stages of implementation,
including the publication of the quarterly information bulletins already used under
PADCT, which would be adapted for the Directed Research Program (PPD); and (ii)
organization of workshops carried out by Directed Research Program participants and
directed to the scientific community at large and to other interested sectors of society.
33.   Procgrment. Procurement for the project would include civil works,
scientific and laboratory equipment, computer equipment, transportation equipment
and general office equipment and technical services (see Schedule B for a detailed
description of procurement arrangements). Procurement for the Directed Research



14
component would be dispersed in time over the period of the project and would be
implemented by different universities and research institutes, and carried out by a
large number of researchers who would require equipment with particular
specifications to meet the needs of their projects. For these reasons, packaging of
procurement across sub-projects in the Directed Research component of the project
would be difficult.
34.   Civil works under the proposed project include very small and scattered
works for two institutions geographically dispersed. As the largest single contract, for
the construction of two new buildings at INPA (Manaus), is not expected to exceed
US$1.2 million, it is unlikely that foreign contractors would be interested.
Procurement of civil works would therefore be carried out as follows: (i) contracts
above US$300,000 would be procured on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank (the estimated aggregate Bank-financed
amount is US$1,440,000); (ii) contracts under US$300,000 and not exceeding
US$1,459,000 in aggregate, would be awarded through Local Shopping obtaining
three quotations from any eligible contractors. Except for computer equipment,
contract packages for goods are not expected to exceed US$250,000 and therefore are
not large enough to attract foreign contractors through International Competitive
Bidding procedures. Goods under the proposed project would be procured as
follows: (i) computer equipment for INPA and MPEG (except for the sub-projects of
the Directed Research component) would be procured in packages of not less than
US$600,000 by each institution through Limited International Bidding (LIB) among
manufacturers who have established maintenance and technical assistance services in
Brazil and using Bank issued standard bidding documents; (ii) contracts for
miscellaneous materials and supplies, books, dissemination products and publishing
services expected to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent would be procured under
LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank; (iii) miscellaneous scientific, transport and
office equipment and materials and supplies which cannot be grouped in packages of
more than US$100,000 each would be procured through shopping procedures
acceptable to the Bank by obtaining three quotations from any eligible contractors
(except for the sub-projects of the Directed Research component, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, the estimated aggregate for scientific,
transport and office equipment is US$800,000 and for materials and supplies is
US$400,000). The procurement arrangements for the project are shown in Schedule
B. Standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank would be used for LCB
procurement of works and goods. All LIB and LCB contracts for goods and works
would be subject to prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid evaluation, award
proposals and final contracts. Prior review is expected to cover about 56% of Bank-
financed contracts for goods and works. The selection and appointment of consultants
for studies, workshops, training and technical assistance would follow the Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrower and the World
Bank Executing Agency, dated August 1981. Selection of consultant firms valued at
US$100,000 or more would be subject to prior Bank review (Terms of References,
budgets, letter of invitation, evaluation and proposed contract). For individual
consultants, prior Bank review (TOR, qualifications and conditions of employment)
would be required for contracts valued at US$30,000 or more. Below these limits,
Bank prior review would only apply to TORs. All the participating agencies (MCT,
Financial Agent, INPA, MPEG) would have responsibility for ensuring the
competitiveness, in terms of price and quality, of the items procured and their
suitability for the purposes intended. INPA and MPEG will be assisted by SECOP,



1s
CNPq and consultants, since their experience in procurement is limited.
35.   Disbursements. The proceeds of the RFT Grant would be disbursed over a
two-year period. The Bank signed a Trust Fund Agreement with the CEC on June 9,
1994 to administer the CEC Trust Fund (US$5.4 million equivalent). The RFT funds
would disburse against 100% of eligible expenditures for civil works, goods, technical
services and financial fees for the Science Centers component and administrative
expenses of MCT. The CEC funds would disburse against 100% of the research sub-
project expenditures and financial fees for the Directed Research component. The
disbursement schedule for the RFT and CEC grants is shown in Schedule B (page 21).
Grant funds would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for
consultant services for firms whose contract value is below US$100,000, consultant
services for individuals whose contract value is below US$30,000, contracts for goods
valued below US$100,000, civil works contract valued below US$300,000 and for all
administrative expenses. Suppc.-ting documentation for such expenditures would not
be submitted to the Bank but would be made available for inspection by Bank
supervision missions. All other disbursements will be made against fully documented
withdrawal applications.
36.   In order to ensure efficient and timely implementation of the project, Special
Accounts (for RFTJ and CEC funds), with an initial deposit of US$850,000 and
US$540,000 to be withdrawn from the RFT and CEC Grant Account respectively,
would be established in US dollars at a commercial bank. Any interest earned with
the proceeds of the Special Accounts would be credited in its entirety to the project
and would be kept in a separate account. The two Centers would maintain separate
accounts as well as the research sub-projects of the Directed Research component.
Withdrawals from the Special Account would be supported by the required
documentation or SOEs. The project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1996.
37.   Auditine. The financial agent and the two Centers would maintain separate
accounts for the project and would keep adequate records to reflect their operations
and financial situation, in accordance with sound accounting principles applied
consistently. The project as a whole, the two Centers, and the Special Accounts will
be subject to an annual audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. At
negg.tiationa, agreement was reached that: (i) the project accounts will be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the terms of reference
for the auditors will include, inter alia, provision of a Management Letter, a separate
opinion on the use of the Special Account and Statement of Expenses (SOEs) for the
project accounts and Special accounts; (iii) copies of the auditor's report will be sent
to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 45j)).
Project Sustainability
38.   Science research investments in Brazil and particularly in the Amazon region,
which remains poorly understood, will still be needed after thiS project. PADCT and
the Directed Research component have strengthened and would continue to strengthen
MCT to manage a grants program competitively and transparently. This institutional
strengthening would allow MCT to attract future science investment projects or grants
due to its enhanced efficiency. The long-term sustainability of the two research



16
Centers will be eahanced by diversification of funding sources, support for greater
autonomy for the Centers and training staff in fundraising techniques, which would
Increase their ability to attract outside funding after the project ends.
Rationale for RFr Funding
39.     One of the objectives of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for Brazil,
discussed at the Board on June 29, 1993, is to identify ways to allow and encourage
vigorous agricultural and industrial growth, while at the same time strengthening
institutions and initiatives that will preserve the environment and reduce rural poverty.
The Pilot Program's overall strategy is to demonstrate the feasibility of harmonizing
economic and environmental objectives. Through its support of relevant Amazon
research activities, the proposed project would improve the knowledge base needed
for conservation of the Amazon rain forest along with the sustainable exploitation of
its resources. As such, it is fully consistent both with the objectives of the Country
Assistance Strategy as it applies to rural and rain forest areas and with the objectives
of the Pilot Program. Innovative aspects of the proposed project include its focus on
joint multidisciplinary research activities, coupled with institutional reforms and
strengthening in two Amazon research Centers that would encourage among others,
the decentralization of the organization and creation of incentives basing access to
resources on demonstrated performance.
Environmental Aspects
40.     No significant negative environmental effects are expected. The project
retains a "C" classification for environmental assessment purposes.
Project Benefits
41.     The project is expected to increase capacity in environmental sciences in the
Amazon and in Brazil, improve the technological knowledge needed to utilize
sustainably the resources from the rain forest, and to disseminate research results to
environmental policy makers and educators in the region. The direct beneficiaries of
the project would be researchers from universities or from private or public research
institutions, and other users of science. The Science Centers component would
provide a base in the Amazon from which to generate and disseminate knowledge on
scientific issues in the region. By improving the basic infrastructure and equipment
needed for scientific research, the Science Centers component would attract scientists
from other regions or continents and advance needed knowledge.
Risks
42.     The major risk to the Directed Research component is that the research
topics identified as priorities may not directly address the relevant issues of
conservation and sustainable development in the Amazon region. In order to
minimize this risk, procedures to establish research priorities over the duration of the
project were agreed between the Bank and the Brazilian government. Research



17
priorities were evaluated at a workshop by CORPAM and supplemented by additional
consultancies in light of the types of research being carried out now and the demand
for research results by decision makers. The first call for proposals will be based on
these priorities. These initial priorities will be re-evaluated based on the results of the
first call for proposals, additional workshops and consultancies and will result in the
second and third call for proposals. Another risk of the Directed Research
component is that the program may suffer delays during Implementation due to a low
demand. This has been the case in the Environmental Subprogram of PADCT II
(para. 8) that has started slowly. From the original US$14.7 million, only US$4.8
million has been awarded. This risk would be minimized in the Directed Research
component since it will start with a single call for proposals estimated at US$5.4
million and will be opened very widely to national and interational competitors in
broader fields than PADCT 11, such as natural sciences, social sciences, geography,
climatology, agricultural sciences, and mineral sciences. T'herefore, a low demand is
not expected.
43.   Tbe main risk for the Science Centers component is the lack of continuity in
govermlnent funding. The proposed project minimizes this risk by supporting greater
autonomy for the two Centers and by setting the stage for the establishment of long-
term funding mechanisms (e.g. endowment funds or debt swap) that could protect the
institution from funding uncertainties. As with all institutional strengthening projects,
measuring progress can be difficult and may be overly subjective. The proposed
design would include the definition of clear performance targets of project success that
will guide discussion during annual review meetings.



18
m. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
44.   Prior to negotiations, the Bank was informed that FINEP would be the
financial agent for the Recipient (para. 27).
4S.   At n,atiaons the Bank and the Government agreed that:
(a)   the first call for proposals will be issued thirty days after Grant
effectiveness and if all the funds are not committed after the first call,
a subsequent call for proposals satisfactory to the Bank will be issued
six months after the first call has been closed (para. 21);
(b)    project implementation will be governed by the agreed Operational
Manual (para. 22);
(c)   (i) the two institutions will maintain the development office and the
scientific exchange and technical cooperation office with structure,
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank and that the
management and staff will be adequate in numbers and with adequate
qualifications; (ii) MCT will maintain a TS with responsibilities,
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank and with management
and staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications; (iii)
each Center will maintain a PIU with responsibilities, structure and
functions satisfactory to the Bank and with management and !:tiff in
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications (para. 2V'  and
29);
(d)    a plan for the maintenance of buildings and equipment at both
Centers, acceptable to the Bank, will be prepared six months after
Grant effectiveness and carried out during project implementadon
(para. 24);
(e)   the procedures to evaluate staff performance at INPA and the Goeldi
Museum will be defined within nine months from Grant effectiveness
and adopted thereafter (para. 24);
(t)    project progress will be monitored against the performance targets
specified in Annex6 (para. 29);
(g)    MCT will appoint highly qualified national and international scientists
with expertise in natural, agricultural and social sciences to the
International Group for Scientific Evaluation (IGSM) (para. 30);
(h)    copies of semi-annual progress reports will be sent to the Bank by
March 31 and September 30 of each year, beginning September 30,
1994 (para. 31);
(i)    One year after grant signing, or after 60% of grant funds are



19
committed, whichever comes first, the Bank and the Government will
jointly review progress in project implementation. Not less than one
month before the mid-term review the Government will send to the
Bank its report as well as the report of the IGSM (para. 31); and
aj)   (i) the project accounts will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) the terms of reference for the
auditors will Include, inter alia, provision of a Management Letter, a
separate opinion on the use of the Special Account and Statement of
Expenses (SOEs) for the project accounts and Special Accounts; and
(iii) copies of the auditor ; report will be sent to the Bank within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 37).
46.   Conditions of Grant effectiveness would be:
(a)   the signing of satisfactory agreements for project implementation
between MMA, MCT and FINEP (para. 27);
(b)   the signing of satisfactory agreements between FINEP and INPA and
between FINEP and MPEG (para. 27); and
(c)   the satisfactory establishment of the two Science Centers' Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) (para. 29).
47.   Recommendatio. I am satisfied that the proposed RFT grant would comply
with Resolution 92-2 of the Bank's Executive Directors and recommend approval of
the grant.
Rainer B. Steckhan
Director, Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 27, 1994



20                                          Schedule A
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
Estimated Project Costs by Components
US  W000 equIvaln                    %
Foran
COMPONENTS                                 Local      Foreiun       Total       Excla
A. Directed Research
Research Sub-Projects                       3,441       t,853         5294      35
Subtotal Directed Research                     3.441      1,853          5294
B. Science Centers
1. INPA
a. Institutional Strengthening                226        254            460     53
b. Research Infrastructure & Equipment      2109        1.349         3.458     39
c. Human Resources                            248        280            529     53
d. Dissemination                              131         74            204     36
e. Technical Assistance -ODA                    0        387            387    100
. Project Implementation                      100        100            200     50
Subtotal INPA                                  2814       2444           5.258
2. MPEG
a. Institutional Strengthening                176        170            346     49
b. Research Infrastructure & Equipment        680        736          1.416     52
c. Human Resources                            562        375            937     40
d. Dissemination                              170        139            309     45
e. Technical Assistance -ODA                    0        308            308     100
t. Project implementation                      68         68            135     50
g. Policy Studies and Plans                   145          0            145      0
Subtotal MPEG                                  1.801      1,795          3596
Administrative Expenses (MCT)                      120         78            198      49
Financial Agent Fees (2% RFT & CEC)                273          0            273     49
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                              8.449      6,170         14619
Physical Contingencies                             213        152            355
Price Contingencies                                 55         so            115
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               3,717      6,382         U1,088



21                                        Schedule A
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
Components by Financiers
(USS '000) equivalent
Brazian
RFT      CEC       ODA    ovensnot    Taail
Amount   Amount  Amoutt   Amourd    Afmon
A. Directed Research
a. Research Sub-Projects                     5,294                           5,294
B. Science Centers
1. INPA
a. Institutional Strengthening       480                                       480
b. Science Infrastructure & Equipment 3,458                                  3,458
c. Human Resources                   529                                       529
d. Dissemination                     204                                       204
e. Technical Assistance-ODA                              387                   387
f. Project Implementation                                           200        200
2. MPEG
a. Institutional Strengthening       346                                       346
b. Research Infrastructure & Equipment 1,416                                 1,416
c. Human Resources                   937                                       937
d. Dissemination                     309                                       309
e. Technical Assistance - ODA                            308                   308
f. Project Implementation                                           135        135
g. Policy Studies and Plans                                         145        14S
Administrative Expenses (MCT)                  198                                       198
Financial Agent Fees (2% RFT & CEC)            167       106                             273
Unallocated   (Contingencies)                 456                   14                  470
TOTAL DISBURSEMENT                           8,500     5,400      709        480      15,089



22                                    Schedule B
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
Summary of Procurement Arrangements
(US$ 000) equhralent            TOTAL
1         2B
EXPENDITURE CATEGORY             UB        LCB      out         NBF     Amount
3
Civil Works                        -     1,440      1,459         -       2,899
(1,440)    (1,459)              (2.899)
4
Scientiric Equipment               -         -       565                   585
(565)                (565)
3
Transport Equipment                -         -       129          -        129
(129)                (129)
3
Office Equipment                   -         -       136          8        144
(136)                (136)
Electronic Equipment           1,342         -          -       243       1,585
(1,342)                                   (1,342)
Materials, Supplies, Books,        -       287       420        201        908
Dissemination Products and               (287)      (420)                (707)
Publishing Services
Consulting Services                -         -       693        530       1,223
(693)                (693)
Training                           -         -      1,269       191       1,460
(1,269)              (1,269)
Workshops                          -         -       340         16        356
(340)                (340)
Research Sub-Projects Contract     -         -      5,294                5,294
Administrative Expenses (MCT)      -                 253          -        253
(253)                (253)
Financial Agent Fees               -         -       273          -        273
(167)                (167)
TOTAL ESTIMATED COSTS          1,342     1,727     10,831     1,189      15,089
(1,342)   (1,727)    (5,431)              (8,500)
1. LIB a Limited International Bidding
2. LCB = Local Competitive Bidding
3. LS a Local Shopping
4.IS - Intemational Shopping
5. Consufltng services to be procured according to Bank guidelines
6. Non Bank Financed
(Numbes In pathesis reflect RFT finncn)
* Maamum grant for each sub-project Is US$150,000 per year and US$300,000 total



23                                    Schedule B
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
Category                      Amount   Amount         % of Expenditures
from       from
RFT       CEC
(US$'OOO)  (ECU'OO0)
1. Civil Works                                        100%
a. INPA                     1,974
b. MPEG                      735
2. Goods                                              100%
a. INPA                     1,773
b. MPEG                      974
3. Technical Services                                 100%
(consulting, training
workshops)
a. INPA                      924
b. MPEG                     1,299
4. Research Sub-Projects                     4,725    100%
5. Administrative Expenses          198               100%
6. Financial Agent Fees             167        95    100% of the RFT Grant or 100% of
the CEO Grant as th oase may be
7. Unallocated                     456
TOTAL                            8,500      4,820
RFT Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Bank FY                                  95                                      96
Annual                                  7.3                                      1.2
Cumulative                              7.3                                      8.5
Extemal Funds Disbursement Schedule
(US$'000)
Bank FY                                  95                                      96
Annual                                  5.8                                      0.8
Cumulative                              5.8                                      6.6



24
Schedule C
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FORESI
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
ITMhTABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
Time Taken to Prepare:      13 months (August 1992 to September 1993)
Prepared By:                National Institute for Amazon Research (INPA)
Emilio Goeldi Museum of Para (MPEG)
Ministry of Science and Technology (MCI)
World Bank: Claudia Sobrevila, Land & Forest
Management Team and Robert Kaplan.
First Bank Mission:         August 1992
Appraisal Mission Departure: September 1993
Date of Negotiations:       June 1994
Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1994 (expected)
Summary Supervision Plan:   Missions are planned for 4-6 month intervals to
supervise progress. Technical expertise: institutional
specialist, architect/engineer, science administrator,
ecologist.
One mission each year will be designed as an annual
review, at which time the adequacy of the project
strategy would be assessed and design modification
agreed upon, if necessary.



25
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
IV. TECHNICAL ANNEXES
Annex 1   DESCRIPTION OF THE TWO INSTrIUTIONS
Annex 2    DIRECTED RESEARCH COMPONENT - CALL FOR PROPOSALS
Annex 3    SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONAL MANUAL
Annex 4    PROGRESS ON IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGIC PLANNING
Annex 5    LONG-TERM STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT OF THE SCIENCE
CENTERS
Annex 6    KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS FOR MONITORING AND
EVALUATION
Annex 7    REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
Map IBRD No. 25520



26                             Am  1
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
Annex 1: DESCRIPTION OF THE TWO INSTITUTIONS
The National Institute for Amazonian Research (INPA)
The Brazilian Government founded the National Institute for Amazonian
Research (INPA) in 1952 and installed it in Manaus in 1954, to coordinate scientific
and technological research in the region. INPA reported directly to CNPq in the
Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT), but since 1987, INPA left CNPq and
started reporting directly to MCT. INPA was also endowed with some administrative
and financial autonomy. INPA's main goal is to promote the conservation and
sustainable use of Amazonian resources through scientific and technological research
on the region's terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. The institute maintains three
campuses (Aleixo ! and II and V-8 campus) in Manaus, which house a library,
herbarium, laboratories, zoological collections, and a data processing center. It also
operates four biological reserves totalling 12,500 hectares, a tropical forestry and fruit
culture experimental station of 21,000 hectares, and floating and regional research
nuclei stations in Acre, Roraima, and Rondonia.
Principal lines of research at the institute are: (i) protection and conservation
of natural resources, (ii) social and health sciences, (iii) multiple use of Amazon soils,
and (iv) technological uses for natural products. These lines of research have
provided the basic knowledge essential fcr future use and conservation of the natural
resources and genetic potential of the largest tropical humid forest in the world.
Significant findings have been generated at INPA. To name a few: (a) soils in
Central Amazonia are predominantly poor; most nutrients are contained in the forest
biomass and not in the soils; (b) studies on plant defense substances in 100 species
have revealed diverse natural products of potential use in human and veterinary
medicine, and fungus and insect control; (c) INPA has been experimenting with new
uses for rain forest products and suggesting technical applications to industry (i.e.
pisciculture, forestry); and (d) research has demonstrated that the forest is responsible
for recycling 50 percent of the rainfall of the Amazon basin.
INPA also devotes considerable research effort to evaluating the social and
ecological impacts of large development projects, principally in hydroelectrics,
thermoelectrics, mining, and highway construction. The institute is organized into 13
departmnents: Botany, Ecology, Tropical Forestry, Aquatic Biology,
Hydrometeorology, Ecology, Phytochemistry, Health Sciences, Agronomy, Wood
Technology, Entomology, Aquaculture, Food Technology and Social Sciences.
INPA maintains cooperation agreements with over 30 Brazi.ian institutions and 10
non-Brazilian institutions. Of INPA's 850 staff, 71 have doctorates and 118 have a
master's degree.
In the early 1960s, INPA undertook the first scientific expeditions to remote



27                             Al12.x I
parts of the Amazon with researchers from elsewhere in Brazil and from around the
world. As a result of this and subsequent expeditions, INPA's plant collection, with
170,000 samples, holds 40 percent of all specimens collected in the Brazilian
Amazon. INPA's irreplaceable collections also include 550,000 insects and 4,000
mammals, as well as significant numbers of reptiles, birds, fish, and microorganisms.
These collections provide an invaluable service to Amazonian researchers from around
the world.
In the early 1970s INPA consolidated its physical and administrative
infrastructure. Through an agreement with the University of Amazonas, INPA
established a graduate degree program, first in Botany in 1973, and in later in
Ecology, Entomology, and Freshwater Biology. Today, the institute offers graduate
courses at the master's level in Forest Management, Chemistry of Natural Products,
and Food Technology and Nutrition and at both the master's and doctorate levels in
Botany, Freshwater Biology and Fishery, Ecology, and Entomology. INPA's
graduate program has conferred over 200 master's and almost 30 Ph.D. degrees.
The Emilio Goeldi Museum of Para (MPEG)
MPEG was founded in Belem in 1866, by a group of local intellectuals who
were motivated by their belief in the future of the Amazon and in the importance uf
studying and cataloging its natural resources, geography, and natural and human
history. Nearly 130 years later, MPEG continues to fulfill this historic mission.
MPEG reports directly to CNPq in MCT. The objectives of MPEG are fourfold: (i)
to inventory and evaluate the natural and cultural patrimony of the Amazon region, by
studying its flora, fauna, rocks and minerals, indigenous groups, geography and
history; (ii) to preserve and organize the knowledge acquired in scientific collections
and databases; (iii) to disseminate the research findings and, through its exhibits,
educate local people on the natural and cultural values of the region; and (iv) to
contribute to the formulation of a sustainable development policy for the region.
Since the 1970s the Museum has been pursuing research in areas affected by large
civil engineering projects (such as construction of hydroelectric dams and highways),
where it strives to gather information and form collections before the areas are
irreversibly altered. In 1989, interested in a more holistic vision of the region and in
the dynamics of the Amazonian ecosystems, the Museum created the Ecology
Department, with programs in the Ecology of Natural Systems, Human Biology and
Ecology, Paleoecology and Primatology.
The Museum facilities are split between two sites. The historical site in the
center of Beldm houses the zoological and botanical park, aquarium, library, museum
exhibits, and a soil and water lab, as well as some of the academic departments.
Other departments and the data processing facility are located on a second site in the
outskirts of the city. The Museum is also establishing a research station on over
30,000 hectares in the Caxiuana National Forest, 400 kilometers west of Belem, and it
has an ongoing research project on the ecology and natural resource management of
the island of CombW, near Belem. The Museum has over 300 employees, of which
41 have doctorates or are registered in Ph.D. programs, and 37 have master's degrees
or are registered in master's degree programs.
Since 1895, scientists at the Goeldi Museum have carried out broad-ranging



28                             Annex.
and systematic inventories of the flora, fauna and ethnography of the Amazon region,
subjects about which very little was known at the time. The Museum Herbarium,
created in 1895, houses priceless samples, including specimens of flora of regions that
are now deforested and duplicates of specimens that were destroyed in European
museums during World War II, as well as more than 2,000 specimens representing
the first scientific description of the species.
The Museum's contribution in the field of zoology began in 1899 with a
revision of the genera of social wasps of the New World, a classification still used
today. Early studies on bees and pollination systems in the region are still cited,
especially following the arrival of the Africanized bee in Amazonia. Field
ornithology in Amazon i was founded at the Goeldi Museum and pioneering studies of
nesting behavior of birds were carried out there. This early work forms the basis of
current knowledge of native bird population dynamics in the region. The zoological
collections contain irreplaceable documentation on areas that are today devastated or
modified.
The Museum has contributed greatly to the study of the social sciences in the
region as well. Researchers at the Goeldi Museum have made notable contributions to
anthropological theory through studies of cultural change and religion in Amazonia.
The Museum's ethnographic collections of Amazonian Indian artifacts are some of the
most important in the world, in particular because they document tribal groups which
are today extinct or strongly modified by inter-ethnic contact. Contributions to
linguistics began in 1877, when first contact was made with the last Arua Indian of
Marajo Island and 200 words of that lal. ige were collected. Today the Goeldi
Museum is an important research center for Amazonian languages. Archaeology
studies also have a long tradition at the Museum. In the 1940s, scientists working
with the Museum estahlished the first sequence of cultural development at the mouth
of the Amazon, and in the 1970s a Museum research team discovered the oldest
ceramics in Brazil at that time, which were also some of the oldest in all of South
America.



29                                         Armex-I
Table 1: Funding sources at INPA and MPEG during 1982 and 1991.
(In thoumatds of US DoUan)
(A)  A
1M          19N2       Wm     1984119I51          I86      1971    198          1989       19901    1991      T9T
Tummy    13U440   10,133    7,067    8,430    9,086    )6,422    22.301    21,344    30,321    12362           1509Q6
Se vie       839    1,271     1,579      765      663       904       238      11,90S        16         0        8,180
a          3,272    1,6S8    2,322    2.149    2,223    2,749          576     -.25         647       303       21,150
Togsa     17,i1    13.062   10,968    11,344   11.972   20,075    23,115    2800        2,494     12,665     180,236
(b) bowG
Fw          1982       1983I19    198 S         1986     1987 j   1988        1989]    1990 J    1991 jTOAL
T9ms       2,392  |    74    1,347      154       747    1,327      1257      3,26       2,387       709        15,420
Suas          45       44 1433          101       168      205        66        201        192        84         1,539
Gats         402      228      421      303      S s80     34s      1,309       163      1,943     2,494        8,188
Tota      2.839    1,846    2,201 |     58    1.495    1.8        2,632     3,890      2.494      3.287       25,147



30                                       h
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILfAN RAIN FORES1
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT
Annex 2: DIRECTED RESEARCH COMPONENT - CALL FYOR PROPOSALS
(Translated from Portuguese)
A. GENERAL INFORMATION
Notice
The present call for proposals is part an integral application package for the
Directed Research program that describes the general regulations and requirements
that need to be met by all applicants. The application package includes: (a) call for
proposals (described below); (b) Summary of the Operational Manual of the Directed
Research Project; (c) Grant Application Form; and (d) Supplementary Guidelines to
all for proposals (for documents mentioned in (b), (c) and (d), see project files list of
AInx 7 . The call for proposals describes the priority themes that would be funded
as well as the evaluation criteria to be using during the selection process. The
Summary of the Operational Manual describes the structure and procedures of the
Directed Research programn. The Grant Application Forms requests the biographical
irformation and past experiences of applicants, institutional arrangements of the sub-
projects and provides detailed guidelines for preparing proposals. The Supplementary
Guidelines include information on the Pilot Program and other procedural aspects not
included in item (b). Before preparing a research proposal, applicants need to read
c-arefully all items of the above-mentioned documents. Non-compliance with any
regulation or requirement contained in this call for proposals or the complementary
documents will jeopardize the proposal, as stated in the respective topics.
Deadlines
Presentation of Proposals:
Release of Results:
Invitation
The Ministry of Science and Technology - MCT and the Financial Agency for
Studies and Projects - FINEP invite interested institutions to present proposals for
research projects under the Directed Research Program, in accordance with
regulations established in this call for proposals.



31                                    Annex2
Elgible Institutions
The following institutions would be eligible for the research grants program:
a)    Research and development institutions headquartered in Brazil's Legal
Amazon, or outside this region, as long as the proposals presented by
the latter are conceived and executed jointly with institutions from
Brazil's Legal Amazon;
b)    Categories of eligible institutions:
-     Teaching and Research Institutions;
-     Research and Development Institutions, Centers and
Foundations;
-     Technical and Scientific Associations and Societies;
-     Related Agencies;
-     Public and Private Agencies;
-     Other legal public agencies belonging to federal, state and
municipal governments;
-     Non-Governmental Research and Development Organizations;
and
-     Consortia.
Requirement for Applicants and Executing Agencies
Applicants should fulfill all the requirements listed below. Non-compliance
with any of the following items will cause proposals to be disqualified:
a)    currently be performing research and/or development work in areas
related to the PPD;
b)    present the formal agreement for participation by each researcher
involved in the proposed research, specifying their activities,
responsibilities and how long they will work on the project;
c)    present documentation demonstrating the executing institution's legal
status and, if necessary, that of associated executing institutions;
d)    present proof of up-to-date payments to Federal, State and Municipal
Treasuries and to the Social Security Administration, in accordance
with Art. 29 of Law 8.666 dated 6/21193.
In the case of proposals to be carried out by more than one executing agency,
the above requirements should be fulfilled by all participating institutions, with one of
them being designated as the principal proponent.
Propoal Requirements
a) Presentation
(i)    All proposals should be presented in triplicate, be clearly
legible, and include a filled out Grant Application Form and



32                                    Annex2
related documents;
(ii)   The detailed proposal (according to the schedule indicated on
page    of the Grant Application Form for the PPD) should
be written in a clear, concise and precise style and should not
exceed 100 (numbered) pages including appendices and
annexes, typed or printed in double space.
(iii)   On the cover page of the Grant Application Form for the
PPD, applicants should identify the specific call for which
they are submitting their proposals, even if the subjects of the
proposal fall into more than one specific call; and
(iv)   Research project proposals should be sent to the PPD
Coordinating Unit, together with the document required by
this call for proposals, within the specified deadline.
Non-compliance with any of the items indicated above will cause the proposal
to be disqualified.
lt) Suitabilit
(i)    Demonstrate the proposal's relevar.ce with respect to mneeting
the PPD's objectives; and
(ii)   Demonstrate clearly how the research objective meets the
requirements of the specific call.
wnICo
(i)   In organizing the work plan, demonstrate how to fulfill the
objectives of multidisciplinarity, institutional integration and
comprehensive treatment of issues to allow basic knowledge to
be generated and to transfer and properly use it to promote
sustainable development, in accordance with indications
contained in the evaluation parameters explained in this call
for proposals.
Non-compliance with any of the items described above will cause the research
project proposals to be disqualified.
d) Budg
(i)   If proposals are submitted for research projects involving more.
than one executing agency, the specific budgets for each
executing agency must be attached, in addition to the overall
budget (FUAP/PPD, page      ), in accordance with the
conditions established in the Supplementary Guidelines; and
(ii)   Expenses for items dealing with works and installations, and
with permanent equipment and material, may not exceed 40%



33                                    AunZ2
of the proposal's ovrll budget.
Non-compliance with any of the above items, as well as any digression from
financial guidelines stated in the Supplementary Guidelines, will cause proposas to be
disqualified.



34                                    Amn z2
B. DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC CALLS
Call 01
Code: PPD 01.54-01
Scope:                     Generation of knowledge to understand the structure
and function of Amazonian ecosystems and the effects
of human actions on ecosystem processes.
Subject Matter:            See list below.
Available Resources:       US$2.1 million
Value of Bids
for Research Project:      US$300,000124 months
Required Form:             FUAP/PPD
Terms of References
The proposals submitted in response to this specific call should have the
objective of generating scientific knowledge on one or more of the following subjects:
Subject Matter 01: Analysis of the Effects of Human Actions on Ecosystem
Processes:
Impacts of principal regional and global activities on the dynamics of
ecosystem processes.
1.    Effects on the bio-geo-chemical cycle.
2.    Effects on the water cycle.
3.    Effects on biodiversity.
4.    Effects on the energy flow and the dynamics of gas exchange.
Subject Matter 02: Studies on the structure and function of Amazonian ecosystems
with respect to:
1.    The bio-geo-chemical cycle.
2.    The water cycle.
3.    Biodiversity.
4.    Ene,gy flow and the dynamics of gas exchange.



35                                   An=A     2
Call 02
Code: PPD 01/94-M02
Scope:                    Generation of scientific and technological knowledge
applied to the sustainable use of Amazonian
ecosystems.
Subject Matter:           See list below.
Available Resources:      US$2.1 million
Value of Bids
for Research Project:     US$300,000/24 months
Type of Operation:        Institutional Support
Required Form:            FUAPIPPD
Terms of References
The proposals submitted in response to this specific call should have the
objective of generating scientific and technological knowledge on one or more of the
following subjects:
Subject Matter 01: Use and/or Rehabilitation of Degraded Areas:
Development and evaluation of technologies for monitoring, rehabilitation,
management and industrial and commercial use of degraded areas, including the
identification of environmental, political and socio-economic parameters for the
application of new technologies.
Subject Matter 02: Management of Native Forests and Agro-Forestry Systems:
Development of forest management technologies for sustainable economic use.
This includes wood and non-wood resources, wildlife and fish, as well as technologies
for the development of agricultural/forest system.
Subject Matter 03: Economic Use of Biodiversitv:
Evaluation of the economic potential of biodiversity products to obtain bio-
active substances for pharmacological and industrial use. Concrete actions and
interactive multi-disciplinary and multi-institutional participation in the identification
of plants and bio-active substances, chemical isolation, optimization of production,
pharmacological evaluation, and extractive use and methodologies for the commercial
exploitation of species of plants and micro-organisms in the Amazon Region to serve
as a basis to obtain these products.
Proposals should include studies to define the available variability of
interesting species as well as activities for the collection, "ex situ" conservation and
characterization of these species.



36
Call 03
Code: PPD 01/94-03
Soope:                    Socio-cultural
Subject Matter:           See list below.
Available Resources:      US$1.2 million
Value of Bids
for Research Project:     US$300,000/24 months
Type of Operation:        Institutional Support
Required Form:            FUAP/PPD
Terms of References:
'Me proposals submitted in response to this specific call should have the
objective of generating scientific and technological knowledge on one or more of the
following subjects:
Subject Matter 01: Bio-Social Diversity:
Evaluation of ethnic and cultural heritage, including collecting native peoples'
knowledge of biological and non-biological diversity, use of forest resources, and
identification and evaluation of interactions between human groups and the natural
environment on the sustainability of production systems.
Subject Matter 02: Helhk:
Development of alternatives for controlling endemic diseases and epidemics at
an individual and collective level.



37
C. PROPOSAL EVALUATION CRITERIA
The merits of research proposals for projects submitted for the specific calls
under this tender shall be judged according to the following criteria:
Executing Agency: Suitability The Executing Agency shall perform a pre-
evaluation to determine whether the proposal meets the pre-established subject
priorities of this call for proposals. Proposals that do not meet the priorities should
be accompanied by a technical opinion which justifies their elim.nation. Even so,
these proposals should be sent to the Evaluation Commissions to confirm their pre-
qualification. At least two ad hoc consultants will present opinions on each proposal
classified during the pre-evaluation phase.
Evaluation Commissions (EC) The Evaluation Commission shall evaluate each
acceptable proposal, using the following specific criteria:
a.    Scientific Merit
1.    Originality - research should be of an innovative nature and should
increase new scientific knowledge, including up-to-date, state-of-the-
art information on the subject matter to be researched, and should
present clear statements to justify the need for the proposed research.
2.    Coher  Methodology - the methodological model should be of an
experimt ital nature in keeping with the objective of the proposed
research.
3.    Staff Oualifications - the coordinator and his assistants should have
suitable training (at graduate level in the case of the coordinator) and
experience to carry out research using the proposed methodology.
4.    Relevance - besides achieving the anticipated inherent results, research
should also have the potential to facilitate the development of (new or
improved) technologies contributing to the solution of relevant social-
economic problems in the Amazon Region.
5.    Institutional Suitability - the basic structure and previous experience of
the executing institution should be suited to the scope of the research.
b.    Additional Criteria
1.    A uate Budget. The budget should be accurate and cost-efficient
for the purpose of carrying out the research activities within the
proposed timetable.
2.    Adeguate Timetable. The planned timetable for conclusion of
research should allow anticipated results to be achieved.
3.    Integration among various disciplines.



38                                    A
C.    Forms
In order to make the process as objective as possible, the Evaluation
Commission shall utilize a standard form to record, in a qualitative and
quantitative manner, the evaluation of each research proposal. Each member
of the Evaluation Commission shall fill out a separate form for each proposal
evaluated and assign each item (see Part a and b above) a value between 1 and
5; this should be accompanied by relevant comments, if necessary. Another
copy of the same form shall be used to incorporate each individual's notes In
order to obtain a collective evaluation of the proposal being judged.
d.    Minutes of the Evaluation Commission Meeting
In order to make the research proposal evaluation process as transparent as
possible, the Evaluation Commission shall prepare minutes at the conclusion
of its work. These minutes, which should be signed by all the Commission
members, should contain the following information:
1.    identification of activity (place, time, names of participants, purpose,
etc.);
2.    list of proposals according to evaluation notes obtained from the
group;
3.    recommendations, duly justified and based upon the list described
above, on which research projects should be contracted by the
executing agency; and
4.    any other relevant comments.
Proposal evaluations, filled out individually by each member of the Evaluation
Commission, must be attached to these minutes, besides the member who wil
consolidate the group's notes and opinion. These minutes, to be filed In the
Coordinating Unit, may be consulted by World Bank supervision missions.



39                             Am  3
BRAZIL
PIWT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOQ'
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE i
Annex 3: SUMMARY OF THE OPERATIONAL MANUAL
A. GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS
The Operational guidelines of the Directed Research program are contained in
the Operational Manual (see project files list, Annex 7). The principles guiding the
Directed Research Program are the following: (i) research projects shall be evaluated
and selected by ad-hoc reviewers and by an independent Evaluation Commission (EC)
composed of scientists; (ii) research awards shall be made on a competitive basis and
will respond to established priorities (see Process for setting research priorities); (iii)
qualified grantees shall include scientists from universities and other research
institutions, both public and private, located in the Amazon. Additional grantees
might include scientists from outside the region as long as they show proof of working
in close collaboration with an Amazon-based institution; (iv) the Evaluation
Commission (EC) and ad-hoc reviewers shall use a set of pre-established evaluation
criteria based on scientific merit to select proposals and make recommendations; (v)
the program shall enhance Amazon-based research capacity through local, national and
international consortium arrangements; (vi) the program shall promote
multidisciplinary approaches in research design; (vii) the program shall support
participatory research projects that integrate research with natural resources users; and
(viii) the program shall support the needed scientific information to implement other
Pilot Program activities (e.g. demonstration projects, extractive reserves, etc.).
Standard Forms
During the implementation of PADCT, MCT has learned many lessons on
how to administer a grants programs. The Ministry generated forms, models and
documentation that will be very useful in maintaining continuity in the program and
keeping the process transparent and efficient. The Operational Manual (see Annex 7,
list of project documents) has incorporated as part of its annexes a series of standard
forms and documents required at different stages of the project selection process,
contracting and monitoring. These are: (i) a model for calls for proposals (editais)
and complementary guidelines; Cii) grant application forms; (iii) forms to be filed out
by the individual reviewer (ad-hoc or from the Evaluation Commission) when
assessing the scientific merit and relevance of the proposal; (iv) general guidelines
regarding the organization and operation of the Evaluation Commissions; (v) models
of minutes (ata da reuniao) to be prepared by the chairman of the Evaluation
Commission; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation form for awarded projects.



40                               Annex3
Budget characteristics
Individual grants would be limited to a maximum of US$150,000 a year. The
research grants would finance equipment, materials and supplies, travel expenses for
researchers and technicians (airfares and per diem), travel costs for visiting
researchers, some form of scholarship ("bolsa'), contractual services and publication
and other dissemination costs.
Project Evaluation Criteria
Evaluation Commissions (ECs), composed of highly qualified scientists, would
use two main overall criteria for evaluating proposals and making recommendations:
priority of the research and scientific merit. To assess whether a research proposal is
a priority, the Evaluation Commissions would determine if the proposal fits one of the
pre-established priorities mentioned in paragraph 19. To assess scientific merit, the
following specific criteria would be used through a point system: (a) innovative
character of the research; (b) sound methodology; (c) qualifications of applicants; (d)
relevance of the research to development; (e) adequate infrastructure for the research
proposed. In case the demand for funding and the quality of proposals is high,
additional criteria could be used to rank highly meritorious proposals. These
additional criteria are: (i) multidisciplinary approach in research design; (i)
participatory research approach that responds to needs of natural resources users and
disseminates information to users; (iii) support of other Pilot Program activities (e.g.
demonstration projects, extractive reserves, etc.).
N,.
B. MAJOR AREAS FOR FUNDING
The Directed Research program's priorities are to address the sustainable use
and conservation of the rain forest in the Brazilian Legal Amazon. Priorities will
include gaps in the research being carried out now and unmet demands for research
results by natural resources users and decision makers. Four broad sub-programs
have been identified: (i) Amazonian ecosystems' structum and function (e.g. impa
of land use changes on ecosystem function, biodiversity assessments and conservation
strategies); (ii) sustainable natural resource management (e.g. baseline studies on
productivity of different land and water use systems, studies on new or traditionally
used forest products with potential economic value); (iii) socio-econamic and cUtb
Us= (e.g. cultural and social base for the sustainable use of Amazonian
environment; impact of pollution on health); and (iv) low enviromnentaimpact
infrastructure (e.g. adaptive research on renewable energies for direct use in the
Amazon, studies on transport means with low environmental impact). For more
details on the priorities, please see Annex 2.
Process for setting research priorities
Definition of :esearch priorities is a dynamic process that will be carried out
over the duration of the project through various iterations and levels of refinement as
more informaton and results of first testings of the Directed Research program
become available. Initial research priorities were identified according to the four core



41                             Annmex3
areas by public deliberation through a workshop by CORPAM. CORPAM is an
independent commission of representatives from government, NGOs, private groups
and universities. The CORPAM workshop was carried out in May 1993 and
members of CORPAM deliberated, in small groups organized according to the four
core areas, the research needs of the Amazon region at that workshop. This resulted
in a list of research needs ranked in a first approximation of the order of importance
as established by consensus of the participants. The deliberative process captured the
breadth of experience, expertise and interests of the organizations represented by
CORPAM and invited researchers anid ensured that they develop a sense of
partnership in the Directed Research program.
The results of the CORPAM workshop have been supplemented by additional
consultancies with the workshop participants, other members of the scientific
community and the Technical Secretariats of other Pilot Program Projects. Based on
the results of the workshop and consultancies, a first call for proposals based on a
clear assessment of research priorities has been approved by the Bank (see Annex L.
These first research priorities will be revised for the second and third calls for
proposals (when funds becor . available) and they would take into account new
regional demands and needs from other Pilot Program projects.
C. STRUCTURE OF THE DIRECTED RESEARCH PROGRAM
Technical Secretariat (TS).
The project imianagement unit or TS (called Technical Secretariat) would be
under the overall coordination of the Secretariat of Program Coordination (SECOP) of
MCT. The TS is headed by the Executive Secretary of SECOP and seconded by an
adjunct Coordinator from the Support Coordination of Priority Programs (COAP).
Both are appointed by the minister. The TS's main responsibilities would be to: (i)
coordinate and supervise the implementation of all the components of the project
according to the Bank Agreement and the Operational Manual; (ii) execute the
Directed Research component of the project according to the Operational Manual; (iii)
ensure that the recommendations of the Pilot Program International Advisory Group
(TAG) and CORPAM are incorporated during project implementation and review; (tv)
work in close collaboration with the Financial Agent for the project; (v) represent
MCT in the Brazilian Pilot Program Coordinating Commission and report to them on
progress to date; (vi) provide logistical support for the meetings of the different
commissions involved in project implementation; (vii) prepare all documents required
to run the Directed Research Program; (viii) control the flow of resources to all the
intermediary agencies; (ix) prepare monitoring and evaluation reports on the basis of
information provided by the Financial Agent, INPA, MPEG and the beneficiary
institutions; (x) classify the proposals received and organize the Evaluation
Commissions (ECs); and (xi) resolve 'ad-hoc" operational and administrative
discrepancies with the Executing Institutions.
The Technical Secretariat would be headed by a project manager to carry out
the day-to-day work. The responsibilities of the project manager would be: (i)
prepare and disseminate the calls for proposals and other dissemination materials; (ii)
receive and classify the proposals responding to the calls; (iii) organize the ad-hoc



42                             Annex3
review process and the Evaluation Commission; (iv) prepare biannual reports based on
the information received by the Financial Agent and the two institutions; (v) maintain
up-to-date information on the projects being awarded and contracted; (vi) organize
CORPAM workshops to define the research priorities of the Directed Research
Program; (vii) respond to requests for information on the Directed Research program;
(viii) disseminate the program during all stages of its implementation, including the
publication of the quarterly information bulletins (boletins informativos
quadrimestrais); and (ix) ensure that standard bidding documents for purchase of
equipments and civil works by the beneficiary institutions and provide these
documents for use by the Financial Agent.
Evaluation Commission (EC)
The Evaluation Commission would be composed of: (i) a chairman and 5
scientists nominated by the Secretary of the TS with the support of CORPAM; (ii) one
representative from the TS; and (iii) one representative of the Financial Agent. Due to
the multidisciplinary nature of the Directed Research program, the ECs should
comprise a multidisciplinary panel. The ECs assess and make recommendations on
project proposals to be contracted and financed through the Financial Agent. The
ECs evaluate the proposals based on a set of established criteria that would have been
explicit in the calls for proposals and following several guidelines (see Annex 2).
Minutes of the meeting will be written by the chairman and the TS representative.
After a decision has been made on which proposals to fund, the ECs will inform
applicants of the non-selected proposals (through a written statement) of the reasons
supporting its judgments.
Financial Agent
The Financial Agent will be responsible for: (i) preparation of contracts for
the awarded research projects; (ii) monitoring of their technical and financial
execution; (iii) preparation of monthly financial reports for the TS including: (a)
contracted projects; (b) start-up and completion dates; (c) local and international costs
incurred; (d) disbursements made; (e) balance; and (iv) preparation of reports every
semester on: (a) accomplishment of goals; (b) results obtained; and (c) difficulties
encountered. The Financial Agent would also assist the TS in: (1) preparing the calls
for proposals; and (2) supporting the organization of the EC's meeting and
participating in them. In order to avoid the implementation difficulties identified in
PADCT II supervisions and the Mid-Term Review mission, the legal agreements
between MMA, MCT and the Financial Agent would incorporate the following
principles and provisions: (a) a clear schedule for contracting and disbursing funds
from the Financial Agent to the beneficiary; (b) a clear definition of the role of the
FinanciU Agent in providing guidance to beneficiaries in the preparation of financia
reports (prestacao de conta) and in the procurement process, including the
responsibility to provide grantees with project-specific ICB and LCB bidding
documents (editais de concorrencia publica) to be based on the ones used under
PADCT-1I; (c) the right of MCT and/or the Financial Agent to cancel ("denunciar")
the agreements; (d) the right to impose penalties, when necessary; and (e) an
innovative formula to avoid inflation-related devaluation of funds.



43                             Amex 3
Regional Commission for Research in the Amazon (COIRPAM)
CORPAM was created on July 10, 1989 (Law 8896) to advise MCT in the
definition of general directives and strategies to enhance scientific and technological
development in the Amazon. CORPAM is an independent commission comprised of
representatives from EMBRAPA, SUDAM (Superintendency for the Development of
Amazonia), INPA (National Institute for Amazon Research), CNPq (Council for
Scientific and Technological Development), FINEP (Agency for Financing of Studies
and Projects), IBAMA (Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural
Resources), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), private groups, and universities.
Under the Directed Research Program, CORPAM would: (i) prepare programmatic
documents defining research priorities of the Directed Research component; (ii)
provide names of reputable researchers that could serve on the Evaluation
Commission; (iii) advise on programinatic changes of the Directed Research
component proposed by the TS; (iv) disseminate the call for proposals and the results
extensively in the region.
International Group for Scientific Monitoring (IGSM)
The involvement of Brazilian and internationally recognized scientists at the
project and advisory levels would provide credibility within the international scientific
community and facilitate leverage of project resources with funds from other sources.
An International Group for Scientific Monitoring (IGSM) would be established to
assess the program independently. The IOSM would be responsible for carrying out
an independent evaluation of tne Science Centers and Directed Research Project. The
IGSM would meet annually and would submit to the Technical Secretariat detailed
evaluation reports of the components of the project and the impact of the investments
in the Amazon Region. The IGSM would also be responsible for visiting a sample of
research projects funded by the Directed Research component and the two Centers, in
order to assess whether the original objectives have been met. The membership of
IGSM would consist of several members of the GEA (Evaluation Group of PADCT)
and would add four eminent scientists (two Brazilian and two international)
specializing in environmental sciences.
D. ALLOCATION AMONG THEMATIC AREAS IN THE FIRST CALL FOOR
PROPOSALS
The budget allocation among different thematic areas will be as follows:
(i)    Amazonian Ecosystems Structure and Function   US$ 2.1 million
(ii)   Sustainable Natural Resource Management        US$ 2.1 million
(iii)   Socio-economic and Cultural Systems          US$ 1.2 million



44                             Annec 3
E. DONOR COORDINATION DURING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Several bilateral and international agencies are active in scientific research
activities in Brazil. Donor coordination is not systematic and needs to be enhanced.
The different forms of bilateral cooperation existing in Brazil include: (i) Technical
Cooperation (through ABC/MRE); (ii) Scientific and Technological Cooperations
(through DCTEC/MRE and CNPq); (iii) Financial Cooperation (through SEAIN) and;
(iv) Institutional Cooperation (direct to institutions; Canada is the only case). The
Secretary of Program Coordination (SECOP) in the Ministry of Science and
Technology would execute directly new funds committed and pledge before appraisal
to the program and would ensure donor coordination for other forms of cooperation
during the implementation of the Directed Research component.
Direct Execution
The Directed Research component is based on the availability of a core of
US$5.7 million of new funds during Phase I. These funds would come from the Rain
Forest Trust Fund and from Bilateral Financial Cooperation (directly or through the
Bank). Under this financial arrangement, the funds would be managed directly by
MCT as a grants program and through its calls for proposals similar to that operated
under the on-going PADCT.
Coordination for Non-Filnandal Cooperation
Other forms of non-financial bilateral cooperation could support the Directed
Research Program. Non-financial bilateral cooperation has the following
characteristics in relation to the Directed Research project: (i) the requirements that
will be written in the call for proposals are incompatible with the bilateral
cooperation's requirements. This makes it impossible for most bilateral projects to
compete in the grant program; (ii) the categories of budget items to be funded under
bilateral projects is very different from those that will be in place for the Directed
Research; and (iii) many bilateral projects have already been selected and this takes
away the spirit of truly open international competition. The non-financial bilateral
projects would enter in the Directed Research in the following way: (i) bilateral
projects follow the normal rules and regulations of the Brazilian agencies in charge of
bilateral cooperation (ABC/MRE, DCTEC/MRE); (ii) simultaneously, new project
candidates for the Directed Research coordination would be submitted to the same
coordinating unit of the Directed Research that will receive the proposals in response
to the "editais" (call for proposals). These new projects would be subject to an
evaluation; (iii) the evaluation criteria would be different from evaluation criteria of
the other bilateral cooperation agencies and would consist of: (a) degree of scientific
merit; and (b) integration within the policy framework of the Directed Research
program. That is, they respond to research priorities established by MCT and
CORPAM; and (iv) those projects that are approved are counted as part of the
Directed Research project. This type of contribution could enhance coordination
among donors and Brazilian research institutions. Use of the Directed Research
component as a clearing house and prime mechanism to channel support to directed
research could avoid unnecessary duplication of research efforts and enhance cost-
effectiveness.



45                              AmB4
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
Annex 4: PROGRESS ON IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGIC PLANNING
A. BACKGROUND
The Need for Strategic Planning
In May 1992, in response to a request from the Brazilian government, the US
National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences selected a Scientific
Advisory Group to assist the Brazilian government with an assessment of INPA and
MPEG and to identify actions and needs for developing these institutions as model
Science Centers in the Amazon region. The major deficiencies found by the Advisory
Group were: (i) lack of clear institutional guidelines and focused research goals; (ii)
low salaries and exodus of the most qualified staff; (iii) lack of efficiency in research
administration; (iv) lack of coordination with other institutions; (v) deteriorated
infrastructure and lack of facilities for field research; (vi) lack of necessary
equipment; and (vii) lack of a performance evaluation system. The Advisory Group
recommended that the two Centers undertake through a strategic planning exercise to
address some of these deficiencies and strengthen the institutions.
In February 1993, during a technical visit to Washington by representatives of
the Brazilian government, the terms of reference for a strategic planning exercise for
the two Centers were approved as a pre-investment study. The overall objectives of
the strategic planning exercise would be to establish and define: (i) general
institutional guidelines; (ii) broad thematic areas for research; and (iii) administrative
and institutional mechanisms to transform the institutions into Centers of Excellence.
During this visit, the Brazilian and Bank team agreed that because a strategic planning
process can take a very long time, only the most critical outputs would be expected
for appraisal. These critical outputs were: (a) a clear definition of the institutional
mission, objectives and research agenda; and (b) definition of an evaluation system for
the institution and its staff.
The strategic planning exercise for the two institutions was initiated on March
1, 1993. Preliminary results of this exercise were presented to a Bank mission in
May 1993. At that stage of the exercise, since few of the outputs were ready, the
Bank mission was able to review information on the process and methodology being
used. During the appraisal mission, the preliminary results of the planning exercise
were presented by the Brazilian counterpart officials and their consultants and were
evaluated by the appraisal team. The following sections present a brief description of
the methodology used, and outputs of the strategic planning, as well as the appraisal
team's assessment of the exercise. In addition, new information on the strategic
planning exercise of INPA are also incorporated into the next sections.



46                              Amex4
Methodology
The methodology selected for the strategic planning exercise was participatory
and systematic and sought to integrate studies describing regional issues with an
internal analysis of the institutions including a careful examination of the internal
organizational structure. In addition, the strategic planning process was carried out in
such a way as to ensure continued long-term strategic planning processes in the
institutions. The details of the methodology are presented in Figure 1.
To initiate the planning process, each institution established a planning group.
INPA's planning group consisted of 13 department heads and 27 researchers and
informal leaders. MPEG's planning group consisted of a total of 30 staff, including
department heads, researchers and informal leaders. Then, each institution organized
different task forces (i.e. scenarios, sectoral needs analysis, internal institutional
diagnostic, research priorities and production system needs). A larger number of staff
were involved in the internal diagnostic questionnaire (i.e. 311 participants at INPA).
B. PRESENT STATUS
During the appraisal mission, the two institutions, assisted by two consultants,
presented progress to date on the strategic planning exercise. Progress had been made
on the identification of the mission, external scenarios and their implications for the
two Centers, institutional objectives, research priorities and internat diagnostic. The
main results of the strategic planning process are presented below, except for INPA
which included the results presented into their recently completed finl report.
Mission Statements
ENA          To generate, promote and disseminate scientific and
technological knowledge about the Amazon for the
conservation of the environment and sustainable development
of its natural resources, principally in benefit of the regional
population.
MPEG         To produce and disseminate scientific knowledge and
collections related to the natural and socio-culturat systems of
the Amazon region.
External Scenarios
The two Centers identified three different scenarios that pose different externa
situations likely to occur over the ten next years and to determine appropriate
proactive institutional strategies for each scenario. The three scenarios can be
summarized as follows:
1.    Rapid expansion of the economic frontier with non-sustainable
exploitation of natural resources.
2.    Pockets of predatory extractivism co-existing with sustainable



47                                Annex4
development on a localized basis.
3.     Sustainable development for an improved quality of life without
degradation of the environment.
Implications of Scenarios
The two Centers determined the most important implications of these
scenarios for their priority actions.
for IPA
1.    Diversification of funding sources.
2.     Emphasis on applied and technological research.
3.     Recommended multidisciplinary research.
4.    Increased multi-institutional projects and coordination.
5.    Improved interaction with technology users.
6.    Improved planning, flexibility and objectivity.
for MPEG
1.    Increased multidisciplinary and inter-institution projects.
2.    Improved and intensified dissemination strategies.
3.     Creation of a science and technology reference center.
4.    Intensified biodiversity research and conservation strategy.
5.     Attraction of highly qualified researchers to the region.
6.    Increased international financial and scientific resources.
Strategic Institutional Objectives
The next step in tic 3trategic planning process was to identify the general
objectives that the institutions intend to pursue in order to fulfill their mission.
Figures 2 and 3 present the objectives for INPA and MPEG in a hierarchical way.
The objectives listed first (1-5) represent the broader goals, while the rest of the
objectives support the fulfillment of the broader goals in the day-to-day activities.
Internal Diagnostic
The internal diagnostic is a critical stage in the strategic exercise since it
identifies the strengths and weaknesses of the institutions and allows them to strategize
based on this information. The internal diagnostic at INPA consisted of several
internal analyses: (i) research projects; (ii) scientific production; and (iii)
administration and management. The internal diagnostic at MPEG focused more on
the administrative management analysis (as presented in the interim report). Figures 4
and S present In a schematic way the results of the internal diagnostic at INPA and
MPEG.
Priority Research in the Two Centers
INPA and MPEG staff identified priority lines of research based on the result
of the analysis of external scenarios, internal diagnostic and objectives of the
institutions. The identified research priorities do not correspond exactly with existing



48                             Amex4
departnents.
INPA
1.    Taxonomy, evolution and biogeography of flora and fauna.
2.    Biology and ecology of flora and fauna.
3.    Meteorology and biogeochemical and hydrological cycles.
4.    Tropical silviculture for sustainable forestry.
S.    Limnology.
6.    Fisheries resource management.
7.    Rural production systems of the Amazon and the management of
genetic resources.
8.    Chemistry of natural products.
9.    Technology of forest products.
10.   Aquaculture.
11.   Food technology.
12.   Health and nutrition.
13.   Environmnental impacts of anthropic actions.
14.   Human ecology and social sciences.
15.   Rehabilitation of degraded areas.
16.   Wildlife management.
MPEG
1.    Taxonomy, inventory and analysis of biodiversity.
2.    Origin and dynamics, management and conservation of natural systems
of the Amazon.
3.    Use and economic value of biodiversity.
4.    Interface between ecological processes and human social systems.
5.    Multi-cultural formation of pre-historic Amazon.
6.    Dynamics and impacts of social change as a result of the
contemporary occupation process of the Amazon.
7.    Ethnological diversity.
8.    Traditional cultures.
New Structure at INPA
INPA now has 13 research departments, organized classically along lines of
discipline (agronomy, ecology, silviculture, sociology, etc.) Ihe structure proposed
as a result of the strategic planning exercise is to create six research programs:
* Biodiversity and environmental conditions of the Amazon basin
* Neotropical biology and ecology
* Management and use of natural resources of the Amazon forests
* Systems of rural production
O Human populations and the Amazon environment
* Climatology and water resources
Each of these six programs would have a coordinating unit, whose
responsibilities would include identifying key research problems and questions;
articulading research relevant to their solution; developing funding sources;
coordinating research projects; and disseminating results. Each program would be



49                              Annex 4
strongly focused toward human needs in the region, and would promote innovative
technology and multidisciplinary, multi-institutional efforts. There would be efforts to
identify the major beneficiaries and users of research, and to orient programs to their
needs.
This new structure would not entirely replace the existing disciplinary
hierarchy. Rather, it would be a "progressive transformation' which would promote a
"horizontal" integration of the various disciplines and departments, while allowing the
classic "vertical" structure to remain in key departments. Maintaining a balance
between the horizontal and vertical lines would be pursued during the transition
period.
C. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
The two institutions initiated a participatory process in which formal and
informal leaders, as well as employees in general, could take part in defining strategic
projects to move the institutions toward becoming Centers of Excellence. The
definition of Center of Excellence by the strategic planning staff included the notion
that a Center of Excellence has to have strong impact on both knowledge and social
change. The strategic planning took place in a difficult context - many years of scarce
financial resources, exodus of highly qualified staff and internal institutional conflicts -
and achieved in a short period of time a commitment to planning by a large majority
of employees that was not previously present. The methodology was more or less
standard practice for the discipline of strategic planning. That is, there were clear
attempts to define the mission, analyze the external and internal conditions, and select
"strategic" program activities. Task forces were created to analyze specific sectors
and create project plans. During this initial process of strategic planning, lessons
were learned rapidly which can be incorporated into successive planning processes.
TMe following are some of the most important lessons learned and recommended
future developments.
External Evaluations
INPA and MPEG have followed essentially identical processes of strategic
planning, with somewhat different results. The difference is probably due to the fact
that more outside institutional evaluations were available for INPA, which facilitated
the strategic process by providing up-dated information. For example, the Ministry of
Science and Technology, through "Portaria" No. 475, constituted a High-level
Commission to develop a strategy to strengthen INPA. The study "O INPA como
Centro de Excelencia em Pesquisas na Amazonia" was published in January 1993 and
included a review of the quality of work of INPA's research departments. Two
departments - Ecology and Aquatic Biology - stood out for their high quality. This
information was used in the internal diagnostic step of the strategic planning.
Significantly, INPA has decided to concentrate on strengthening these two
departments as part of its strategy to reestablish INPA as a Center of Excellence.
This type of information seems to have been less available for MPEG since their
internal diagnostic focused more strongly on administrative and managerial analyses.
Institutional evaluations by outside commissions (as was done for INPA) would
provide the right type of information and diagnostic analyses to proceed more easily
to prioritizing activities in an institution through a strategic planning exercise.



50                               Annex4
Participation
It is a fundamental principle of strategic planning that the process does not
proceed until key players are all committed to the planning exercise. The definition
of key players should include representatives from all the different functions of the
institution (research, administration, dissemination, etc..). In a research institution
such as INPA and MPEG, it is critical to seek the views of highly qualified
researchers during certain stages of the strategic planning exercise (i.e. definition of
research priorities, staff, project and institutional evaluation, international cooperation
strategies). The consultation of research priorities could also be enhanced if it is done
by outside experts that could provide a larger context of the institutional vision.
These consultations would not only ensure that a scientific vision is kept, but it would
also help ensure that administration services and functions will support scientific
development and not impede it.
Scientific Strategy
During the steps of the strategic planning process, the external scenarios were
identified, which led to a series of conclusions about the importance of
multidisciplinary and applied research. Normally this phase of planning should review
specific opportunities for achievement, and should identify the institution's competitive
position relative to others who might carry out similar programs. The institution
would then proceed with programs where its competitive position was strong, and
decide to abandon or strengthen areas of weakness. This method recognizes that there
is a limit to the number of areas in which a single institution can achieve excellence
and success, especially when financial resources are quite limited.
Both institutions have adopted an initial scientific strategy for the project that
focuses on areas where each is stronger, and on priority areas identified in the
Directed Research Program. The institution's competitive position with respect to
other institutions has not yet been analyzed in great detail. This has resulted in the
fact that, at this time, the two institutions have not addressed the difficult issue of
determining which research areas may need to be phased out given the overall
mandate of the two Centers. This analysis and a subsequent decision by each Center
is sufficiently important that it would be completed before subsequent support to
scientific research is initiated.
As a continuation of the strategic planning exercise, the two institutions would
carry out an external evaluation study to determine the difficult issue of which
research areas may need to be phased out given the overall mandate of the two
institutions. MCT would coordinate external institutional evaluations for each Center
by the time of the mid-term review and the results and actions from these evaluations
would be taken prior to appraisal of a Phase 11 of the project.



0~~~~~~~I~ ~
X1 E~~~~~~~~~~-C '3                                                    1 X  "
VII
Z.I  A                    S =                           
W S . : S!!i3 g (~S    9 
U'             I . r         S                       
SB E L   g   Z0                                                          v~~~~~~~~~~E 
.|20.S~~~~ 1 1S.e 
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I             5  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
0-i~ ~ ~ ~~-
-w     Z
In        p
L U           c
-- - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 9



52                                     Annex
FIGURE 2: OBJECTIVES OF INPA
To PAR7ICIPATE IN REGICONAL OEYELOPNENT
POLICY PRCUOTING THE USE Of NATURAL
RESOURCES WMT MT P-ROTECTION AND USE
.          ~~~IN 8ENEFIT Of THE POPULUATION.                                     .. 
TO PROMOTE THE oIFFUSICN OF S&T To THE                 T  PROVIDE  SERVICES  TO  THE
PRIOOUCTION SECTCR                                     CCMMUNITY IN THE USE OF NATURAL    .
.  RESORCES.
TO GENERATE SCIENTIFIC ANO TECHNOLOGICAL            To CONTRI3UTE TO RAISING THE REGIONAL CAPA-
KNOWLEDGE  FCR  THE  SOLUTION  OF  ENVI-            CITY FOR R&D PREPARING AND ESTABLISHING HU-
RONMENTAL AND PROOUCTICN PROBLEMS                   MAN RESCURCES
TO INCREASE KNOWLEDGE ABOUT NATURAL RESOURCES AND
|AUA20IAN ECOSSYSTE51S
t   .-..----.---  _ _ -   _____._ _ _._ _ .... . _ + ._  _          _
4     _----- -   --------
0  DIY VE ANlC  ENIANCE            TO HAVE C1PASLE AND MOTMIAT          TO  MORNIZE AND m     mINI
MTW nH    ocUEsrMC    |  1STAFF                I     UPTAE THERESEEARC  AND MANA-
AND DINTMTINAL RESEARCH I                                               GQE   AFE                                   I
UOSTALL EFFECTIYE RM ICATION  AND LOGISrtC
I                                             AuPR                                   I
t                                     I
TO  RETE MECHMiiD      FOR OBTAINNING MST RESMOURS 
I                                             1
FOR RMARCHFO
I       TO HAT E EH TrNS       AUS
,~~~~~~~~~~~~    1
I_                                                                        I
I TOPERING 5z53 HATE  A   PARI TCIPATAE             A
f    ,,_ ,,,, *,, ,,_.. .  _........ ...... ..............................



53                                   AmeX4
FIGURE 3: OBJECTIVES OF MPEG (1993-2003)
1. CONTRIBUTE  TO                  . CONTRIBUTE T
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT              THE ADVANCE OF
AND NATURAL RESOURCE              SCIENTIFIC
CONSERVATION                      KNOWLEDGE
tt
3. CONTRIBTE TO  THE         4. DEVELOP RESEARCH        S. BECOME A REGI
FOnUTION OF REGIONAL         ON BIOLOGICAL AND          CEN   FOR DIFFUSION
DEVELOPMENT AND CONSER-       CULTJRAL DIVERSITY        OF SCIENTIFIC  KNOW-
VATION POLICIES               IN THE AMAZON              LEDG   ABOUT  THE
AMAZON
~~~~~f.
6. BECOME A SCIENCE CENTER OF
.v  EXCELLENCE  N  RESEARCH  AND
7. COSERVE.  WLI          8. REINOR     I -          9. NCNTATE            1t. 7RAIN    GEIT
IWOATE AND DOON           ISTMITULT        RELA-     INDTR AND JLTI-       QUALIFI    PER9l_
mO   SCIEIC               TIONIPS IN RESEARCH        DISCIPLINARY          FOR  RESEM        AND
CILECTIONS                AND WITH USERS             ACTIVIS               DIFFUSIM
11. ESTABLIU 12. MAINTAIN             13. HAVE A PARTI-        14. MVE COE        IS. D0IFY
PRIORITIS FOR       PER50NIIQ         CIPATE AND DECEN-        OF ETHICS AND        SOUR        OF
RESEARCH STRA-      UP-TO-DATE        TRALIZED  ORGANIZA-      PROFESSIK&           FUING
TESIC FOR IHE       AND AT FULL       TION                     C Cr
REGION              COMPLEMENT
RHbII                4
X                                                           -   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *  i.



54                     k4
FIGURE 4:
INTERNAL DIAGNOSTIC - RESEARCH ACTIVITIES
FOR INPA
R&D Projects and Activities (last 5 years)
145 Projects   37% 0Basic Research
29% Applied Research
34% Basic/applied
86 Activities   40% Basic Research
23% Applied
37% Basic/applied
Users/Beneficiaries
1. Researchers
2. Teachers
3. Government
4. Prnductiorusystem
5. Privat companies
intemational Cooperation
* Over 50 operational cooperation agreements
* 72% basic research; 28% applied
Scientific Publication
. 906 items published
. 301 national, 258 intemational journals
* 99 Thesis
* 86 Book chapters
. 162 Articie in science congress annals
* 2.3 annual publicatfons per Ph.D.
* 0.57 annual publications per researcher



55                                    A    x
FIGURE 5:
INTERNAL DIAGNOSIS: FUNCTIONAL CAPABILITY
FOR MPEG
it. INS-rtUCNAL AD IMANAGEIAL - SUPPORT
INSTIT. @EVLQPUVET-   EZALLVALUATION
-SCIETIFIC COR. --CTC
LEGAL SMRCTURE        CC
PARAOIGG          v                          Ol~~~~~~~~DFFUSioN  INTERMEDATE
Z     EARND   FINAL
P [3CT                         TEC D                 ,
sc etr=                                 TRU              USERSEAWER
;~~                    ~     ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~ I                  I 
4. TEEMIQUU SIORT r       S. MATERI SUPPR           6. ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPT
-   L- ENSTALATTOS                                   PATRIMONY
- tIUtp                  - PtCMAS:N
Wtmlkd                  - tISMtS                 - TRUSGR
-  UARATORIES             - UT2LtTZCS              - SALARISUEUTS
- TEtNICANSUC             - MAETAN                 - AmU. IXtOMTI2   N
- COLLECTIONS
t
I                                                        ,
7. IMAN RES8CES         . FIANCIAL RESOURCES       9. SYSTEM RESUC
- CAPAC?TATION         - SUGGT                     - PtAN S IVALUAT2tg SVSTEM
.aS Trptc           - SOURCE OtVERStFtCATtON    - ACCOUNTING
*TECHNICIANS
.AftMtUSMSTR V       - INOOIENT                  _ PROCEAcEs MAmULS
- PRa Cr FWItNG             - OGRAlZATION/INGOS
-  STAIfFtUG                                       - OUGNIZATtZN CULPTRAL
-                                                  - cPUr4s  _    LZCAT?ONs
v      '                                   - MULTWISCZPLZM"ATy



56                             AneS
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
Annex 5: LONG-TERM STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT OF
THE SCIENCE CENTERS
A. BACKGROUND
In 1985, the Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT) initiated the Support
Program for Scientific and Technological Development (PADCT), partly funded by
Bank loan 2489-BR, to support basic research through a competitive grants program
administered by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MCT). In 1990, the Bank
approved another loan for a second phase of PADCT (Loar 3269-BR). PADCT I and
U focused primarily on providing funding to individual research projects, and to a
lesser extent in solving institutional bottlenecks that impede science development.
MCT recognized that research projects cannot prosper without a sound research
infastructure, and decided to initiate a pilot experiment to strengthen selected
rsearch institutions. MCT chose two established research institutions in the Amazon
(the National Institute for Amazon Research (INPA) in Manaus and the Emilio Goeldi
Museum of Para (MPEG) in Belem) that had a long tradition of sound ecological and
anthropological research that has suffered in recent years due to the chronic
macroeconomic crisis in Brazil.
The two targeted Centers will serve as pilot cases where many new
approaches to institutional strengthening would be tested Oegal reform, incentive
systems based on demonstrated performance, diversification of funding sources, etc.).
If successful other centers could be added in the future. The Science Centers
component would support this initiative and would address the need to change and
build new institutional models and mechanisms that enhance science development.
Sufficient resources would be provided based on demonstrated performance and as
incentives to greater research productivity. In addition, the financial support would
restore the Centers' basic infrastructure and equipment to their former status but
would not substitute for the present level of funding from the Federal Government.
The two Centers would provide an important logistical and infrastructural base
for research, advanced training, and information collection, storage, processing, and
dissemination that would benefit Pilot Program projects. The Centers will also engage
in research activities that will support individual Pilot Program projects, and also
function as a "laboratory without walls", i.e., by cooperating actively with other
scientific institutions in the Amazon region, in other regions of Brazil, and world-
wide. Interationally, open Centers will better be able to ensure the quality of their
research, its focus on Pilot Program objectives and the cost-effectiveness of the funds
invested in them.



57                             AnnexS
C. LONG-TERM STRATEGY OF THE CENTERS
In order for the two institutions to become sufficiently strong to be recognized
as Centers of Excellence, they will need to attain the following long-term goals: (i)
conduct high-quality, relevant and coordinated research; (ii) collect, process,
disseminate and ensure the utilization of information; (iii) attract and be able to serve
as a well-equipped base for their own researchers and visiting scientists; (iv) provide
leadership in the region and worldwide by continually reassessing their role and by
attracting and managing international projects; and (v) provide the scientific and
technological services necessary for the sustainable development in the region.
The Brazilian government proposed a long-term strategy for science and
technology activities in the Amazon under the Pilot Program that is presented in the
progress report of the October 1991 World Bank/Commission of European
Communities (CEC) technical mission to Brazil. The activities under this long-term
strategy were estimated at US$48 million and would provide US$18 million for the
Directed Research Program and US$30 million for the Science Centers. The long-
term strategy for the two Centers would be implemented in three stages:
1.    EMERGENCY ASSISrANCE: the United States and the Brazilian
governments are financing an emergency infrastructure and equipment
rehabilitation project for the two Centers. This emergency project of
US$5 million is an integral part of this project, but will be financed
under a different contractual arrangement;
1I.    PHASE I: This first phase would initiate the institution's
reorganization, improved management and decision making, enhanced
human capacity, and dissemination of information and would continue
to support additional infrastructure and equipment rehabilitation not
included in the Emergency Assistance; and
[.  PHASE II: This phase, not fully defined yet, would finance additional
institutional reform and fundraising capabilities as well as other
infrastructure and equipment activities. Financial availability for this
phase has not been specified yet.
Only the Emergency Assistance and Phase I are described in this Annex
because financing for Phase II has not yet been identified.
C. DESCRIPTMON OF PHASES
L EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE FOR THE TWO CENTERS (US$5 million)
The current ability of INPA and MPEG to function as effective institutions is
severely compromised in the very short term by a set of problems resulting from
inadequate basic infrastructure and equipment. These problems require immediate
action or the deterioration will continue to cause irreparable damage. The US
Government, through its Forests for the Future Initiative, has agreed to finance these
emergency needs. The Emergency Phase of the Science Centers would include:



58                             AW4x5
ParLa: Emerg,ency assistance at INPA
1. Rehabilitation of the water supply, drainage and sewage system through: (a)
rehabilitation of the rainwater drainage system; (b) construction of water towers with
increased capacity to prevent interruption in the water distribution at V-8 campus; (c)
construction of artisan wells for Aleixo 1, Aleixo II and V-8 campuses; and (d)
installation of a sewage treatment system capable of handling reagent and chemical
products used in research and of collection of solid residues.
2. Installation of a fire protection network and purchasing of fire hydrants and
extinguishers.
3. Preparation and execution of a plan for the maintenance of buildings and
equipment.
4. Strengthening of project management through contracting of procurement, external
auditor and monitoring and evaluation services.
EPsLb: Emergency assistance at MPEG
1. Reconditioning, climate conditioning and securing for the biological, social
sciences and library collections through: (a) general repairs in most collection rooms,
(roof and ceilings, replacement of the air conditioning and dehumidifier systems and
other minor repairs); (b) purchase of new cabinets, air conditioners and other
equipment needed for the storage of social sciences, biology and library materials; and
(c) expansion of additional floor space for the educational library (Clara Galvao) and
of facilities for the xylarium.
2. Modernization of communication systems at MPEG through: (a) installation of a
new telephone central at the Research Campus for the current level of use and with
the possibility of expansion for future levels; (b) installation of a fax machine in each
departnent, directorate and division; and (c) purchase of a PBX telephone central and
ten telephone lines for the new fax machines.
3. Rehabilitation of the water and electric system at MPEG through: (a) automation
of the water reservoir and tower at the Research Campus; and (b) redimensioning of
the water distribution network at the Zoobotanical Park; and (c) upgrading of the
electric system at MPEG both at the Research Campus and at the Zoobotanical Park.
4. Consolidation of the editorial office and purchasing of equipment (computers,
printers and software) for desk-top publishing and for camera-ready documents that
would improve the quality and reduce the costs of publishing.
5. Construction and remodeling of the veterinary complex at MPEG. The proposed
complex will contain areas for: Animal Nutrition, Veterinary Medicine, Animal
Isolation, Bioterium, Keepers' Room, Locker Room and Administration, all with new
and adequate equipment.
6. Purchase of one field vehicle for each research department: Botany, Zoology,
Ecology, and Social Sciences.



59                             AnnleI
7. Preparation and execution of a plan for the maintenance of buildings and
equipment.
8. Strengthening of project management through contracting of procurement, external
auditor and monitoring and evaluation services.
Eart : Other activities at the two institutions
1. Upgrade and redimensioning of the electric system at INPA through: (a) overhaul
and upgrading the wiring to meet current and future needs of all facilities of INPA,
providing standby generators for the V-8 campus (departments of Ecology, Tropical
Forestry, Agronomy, Food Technology and Fishery), Aleixo campus (departments of
Health Science, Aquatic Biology, Botany and Phytochemistry) and completing
immediate rewiring needs at the V-8 campus; (b) development of nodes of
uninterrupted, high quality and high capacity power, by using dedicated power
sources totally independent of the city supply (generators) or a UPS/standby generator
system coupled with instruments that have a power buffer; and (c) installation of an
Atmospheric Protection System for all INPA's facilities.
2. Modernization of communication systems at INPA through: (a) installation of a
telephone network with an automatic center, making possible immediate installation of
direct lines in all research departments or administrative units, including installation of
computer-linked systems (such as Internet); and (b) installation of a radiophone system
for the permanent bases (experimental stations and reserves) and temporary bases of
data collecting to communicate with the main campus (Aleixo) that would promote
safety and expedite data linkges.
3. Reconditioning, climate conditioning and securing for the
anthropological/archeological and library collections at MPEG, through: (a) purchase
of new cabinets and other equipment needed for the storage of these collections; and
(b) purchase of bibliographic materials.
4. Strengthening of data processing and publication services at MPEG and purchasing
of computer and network capabilities for researchers and of modern photocopy
machines.
5. Improvement of the scientific equipment needed for research through: (a)
acquisition of new research equipment and materials; (b) repairing of damaged
vehicles and scientific equipment.
6. Support for general maintenance services.
7. Contracting of services in administration, accounting and financial management.
II. PHASE I (US$9.4 million, including contingencies and financial administration
fees)
This first phase would initiate the instiutions' reorganization, improved
management and decision makdng, enhanced human capacity, and dissemination of
information and would continue to support additional infrastructure and equipment



60                              Annex S
needs. Phase I of the Science Centers would support the following sub-components at
INPA and MPEG: (a) strengthen the institutional management and administration
functions; @) support the rehabilitation and expansion of research infrastructure and
equipment; (c) increase human resource capacity in scientific research and education;
(d) disseminate research results; (e) provide technical assistance in science and
dissemination management from ODA; (f) provide technical assistance to the project
implementation unit; and (g) support key policy studies and plans at MPEG.
(a) Institutional management and administration. In order to strengthen the
institutions' overall administrative and management functions, the following
activities would be supported in both institutions:
(i) implementation of a regular system of planning, monitoring, and
evaluation. As part of this activity, a strategic planning exercise to
define research priorities and mission statements has been underway at
INPA and MPEG since March 1993 and preliminary results were
reviewed by the appraisal team. INPA's final report was received at
the end of February 1994 and MPEG's final report was received at the
end of May 1994. Progress to date on the results of the strategic
planning is described in Annex 4. As a continuation of the strategic
planning exercise, an external evaluation would be carried out by the
ISGM at the time of the mid-tern review. The goal of this evaluation
would be to review the structure and functions of the institutions as
they relate to the project and to determine the difficult issue of which
research areas may need to be phased out given the overall mandate of
the two institutions. The results and actions from these evaluations
would have to be taken prior to appraisal of a Phase II of the project;
(ii) improvement of international and national scientific exchange and
technical cooperation. Both institutions would revise their operational
procedures and improve them so that international and national
scientific cooperation is enhanced. A monitoring system to track
present and potential cooperation would also be developed;
(iii) improvement of administrative procedures, including the
preparation of new procedures for personnel and financial management
and development of a training program for administrative staff; and
(iv) strengthening of a development office and the assurance of long-
term support. The specific activities to be carried out are the
development of a workshop to discuss funding techniques, a study to
define a diversified funding strategy for the two institutions,
preparation of operational procedures of the office, and training of
staff in fundraising techniques.
In addition to these activities, the project has financed as a pre-investment
study a reform of the institutions that was reviewed during appraisal. The
study recommended the enactment by Congress of a specific law for research
institutions. Due to the legal complexities of enacting such a law, the
suggestion to have this law approved during the life of the project was not
pursued. The Bank's recommendation is that for the execution of this project



61                             Amnex5
it is not necessary to alter the legal status of INPA and MPEG, as long as
both CNPq and MCT agree to continue to delegate to INPA and MPEG the
necessary iegal authority for project execution. A limited delegation of
powers already exists and should be maintained. INPA seeks an expansion of
its authority. In the short to medium term, it seems feasible and desirable to
transform INPA into a so-called "autonomous institution ("orgio
autonomo"), as proposed by the commission created by MCT to study the
issue. An autonomous institution would continue to be part of the Federal
Government, but with more institutional independence. A Decree signed by
the President is necessary to proceed with the suggested modification. INPA
and MPEG have proposed the creation of a private foundation to facilitate
their national and international project implementation and fundraising efforts.
However, if this institution is created, the formal linkage between INPA and
this proposed institution would require further review by the Bank in
connection with this pilot program.
(b) Rehabilitation and expansion of research infrastructure and equipment. In
order to up-grade the research infrastructure and equipment that have
deteriorated in recent years, this sub-component would support the following
activities at INPA: (i) expansion and turnishing of laboratory space for the
Aquatic and Ecology Department; (ii) expansion and furnishing of space for
zoological and botanical collections; (iii) installation of a fire control system in
the library, herbarium and zoological collections building; (iv) improvement
of collections maintenance and management; (v) modernization and equipment
of the library; (vi) modernization of computer and rnetwork capabilities for
researchers; (vii) acquisition of boats and vehicles for field research; (viii)
rehabilitation of two existing floating field stations in the floodplains and one
station near Manaus (ZF-2); and (ix) improvement of research equipment
utilization and acquisition and refurbishing of research equipment. The
following activities would be supported at MPEG: (J) improvement of the
basic electric, telephone and water services at the Research Campus; (ii)
expansion of the zoology collection building and installation of new insulating
roofs for the zoology collections building (birds/reptiles and entomology
buildings) and anthropological collections building; (iii) acquisition of most.
needed research equipment and materials; and (iv) modernization of computer
capabilities and development of a well-designed information system to
promote communication between individuals and disciplines. The sub-
component would also support at both Centers the consolidation of the
engineering/maintenance unit to provide high-quality services for the
mainenance of buildings and equipment. A plan for the maintenance of
buildings and equipments at both Centers, acceptable to the Bank, would be
prepared and carried out during project implementation.
(c)    Imrovement in human resource capacity in scientific research and
educeio. To secure highly qualified research staff in both institutions,
incentives must be created and applied on the basis of demonstrated
performance. To accomplish this objective, the following activity would be
supported in both institutions: (i) development of a staff performance
evaluation system that would be implemented at the beginning of the project
and would be used to apply the different incentives dezribed below. In
addition, the following activities would be supported at INPA: (i) development



62                              Annex 5
of an exchange program for researchers at the Ph.D. level to make them
competitive at the national and international levels; and (ii) support to the
INPA graduate program by providing resources to students for field work and
to complete their theses. Support to the graduate program would also include
equipment to improve classroom and laboratory conditions for students. At
MPEG, the following activities would be supported: (i) development of an
international exchange program for Ph.D. level staff; (ii) development of a
grants program for young scientists; (iii) development of a training program
for curators; and (iv) development of a workshop at the Caixuana reserve.
Procedures to evaluate staff performance, satisfactory to the Bank, are being
prepared and would be used during project implementation.
(d) Dis3emination of research results. In order to promote the dissemination
and use of the generated research results, the project would finance the
following activities at INPA: (i) publication of four issues of the scientific
journal, 'Acta Amazonica" and of two scientific books; (ii) publication of
booldets and semi-scientific books on applied technology research and
extension services; (iii) development of a high-quality film on INPA as a
research institution and its role in conserving and managing the Amazon rain
forest; (iv) support for an international congress on Amazon fisheries; and (v)
support for t.'e iunsolidation of an in-house publication office. At MPEG, the
following activities would be financed: (i) improvement of the library
collections, equipment and management; (ii) support for the in-house
publication office; (iii) production of six issues of the museum's
environmental bulletin; and (iv) preparation of a master plan for refurbishing
MPEG's major exhibits hall.
(e) Technical assistance from Overseas Development Agency: The Overseas
Development Agency has recommended that the following activities be funded
under the project: (i) study visits by senior staff and training course in science
development; (ii) support the production of promotion and dissemination
materials; (iii) provision of a CD reader, computer and abstract disks and
training on its operation; (iv) provision of advice and training in developing
information from the collections of relevance to development.
(f) Project implementation support: This sub-component would include support
to the Project Implementation Units (PIU) at INPA and MPEG for technical
services, including contracting procurement services and an external auditor
and monitoring and evaluation support. The sub-component would be
financed by the counterpart funds.
(g) Policy studies and strategic plans: In addition, the project would finance
with counterpart funds, the following policy studies and plans at MPEG: (1)
preparation of a 5-year strategic plan for the dissemination activities at the
Museum; (ii) preparation of a detailed scientific policy and plan for the
institutions; (iii) preparation of a plan to restructure the zoobotanical park.
MPEG has recently lost a highly qualified staff member with experience in
environmental education and exhibits that was filling the position of Vice-
President tor Scientific Dissemination and who would have coordinated sub-
components ((d,v), (e,i) and (e,iii) (plan for major exhibit hall, dissemination
plan and plan for the zoobotanical park). Since the project is proposing to



63                             Annex 5
prepare manv complex and long-term strategic plans under these three sub-
components, the hiring of highly qualified and experienced staff to coordinate
the three dissemination sub-components (d,v), (e,i) and (e,iii) at MPEG is
critical for the success of the project.
m. PHASE U
'his phase of the project will depend on the availability of funds from the
donors and on the implementation success of Phase I. At this stage, the activities to
be financed have not been determined yet by the Brazilian government and the Bank.



ANNEX 6: KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS FOR MONITORING AND EVAWATION
MATRI  OF OBJECTVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
(a): Institutional strenatbenin at INPA
al.. Plnnng and gtea  bstota support
0wective                                         Actii                                  Expected Out               Epecteddate    Be cost
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   [ oof  output  US$'OO @
Implemnen a tegubr syem of planning,- Bmito     1. Rcntit technical personnel & inten           1. Conkplee roster of rearch.       Month 8           t 15.2
and eaua    (COPL) and strngt   sms budget                                                          prects, convenios, bolsas
pepation procesnd mcing of budget               2. Pmchase equipmant
cpetaditures                                                                                     2. Wotten persormel procedres       Mondt 12
3. Contract orstat                                   a
4. Establish registers of reerch, projects,
convenios, bola; projet pmsention form;
peonnel prcodures manual
S. Training courses                                               .
Objeci                                           Actvit                                 Expcted ouput               Expected date    Ba  Cost
____  ____  ____  ___  ____  ____  ____     _   __                                               __Iof oA                                  tp ut        LS'0 0o
I|mov   coordination of scientific exchanges and  1. Contract consulant                          1. Witten intensl guidelines end     Month S           62.10
tehncal" coopertsion                                                                                 procedura manual
2. Purchase equipment
2. Wdtten action plan to improve    Month 10
3. Hirc and train technical personnel & interns     cooperation with otied research
centers
4. Paticipate in traiing workhops
3. Increased cooperadon agreeim
S. Prepare guideines and proedures
Including some recurrent costs                                                                                                                                      I



MAThIX OF OBJECIMES, ACnIVITIS, EXPECTED OUTPUFr AND TIMEABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
(ak Institutional Strengeeing at INPA (cont.)
aS. Srvthma administrative ceer*mtiondg unil
Objective                                        Atvivdes                                Expeced  -                 Ext pecled date    Bas cost
A En a,t          usJwn
Update admhinrative procedres and insruct staff in    1. Rehabilitate admnaiswion infrastiucure    1. New administatin proedu,         Months 9             144.3
their application and                                                                                 implemented and documened by
2. Acquire furniture and equipment                  written manual of guidelines
Sengthen staff capability to carTy out basic
admnistative functions                            3. Contract consultant to prepate:              2. Trained saff in more efficient    Month 7
- Diagnostic of curent procedures and how they    administrative procedures       Month 12
help or impede tesearch SUppoft
- Development of new procedures and forms
- Technical assistance to staff for implementation
of new system
4. Train staff:
- 3 persons to paeticipate in 2-month COUtrs
offeted in Brasilia and Sao Paulo. Management
of physical facilities, budget and financial
control, human resources management.
- 5 courses to be rresented in Manaus
a.4. Sagths f_d Ig  fou mdation and deveop fmd-uidng capacity, dshrt and longerm.
Objectv                                           Activities                              Expected out               Expected dae       Bs cost
De eopd Ie plement internal capacity to raise     1. Acquite necesy splies                         1. Written strategy aN  wophln.      Months 8          ISS.5*
funds an secure thm on a longterm basis to
support pects and activitis at INPA.             2. Rectuit personnl - contract consultant         2. Written fundraising trip repott5.
3. Acquie refetenoce matials and donor files     3. Up-datetd filn with dono
information.
4. Develop fund raising statey
r. Tain ponas_
6. Travel for ttining am   nd-raising contacts
* IncudIngsm  eurtcosts



MAITRM OF OBJECllVES, ACTlIIES, EXPECTED OUITUIS AND TllMTABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
(b): Reseuith lnfrtrucr and  nmneit Sunert at INPA
b.l. Reswicb   tnf tt
Objec                                             Aciiy                                 Expct  outpu            TEpctd date      m  cost
_________                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fALUtusL
|A. Rvpsntdnn  Andtn,,ahln. new tsbornttrv mace____________
Pepare blueprit and projea for new conatmction   1. Contract engineering firm                      I. Fial proect with blue prints   Month 4            ISO
for new build;Mn
Expand spae for the Ecology Department           I. Renovate the agronomy building in order to move    1. 500 m2 new space for Ecology   Month 12       253
agronomists and thus provide-more space for       Department
ecolodsts in the _colno, bufidine
spatily consodate the Aquatic Biobgy Depanment   I . Consttuct new building                        1. Whole Depatmaent moved to      Month 12           902
new building
2. Integrated Aquatic Biology
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  Studies                            _ _ __ _ _
P|urnsh new Hfldines                             t    Purchase ftrniture for ne  Mavcee rade svailable    1. Functmonn# offices end labs  1gjt2         11t.
R  Expansion sld fihrnishiige colct ons  _ac
Expand space for herbaium collection             1. Install steel cabinet systems for specimens - two  1. Improved and increased     Month 12           60
stories                                           sne;i-en Maceg
Provide additional space for the Zoology coecons    1. Constmct nw  building                       1.  Zoologkal colections          Month 12           450
and guantee tteir safety                                                                               organized and ristered in
2. Move to new building and organiz systemally        new building
colections
2. Demonstatd use of
collections through
_______ ______ ______ _______ ______ ___  __ ______ _______ ______ ______ ______ __  nublcatioublicatiottsesicesd_ ______ ____  _ ______
|~ C  nstnlat4tton of a  fin!e contan  sytm_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _ _
Provide afe wo geavnvonmet for the reseach    1. Itll a fire alarm sytem in the Ubrary,           tI. Iled and funciosig            Month 8             19
actvities carred out in poty reamch depatmts        Herbarium I and H, CPD and the Collections         systm                      J                  _
of NPA.                                              buildine                                      .



MATRI  OF OBJECVES, ACIVIIES, EXPECTD OUTPUS AND TIMTABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
(b). Research Infrastsucture and Etuioment Sutport at INPA (cont.1
b.2. Maintenace and magement of colections
Objective                                      Activity                             Expeded output             Expeced date   Base Cost
Of Llpnt         L at"
Conserve emciently the zoological collections  1. Purchase essential supplies and curate backlog   1. All baddog collections curated  Month 12   40.1
collections
Improve storage conditions for collections    1. Purchase and install air conditioners       1. Air conditioning systems        Month 6          64.8
functioning
Conserve efficiently the botanical collections  I . Purchase essential supplies and mount    I. Large amount of bacidog         Month 12         9.5
backlogs of plant specimens                    botanical collections curated
Ices the ericient use of herbarium space and      1. Purchase standard size steel herbarium cases    I. Baddog of material currently  Month 12   90.0    S
improve the protection of the collections        which will double the storage space available  stored in plastic bags inserted in
in the herbarium                              new cabinets
Up-grade collection management                I . Purchase electronic equipment              1. Improved maintenance and        Month 4           17.6
cataloguing of samples.
!



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVES, EXPECTED OUTPUrS AND TIMIgrABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
Ib). Research 1r_strtu  and EA _umnnt Suguort ot INPA leont.)
b.3. Upgrading libray
Objective                                      Activity                            Expected output           Expected date    Base Cost
Update liba  holdings                         1. Purchase equipment and materials            1. New acquisitions registered   Month 3-24         341
2. Install equipment                           2. Upgraded hardware and
software available to staff for
3. Train staff in the use of database searches    bibliographic searches
3. Improved access to information
_________________________________ .    ______________________ .ac ._______ _____._
b.4. Inmprove eqtupment utilization and acquisition
0o
Objective                                      Activity                            Expected ouput           Expected date    Base Cost
_aLotUL-           U=08L
Incrcase efficieny of equipmen utilization and  1. Inventory evaluation of surplus and needs of  1. Physical description of  Month 6             100
acquisition                                      equipment maintenance                          equipment assets
-                                      .,                                         .~~~~~~~~~~~~



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMEETABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
Ib). Research Infrastiructure and Eauioment SuDort at INPA (cont.)
b.S. Modernize computer and network capabilities at INPA
Objeative                                     Ativity                             Expected output          Expectd date    Base Cost
________                                                                                                                     oLLf eutrit 
Define exact system objectives and requirements.    1. Plan the specific needs of computer support    L. Discuss *politica de  October 1993 -
(how many meters of what cable, etc).        infornatica' for INPA.        Start of
spendins
2. Identify about 20 primary     authority of
nodes.                        Phase 1.
3. Identify what is needed and
why, including vendors and
prices (bids).
Modernize computer and network capabilities at  I. Purchase network structure, cables, computer   1. Installed and system functioning   Month 9  500
INPA                                             systems. software, and licenses.
2. Computer and network system   Month 12
2. Install all equipments: approach the         effectively utilized
installation problem as concurrent activities
then sequentially:
(I) Contract and start diteh digging for cable
etc.
(2) Install network cable to all targeted stes
(3) Install and activate nodes
(4) Link nodes to network
3. Train staff through courses and technical
_________________________                         assisacc.                                _________________
b.6 Ime  trspotao  support
Objective                                     Activity                            Expeced output            Expected date   Base Cost
Provid ground and waer  tapoaion for field    1. Purthase oe boat and three vans            1. Incrs  fied work              Month 6          s0



MATRIX OF OBJECT7VES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
(bh. Research Infrastructureand Eauinmnent Suioort at INPA (coat.)
b.?. Field reseach statio  - floadng rafts
Objecllve                                     Actihity                           Expected output          Expected date   Base Co
_ . . . . . _._. n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f mloutRu   C'
Provide adequate conditions to cary out field  1. Repair two existing floating field stations so  1. Floating field stations in  Months 10  33.5
resamrch dealing with rivers and floodplains    that they can be used for research and       working order
I graduste rield training
b.S. Fed Reseach stations - temrstial fidd stations (ZF.2)
Objective                                     Activity                           Expected output          Expected date   Base Cost
Provme adequae conditions to cary out fild   1. Carny out:                                1. FieJd station in excellent    Months 10         92
reseach in tera fumo habita at the ZF-2 station                                              working order and being used
nm Maws with specia emphasis on                 - Field installations                        by either researchers and/or
silviculture                                                                                  graduate students                                            I
- Field malerials                                                                                        C
- Station maintenane
, Flo;ninmft maintannBca  
b.9. Onomsoletbd  el _           _Annofdmio               INP>A
Objective                                     Acdtites                           Exped otput             Expected date   Baem Coat
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  ,m                                            p t lIlWON
C.nsolida tdo aage          ne              1. Cotruct and furnish new building            I. Functioning maintnanc       Month 6           14S.9
ocordination of INPA                                                                          services ait; quality control
2. Prepwo plan to provide efficient man ance      of mantece service and      Month 6
savices to budings and equipmens              construtIons
3. Excute plan                                                                Months 6-24
4. Acompany spaviio of civil  is drin                                         Moths 6.12
pro-  iplemntatio  thW proc umn ram



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVMES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
(ci. monve Human Resowes Caaadtv at INPA
c.1. Develop and implement a staff perfornce evaluation system
Objective                                     Actinty                             Expected output           Expected date   Base Cost
of al tbtt on
Implement a staff performance evaluation system  1. Complete and test the staff performance  I. Written staff performance    Months 3-12        0
in order to provide incentives based on          cvaluation system                             evaluation procedures.
d emonstratWed per form ance
2. Implement the staff performance evaluation  2. Report on the first year test of
system in the institution so that the resources  the evaluation system indicating
available through the project for training.   any awards and incentives
travel and scientific exchange (3.2) are      provided.
allocated following the criteria established in
the staff performance system.
c2. Scientific excbange and traiing
Objective                                     Activity                            Expected output           Expected date   Base Cost
of outmL       4SL
Improve scientifc knovledge of INPA researchers  I. Selection of scientific staff would be done  1. Written reports describing the  Months 3-12  304
at the Ph.D. levd so that they become competitive  according to the staff performane evaluation  outcome of staff participation
at the national and international levels         system
2. Participation of selected scientific staff in:
- National and International Scientific
Congresses
- Shbot courses at natinal and internatio
institutions
- bntwnsbips at ntion ad ntlnatl_oI
instiution
.                                                                                                                           r    nrI



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTlVITIES, EXPECTED OUTUS AND TIMETABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
(cl, Imurove Human Resoors Caadtv at INPA (cont.)
c3. Graduate program
Objective                                      Activity                             Expected output          Expected date   Base Cost
..of J oLtmU     u4lb
Encourage students to base their theses on data  1. Carry out 50 excursions/120 person       I. Theses containing data collected   Month 12-24   224.5
collected in the fidd rather than solely on      daystSS/day to pay for help in collecting data  in the field
laboratory research
2. Rent - 10 excursions/$lSJOday              2. Courses denonstrating that field   Month 6-12
work has been integrated into
Strengthen the INPA graduate program by       3. Organize and carry out 25 field courses        graduate training programs
providing adequate classroom conditions to work
on research analysis and logistical support to  4. Purchase classroom furniture, field equipment,  3. Purchased and installed  Month 3-5
reach field training sites                        optical equipment, micro-bus and 3 motorized  equipment
canoes



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTVITIME, EXPECTED OUM1 AND TIMETABLE FOR INPA PROJECT
(di. D        _neriation Prouam at INPA
d.1 Dissemination of scientific information
Objective                                     Activity                             Expected output             E3pected date   Base Cost
Publication and distribution of research results  1. Publish 'Acta Amazonica_   1. 4 issues (= I vol.), 3000 copies, a    Months 6-12             46
c. ISO pp. published
2. Publish a series of scientific books and
workshop proceedings                      2. 1 book published (Scientific)     Months 12
L book published (Wotshop         Months 12
ptrocecd4ng                        ______
Organization of a scientific meeting          t. Invitation of selected speakers           1. Execution of the planned congre   Month 1-2         40
on *Fish Genetics and Biochemistry
d.2. Extendeson program
Objective                                      Activity                             Expected output            Expected date   Base Cost
ofIg    J US
Extension publications                        1. Publish a series of semi-scientific books   1. 30,000 folders, 7,000           Months 6-24       30
brochures, 8,000 manuals
2. Toechical publications based on applied
ercof ofINPA
Hih quality tlm/vido on INPA as a research    I. Davelop ilm cript                           1. Writen script                   Months 6-24       2S
institution and its role In conserving and
managing the Amazon rain forest (Portuguese   2. Flm sequences at INPA, rcsearch sites and   2. Filmed sequences
and English vasions)                            interviews
3. Purchased additional sequences
(to be caried out jointy with the ODA technical   3. Purchse additonal flm sequences, especially
assisnce- section e.2)                           natural history temes                       4. Purchasetrecord sou acks
4. Sound tacks                                 S. Master opy of frm
S. Edit fim                                    6. Copies of rtam
6. Video copies of Mm for dison                ___                                .



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR INpA PROJECT
(di. Dissemination Program at INPA (cont)
d3. Support an In-house dissemination unit
Objective                                    Attivity                            Expected output           Expected date   Base Cost
onfJ mLtm    USSO
Support basic equipment for the activities of the    1. Purchase computer, laser printer and  I. Cost efficient production of the  Months 3-6  63.3
Public Relations Office direcdy relating to the  projectors.                                 above-mentioned various
above activiios                                                                              scientific, seini-popular, Nad
popular publications and efficient
realization of the training courses
and scientific ncctings
I



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMErABLE FOR INPA
(e). Potential Technical Assistance from ODA.
e.l. Support for study vWisits by sentior staff and training courses in science devdopment
Objecthe                                Activity                            Expected output            Expeed date    Base Cost
o .Luetl       I4l
Improve scientific research      1. Study visits by selected overseas scientists  I. Improved and new skills added to   Months 6-24  60
the institution
2. Training courses
Potenial ODA interest - $37,300 - Study visit (Year 1)
- $22,400 - Training (Year 2)
e.2. Advice on disseminatisn literature to promulgate.
Objective                               Activity                            Expected output           Expected date    Rase Cost     <
Produce technical publications    1. Prepare text and gaphics                  1. 25,000 folders, 6,000 brochures  Months 8-12       25
2. Contract production
_3. Supp=t fmm ODA gnultnts
Produce film/video for education of   1. Establish video documentation centet  1. Video in Portuguese and English    Months 18-24    74
divase audiences
2. Acquire stock tiotage
3. Contract pMductin _
Provide assistance with basic desk  1. Purchase equipment and soflware         1. Equipped publishing unit       A 'Aths 5-12        51
top publishing equipment
2. Train INPA staff in use of desk top pubtishing   2. Trained staff in desk top
equipment                                    publishing techniques
Potntial ODA interest - $51,000 Assistance with desk top publishing equipment (Year 1)
- $99,000 Technical publications and video production (Year 2)



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR INPA
1e). Potential Technical Assistsnce from ODA.
e3. Provwbn of abstract databases and training
Objectlie                                Activity                             Expected output            Expeted date    Base Cost
_ . , ~~of oU U.S00
Inqmp     the equpmcnt needed to  1. Provide CD reader and disks                 1. Improved access to information  Months 2-24          56
provide up-dated informaton to the                                                 bases
scewific ommuniq                 2. Tmining frim ODA consuW___s
Objective                                Activity                           Expected output           Expected date    Base Cost
Develop the capacity to use and   I.    Provide OpI database software for        1 Improved management of       Months 3-12          119
anage0 the collecions effectively.       collections management.                   collections information
2.    Provide trining on use of softwre.      2. Greater acessibility of
samples for hypothesis
Incea rfelevance and               1.    Invite specialists to provide input to INPA    1. Fomulation of a research  Months 12-24
multidisciplinarity of reserch based     staff in Biology, zoology, Sociology and  plan identifyring topics of
on existing collections                  on the selection of mutidisciplinary      de-velopment interest which
resarch theme based on existing           can hew misted with reference
collections                               to the collections
2.    Provide training course in use of       2. High-quaity rceseh results
collections.
Potenl ODA interest          - $60,000- (Yea 1) - Colltions (database)
- $22,500 - (Year 2) - Training (database)
- $36,000 - Consultant team (Year 2)



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVIIES, EXPECTED OtPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR INPA
M. Proiect imlmeutatlon support at INPA
Objective                                   Activity                            Expect   output            Expted date    Base Cost
fof tpn        U U.S9
Guamntee the efftcient and timely        1. Contract consultants in procurement,        1. Minimized implementation      Months 6-18          200
implementation of the project                auditing and monitoring and evaluation to     bottlenecks
support project implementation.
2. High-quality and timely
implemented project
-'
a



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
(a). Institutional Strengthening at MPEG
a.1. Implement a regular system of planning, monitoring and evaluation of programs.
Objective                               Activity                          Exted output    Expected date  Base Cost
_ _ _ __ _ _tnut_  USS'0IIL
Establish coordinating unit      1. Recruit and train staff coordinator       1. Trained staff               1st quarter 94     61
Develop implmentation plan       1. Hue consultant                             1. Written implenentation plan  lst-3rd quarter
94
2. Staff seminars, consultant assistant
Create and implement monitoring  1. Identify program performance indicators and    1. Functioning monitoring  lst-3rd quarter
system                               data necessary to monitor                  program                      94
a.2  Consolidate inter-institutional sentific and technical cooperation.
Objective                               Activity                          Expected output          Expected date    Base Cost     o
of o__utpt     US'
Establsh inter-institutional     1. Recruit coordinator                        1. Action plan for improving  Month 6            20
coordination unit                                                               inter-institutional cooperation
2. Training and consultant assistance
2. Increased national and     Month 6-12
3. Elaboration of operating procedures and work  international cooperation
plan
a3. Develop adequate admiistrative procedures.
Objective                               Activity                          Expected output          Expected date    Base Cost
Develop adequate management       1. Recruit and train coordinator             1. Proposal for new structure  Month 6           61
structurms and prcedures
2. Diagnostic and needs assessment           2. Written administrative     Month 10
procedures
3. Develop proposal for stnctu.re
4. Implement new structure



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED ()UTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
(a). Institutional Strenathenina at MPEG (coat.)
a.4. Consolidate and strengthen a devdopment office and implement a strategy for bog-term financing.
Objective                                Actity                             Expected output           Expected date    Base Cost
of ot           JS'0
Develp fuidraising sategy         I.      Contract consultant to:                1. Database of financial needs  Month 6            60
a. document financial needs & prorities                              Months 64
for funding                          2. Database of potential sources
b. identify potential sources           or donors                    Months 64
c. acquire reference materials and
establish donor archive               3. Filing system with referncne  Month 12
d. trak existing and future donor       materials
contacts of MPEG staff
e. draft fundraising strategy         4. Written fundraising strtegy
Establish donor coacts            1.       Organize 2 trips for fundmaising and  1. Written trip reports        Month 12
investgation of funding mechanisms
(USA and Europe)
Begin planning for long4etm       1.       Contraet consultant to analyze        1. Written operational steps to  Month 12
mechanisms such as endowments             opportunities and recommend              create endowed programs
appropriate steps for establishing trust
fund, endowed programs, etc.
a.5. Strngthe human resoures  anagemet
Objcte                                   Actvt                              Expected output          Expected date    Base Cost
_              _          _f oLraW   t.ss
Dcveop a perfonn*c evaluation     1.       Contmat 2 specialists                 1. Written preliminary evaluation   Months 1-4    90
system for admisa    and          2.       Studies and diagnostics                instruments
technical stff                    3.       Seminar for saff
4.      Develop evaluation insraments         2. Test instruments            Months 4-6
S.      Pilot evaluations
6.      Adjustments to instmment(s)           3. Final saff evaluation        Month 8
7.      Geneal staff evaluation
Develop a program of humIa         1.      Analysis of curent capabilities       1. Proposal for taining needs  Months 3-6         54
resources training                2.       Assessment of needs
3.      Selection of panicipants based on     2. Trained staff
establish  creria (medoned above)
4.      Presentation of fust cycle of courses



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVrrIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
Oil, Basie Infrastuctre and EanUinent Suart a MPEG
b.l. Infrature support
Objective                                 AcWy                                Exped output               Expeted date      Base Cost
QoanUtnt        USS'O
Improve the basic ifrastucure       1.      Up-grade the electric, telephone and   1.      Installed new clectric,  Month 8             305
services at the Resarch Campus              water system at the Rcsearch Campus.           telephone and water
system in the Research
2.      Expand the zoology collections building        Campus.                  Month 10            250
and instaU new insulating roofs with the
required structural adaptations for the  2.   Improved working
Zoology Department (birds/reptiles and        conditions in the
entomology buildings) and Human               collections building
Sciences Building.                            (Zoology and Human
Sciences), improved
storage conditions for the
collections.
b.2. Equip and modernize research and administrative unids of MPEG                                                                                       oo
Objectiv                                  Activity                            Expected output            Expected date    Base Cost
l                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of onttMot  ussnooo
Improve research and administrative  1. Purchase most needed research equipment and    1. Improved working conditions  Month 6          132
functions at MPEG according to        materials
established prioriies.
2. Purchase office equipment and materials



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
(b). BaSi  Infratrcre and Eauimnent Support at MPEG (cont.)
b3. Modermize computer and network capabiiies at MPEG
Objective                                 Adcity                             Expt  output              Expected date    Base Cost
I                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of eXtt    IJSs
Modernizo computer capabilies at    I.      Purchase and setup of equipment       I.      Installed and running    Month 3           460
MPEG and develop a wellsigned                                                             computer equipment
inflmtion system to prnote         2.       Porchase and instal netwok systan                                      Month 6
com_mication between indidua                                                      2.      Networked machines an
and discipnes                                                                             periphals running
primarily in Windows
served by Wmdows
SNT=O2 envnmemt
mprove the effdicacy of staff in    I.      Contract technicins and train staff in  1.    Improved and new skils   Months 8-12        74
sevicing and using computer failities       nstalling and sevicing equipment
2.      Tain staff in general computer sklils
and appl}cations through short courses
b.4. Consolidaon of Infrastructure and equipment maintenance un
Objective                                Activiy                             Expected output           Expected date    Base Cost
-of n  tL        JLRSS'
Consolidate a maintenance unit to  1.       Construct a garage and administration  1.     Built garage and         Month 8            ISO
provide high-quality services for the       building to house a infrastructure and        administration unit
maintenance of buildings and                equipment maintenance shop (required
equipment.                                 in the FFI project)                    2.      Completed plan for
maintenance
2.      Prepare maintenance plan for buildings                                 Months 68          15
and equipment services.               3.      Improved services for
maintenance, staff hired
3.      Execute plan.                                 and working              Months 6-24



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
(c). Seientific and Human Resources Develoovmnt at MPEG
c-1. Develop and impement a stff performance evaluation system
Objective                                   Acgvty                            Expected output          Expeced date   Base Cost
.  _ .~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ of on"                                                           U,s$20D9
Impleament a staff performance eatuation    1.      Complete and test the staff         1.      Wrintten staff         Months 3-12         0
system in order to provide inentives based on       performance evaluation system               performance evaluation
demonstrated performance                                                                        procedures.
2.     Implement the staff performanec
evaluation system in the institution so   2.  Report on the first
that the mesources available through        year test of the
the pmject for training, travel and         evaluation system
scientific exchange (3.2) are allocated    indicating any awards
following the criteria estabished in        and incentives
the staff performance system.               provided.
c.2. Sceotnlc updatig (stff training, scbolarships, partidpation In symposia and seminars)
Objectie                                   Activity                           Expeced output           Expected date    Base Cost
l                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of oUtillt UM'
Impr dov   effiiency of both the staff    1.  Visits by sected overseas scientists  1.      Improved and new        Months 6-12        420
and the instiution.                                                                         skills; written reports
2.      Overseas technical attachments for            on visits.
individual sciewntists and post-doctoral                             Months 3-12
grants                               2.      Improved rteseach
project selection and
3.      Study grants for young scinists               execution.              Months 6-12
3.      Theses and
publcations;
improved skills



MATRIX OF OBJECrTVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUrPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
(c. saetI aod Human Resoues Develoment at MPEG (Ceont)
c3. Improve of scientific oeions management and use
Objective                               Adivity                            Expected output          Expected date    Base Cost
Davevop the capacity to use and   1. Workshop with invked expers.              1. Workshop proceedings         Months 8-24       422.1
nanagc thecofectons effectively.
2. Technical visits.                         2. Written manual outlining
policy for procedure for usw,
management, loans and
maintenance of collections.
Improve the technical skills of the  1. Prepare a set of crteria for selecting curators.   1. Improved management of  Months 6-24
curaton, and the equipment and                                                   collections; written
infrastrueture of the colections.  2. Training of curators.                      contributions to policy manual.
3. Purchase of equipment.                    2. Improved protection of       Month 12
collections
4. Renovation and refurbishment of physical
structures.                                3. Protection of specimens from  Month 12
climate, insects etc.                                        4
c4. Planning of the rearth program for Caxiuana.
Objecie                                 Activlty                           EXpected output          Expeted date    Base Cost
-     ofmntmit    JIl3oL
Develop a master plan for the     1. Baseline and biodiversity inventory; field  1. Written inventory report and  Months 8-12      S0
reserve                            reconnaissanco of area.                       preliminary zonation.
2. Workshop of invited researchers to promote  2. Tvo research progammed     Months 6-9
inter-disciplinary research and use of the   established.
facility.
.   _                               i.~~~~~~~~~~



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
(c). Scuentific and Human Resources Develooment at MPEG (cont.)
c.S. Incorporate research students into the Museum's scientific program.
Objective                                 Activity                            Expected output            Expeted date    Base Cost
Of              US1'fl
Develop improved research          1. Establish adequate equipment base.           1. Three theses and degrees      Months 1-12        45
conditions in order to accommodate                                                   (from ongoing studies)
graduate tudets.



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECr
(di, Dissemination of Research Results at MPEG.
d.l. Upgrade the library Information and facilities (Central de Informacao)
Objective                                Activity                           Expected output           Expected date    Base Cost
o nolintn-     us;slon
Improve the infstructure to       1. Acquisition of books                        1. Library acquisitions registered   Month 3      147.6
provide up-dated information to the
scientific community              2. Purchase of computer hardware and software to  2. Functioning library database  Month 6
manage and access library resourCeS
Improve the use of literature     1. Train staff in the use of databases searches  1. Trained staff             Months 8-12
2. Improved access to
information bases
d Imnprove MPEG publishing unit (Editoracao CieutEica)
Objective                                Activity                       -  Expected output            Expected date    Base Cost
Improve the equipmant basis for   1. Acquire compute hardware and software       1. Improved in-house capacitics    Months 1-3      96.2
producing scientific publications
2. Cary out technical visits to improve skils  2. Trained staff in publication  Months 3-4
techniques
3. Conrct consultant to train and advise staff on
more efficient publication techniques and   3. Continued improvement of the   Months 6-8
methos                                        publication unit strategies
4. Pub;u;-; b1uletin, books                   4. Continued journals           Months 1-l2
pubrications
__ ,. ... ..., ....I



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
(d). Dissemination of Research Results at MPEG (cont.)
d3. Prodoce instruments for information dissemination
Objective                              Activity                           Expect  output             Expected date of   Base Cost
._   _   _   _  _   _   _   _    _ _   _   _   _  _   _   _   _   _  _   _O tu                                           t           S  oo   1
Produce 6 iues of MPEG Bulletin   1. Writing and editing                     1. 6 editions of MPEO Bulin        bimonthly           28
throughout year
2. Design
3. Production
d.4. Preparatin of a mastec plan for rekrbishing MIEG's major exhibts hal
Objective                               Act                                   xpected output            Expeed date    Bs cost
Comptec plan and funding proposal   1. Analysis of spacelfacilitics provided by  1. Plan, projec proposal, and scale    Months 12    37.1
for refuishig of exhibits          infstructure renovation                       model of proposed new exhibit(s)                                0s
2. Prepare draft pln
3. Contrat consultant asistance
4. Prepa  final plan, budget, and model
S. Plan findraising for implnta.tion
;I



MATRIX OF OBJECTItVS, ACTIVTIE:S, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECr
(e). Potential Technikal Assistance from ODA.
e-1. Support for study vissft by senior staff and training courses u sie ce development
Objective                               Activity                             Expected output            Expocted date    Base Cost
0LnntRUL-
Improve scientific rmsearch       I. Study visits by selected overseas scientists  1. Improved and new skills added to    Months 6-24  60
the institution
t                  =     ~~~~~~~2. Trainn course                            _        
Potendal ODA inter     - $37,000 - Study visit (Year 1)
- S22,500 - Training course (Year 2)
e.2. Advce on demlation herature to promulgate.
Objective                               Activty                              Expected output            Expected date    Ba  Cos
Produce informational brochure    I. Prepare text and graphics                  1. 10,000 brochures               Months 8-12         25
(5,000 each of Portuguese/English
2. Contac produotion                           8nd FrecwhSpanish)
3. Support from ODA consultants
Produce video for education of    1. Establish video doumentaton center        I. Video in Portuguese and English    Months 18-24    25
diverse audiences
2. Acquire stock footage
3. Contmact prductioa
Provide consuhancy suppoRt        1. Support ftm ODA conoultants                                                  Month 5-12          15
Potential ODA intercst - $25,000 Production of brochure (Year 1)
- $25,000 Video podution (Year 2)
- $15,000Conuitancy (Year 1)



MATRIX OF OBJECTIM, ACTIWI'IES, EXPECTED OUMTUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
Ied.  onIal Technical Assitne fronm ODA
e.3. Promison of abstract databases and traiing
Objeciv                                 Aceti                                Expected output            Expected date    3mse Cost
Improve tho aqupmt needed to      1. Provid CD Reader and disks                 1. Improved access to information    Months 2-24       5
povide up-dead infornmaion to the                                                  ba
soltlo commuity                   2. Taing from ODA consulat
3. Provide updae of disk
POnal ODA sUpPoat   $29,000 in CD reader and disk (Year 1)
- $18,600 (Year 2)
-S 7,500 ttining (Yar I)
e.4. drovn of advice md trainig   developing huforugton from the cole
Obj3cie                                 Atibt                              Expected output             ed  date    Base Cost         oo
Dcvelop the capacity to use and   1. Orgaize Consulants teams (Biology, Zoology,   1. Writen manual outlning  Months 8-24         128
Mna th   collecons effeaiy.    Sociolog)                                         policy for procedure for use,
managent, oans and
2. Suppo9t womrhop with imited xpegts at       maintenance of collections.
caixuana.
1. PNovide OPI datahas software for collecions    1. Improved manageennt of  Months 6-24
management                                     collections.
2. Provide training on use of sofiwaro.
Poial ODA support - $54,0O0 - Consula team (Year 1)
- $1S,000 - Caixuna Workdwp (Year 1)
- $37,500-Dataos(Year2)  -
- $21,900 - Traiing databas (Year 2)



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
M. PMiect miuDlenentation support at MEG
Objectve                                     Activity                            Expected output           Expected date    Base Cost
Guarantee the efficient and timely       1. Contract consultants in procurement,        1. Mininized implementation      Months 6-18          135
Implaeentation of the pxoject                auditing and monitoring and evaluation to  bottlenecks
support project implemaeation.
2. High-quality and timely
implemanted project
no



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED outputS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJECT
(a). Poliky studies and plans at MPEG.
g.l. Develop a detailed scientific strategy (identifcation of priorities and setting of research themes)
Objective                                   Activity                           Expected output            Expetted date    Base Cost'
_______                                                                               .Lofutnt                               tIOo
Define ines of research                  Diagnose the comnparative strengths and       1. Compete a written document    Month 9              30
weaknesscs of the Museum.                       outlaning research directions
and priorities.
Define interdisciplinary potential.                                           Month 6
2. Dermed interdisciplinary
Estsblish research and dissemination guidelines  potential and establish intei
for programmed and projects.                    institutional links.          Month 6
3. Operational flowca.
Establish structures and procedurs for   1. Work groups, comparative studies of other  1. Operational manual.          Month 12             18
scientiftc management and controt.      institutions, systems analysis.
*  Brazilian countepat funds
g.2. Dscnluation poky
Objective                                 Acliviy                               ExpeCtd output              Exped date    Base Cost
L                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of owntn  _II!"
Prepare a 5-year strategy for the  1. Contract consultancy                         1. Written strategy that includes a  Month 12           32.8
dissemnuation acivities at the     2. Study tours                                    detailed opertional plan
Musurm                             3. Workshop to discuss stategy
* Brazilian counterpart funds



MATRIX OF OBJECTIVE, ACTIVITIES, EXPECTED OUTPUTS AND TIMETABLE FOR THE GOELDI MUSEUM PROJEC
(d). rn, st    a"  un at Mmw. (ce.L)
g.3. Frepae a p-n to upgak   the  _obom      grks (arque, Z)botaic)
O*ed"                                  Adiwt                    I           Octed w oExpecte dae    am  Cost
Prpar a pba to up-VXd dh         1. Up-gade wow drainag, sysem               1. Upgrde drainage systm       Mouth S           64.1
2. UpVgd of gardes N  pla nursed            2. Impeved adkns and          Mondh 8
3. CO tra comaat preplanao lfor
_dabin the padk                          3. Wdrn pan with blue         Month 12
4. Wolp to discusss pla
S. Todeh l Vi
0  B"razian c    _onetpart fir-is
I-'
I



92                                    Annex7
BRAZIL
PILOT PROGRAM TO CONSERVE THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FORESr
SCIENCE CENTERS AND DIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT-PHASE I
Annex 7: REPORTS AND DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
Documents supporting project
1.   MCT; "Programa Para Consolidabo de uma Base TEcnico-Cientifica na
AmazOnia"; February 1991.
2.   MCT; "Projeto de Pesquisas Dirigidas - PPD, Documento Bgsico"; 1994
(Operational Manual).
3.   MCT; "Edital Programa Pesquisa Dirigida." December 1993.
4.   MCT; "Formulario Unico de Apresentagao de Propostas." February 1994.
5.   MCT; "Relatorio de Acompanhamento de Projetos", February 1994.
6.   MCT; "Formulgrio do Parecer Ad Hoc", February 1994.
7. MCT; "Roteiro para AnAlise e Relato das Propostas"; January 1994.
8.   MCT; 'Orientagoes Complementares aos Editais."
9. MCT; "Orientacoes Gerais Para o Julgamento das Propostas de Projetos."
10. National Research Council, U.S. Academy of Sciences; "A Needs Assessment
of Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amaz6nia and Museu Paraense Emilio
Goeldi;" May 8, 1992.
14. MCT, INPA, MPEG; "INPA and MPEG'S Revised Proposal to the Forest for
the Future Initiative (FFI) of the U.S. Government;" May 1993.
15. MPEG; "Plano Diretor (1992-2001);" May 1992.
16.  MCT, INPA; "o INPA no Contexto do Desenvolvimiento da Regilo
AmazOnica;" July 1992.
17. Comissgo de Alto Nivel Constitufda pelo MCT/PR; "O 1?PA como Centro de
Excelencia em Pesquisas na AmazOnia;" January 1993.
18. MPEG; "Projeto Centros de ExcelOncia"; version August 1993 and December
1993.
19. INPA; "Projeto Centros de Excelencia"; version August 1993 and December
1993
20. Fundacao Instituto de Administraoao; "Planejamento Estrategico do INPA -



93                                    Annx 7
Relatorio Final"; January 1994
2i.  Detailed cost-tables for the project.
Documents related to sector
1. CORPAM; "Plano de Ciencia e Tecnologfa para a Amazonia'; 1991.
2. McGrath, David G., Nicleo de Altos Estudos Amaz6nicos, Universidade Federal
do Parg; "Networking of Research NGOs with Science Centers in the Brazilian
Amazon - A Study;" January 16, 1993.
3. Benevolo de Andrade, Luciano; "Estudo Para Reorganizagio dos Institutos de
Pesquisa;" July 1993.
4. Schwartzman vimnon; "Science and Technology Policy in Brazil"; October 1993.



(VENEZUELA   f               (FRE-
I                                                                      B4.1URINAMEZUI  BRAZIL
C OLOM B I A'                  BVist                  /                    PILOT PROGRAM  TO CONSERVE
*'t,RORA\AI K  AMAPAk THE BRAZILIAN RAIN FOREST
SCIENCE CENTERS AND
1% r   \             t      - .....................;  1      5  McaoDIRECTED RESEARCH PROJECT
i t   P '~ A   R  A          5RANHAo  r.SInO'~CEARA /RIO GjDO NORTE
1 A        E_rNABC
'R ^ Bron o   RONDONI  Kr    NTIN                                             s
PERU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GP
j ^ 7 ~~~~~G  R  \          0f9
\   (-?                   t=7 ~~~~~~ ~ ~~Cuiabbm        mS|.        (
a ( ~~B  O L I V I A                               Goi nia  , 
|   \        ~~~~~~^sS ~MATO GROSSO40          ISN   SG ERAI SiT
P A C /F I C;r\                                      b oGnd         c" .          Bel *E        SANEP TOO
9    t   i  )   DO SUL   6t           >            r  M         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A T Z A N r  C
0 C E A N      p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 OfesRuAsdwalg
)                                   ..96ANTf CATA     RIOA             A     d     P     A
'  BRAZIL)       I        A R G E N T IgN A  /               '.loriontis-               0       AoNs,I l_on_
<   wo 'if 0                               yRIO GRANDR DO SULA                       0  Na  Capil
2  AMElCI                                   %'tI*\   PortoAlggegw                        *  suCapita
4.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
ATt qxrlANflc  The (MDId        NJ   }      \     P       KILOMETERS lw iqo 2IQ 30G NDO 5 L
AM6 COfEAN      Irto  Al"t Am' ,iI Ddw1,
<> w %  JVRUGUAY saw B- a,
_,                                                                                           - Uwrs                   sot son
4,~~~~~~~~~l Il                                           2W                     4AWm                   SW9wiar
_________________a m___A__________



