Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
RFT GRANT NUMBER  TF021949
CEC GRANT NUMBER  TF021948
Rain Forest Trust Fund Grant
and CEC Grant Agreement
(Science Centers and Directed Research Project - Phase I)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Rain Forest
Trust Fund and of Grant Funds provided by the 
Commission of European Communities
Dated September 21, 1994
Page  2
RFT GRANT NUMBER  TF021949
CEC GRANT NUMBER  TF021948
RAIN FOREST TRUST FUND AND CEC GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 21, 1994, between FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as trustee of 
grant funds provided by certain members of the Bank and by the Commission of 
the European Communities (the CEC) into the Rain Forest Trust Fund (RFT), and 
of grant funds provided by the CEC (the Bank in such capacities to be referred to 
as the Trustee).
WHEREAS (A) the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) pursuant to Resolution No. 92-2 of March 24, 1992, of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank (the Resolution), established the RFT to assist 
in the financing of a pilot program (the Pilot Program) with the overall objective 
of maximizing the environmental benefits of Brazil’s rain forests in a manner 
consistent with its developmental goals through the implementation of a 
sustainable development approach that will contribute to a continuing reduction 
of the rate of deforestation of such forests;
WHEREAS (B) certain members of the Bank and the CEC (the Donors) 
have agreed to provide resources by way of grants into the RFT and the Donors 
have requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed, to administer such grant 
funds as trustee, for the purposes of, and in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution;
WHEREAS (C) pursuant to a letter agreement dated June 9, 1994 between 
the CEC and the Bank, the CEC has requested the Bank, and the Bank has agreed 
to, administer as trustee grant funds to be made available by the CEC for the 
financing of certain programs and projects supported by the Pilot Program, in 
accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement; 
WHEREAS (D) the Recipient has appointed its Ministry of the 
Environment and Legal Amazon (the MMA) as its agency responsible for the 
coordination of the Pilot Program on its behalf;
WHEREAS (E) the Recipient, through MMA, having satisfied itself as to 
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of the RFT and of the 
CEC in the financing of the Project;
Page  3
WHEREAS (F) the Trustee has determined that the RFT’s financial 
assistance (the RFT Grant) would be in accordance with the provisions of the 
Resolution;
WHEREAS (G) the CEC has agreed to make available to the Recipient a 
grant (the CEC Grant) out of the funds referred to in (C) above to finance the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS (H) the Recipient intends to enter into a grant agreement (the 
U.S. Grant Agreement) with the Bank as trustee (the Trustee) of funds provided 
by the Government of the United States of America for the purposes of further 
financing the Project (the U.S. Grant), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
U.S. Grant Agreement;
WHEREAS (I) the Recipient, with the support of the Trustee, intends to 
obtain from other donors, including the United Kingdom Overseas Development 
Administration (ODA), additional funds to assist in further financing the Project 
on terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into between the 
Recipient and such donors, including ODA;
WHEREAS (J) the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the RFT Grant and the CEC Grant to the Recipient upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
Page  4
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 
and 6.06;
(vii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(viii)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(ix)
Article XI; and
(x)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) thereof and the last use of such 
term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that in 
Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
acting in its own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Loan", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the RFT Grant and the CEC Grant or any of them; 
and
(v)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the RFT Grant Account and the CEC 
Grant Account or any of them, the  accounts opened by the 
Trustee on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amounts of the RFT Grant and of the CEC Grant, 
respectively, are credited.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
Page  5
the preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Banco Central" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Recipient’s 
Central Bank;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means any entity in the Recipient’s public or private 
sector responsible for the carrying out of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
"CNPq" means Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e 
Tecnológico, a public foundation established pursuant to the Recipient's Law 
6,129 of November 6, 1974;
(d)
"EC" means the evaluation commission referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement;
(e)
"ECU" means European Currency Unit, the currency unit of CEC;
(f)
"Financial Agent" means the financial institution referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, appointed by the Recipient to act as its 
financial agent (agente financeiro
) in the implementation of the Project; 
(g)
"IGSM" means the group referred to in Section 3.01 (g) of this 
Agreement;
(h)
"Implementation Agreement" means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(i)
"INPA" means the Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amazônia, 
the MCT's (as hereinafter defined) research institute established pursuant to the 
Recipient's Decree 31,672, of October  29, 1952;
(j)
"INPA Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) (i) of this Agreement;
(k)
"MCT" means the Recipient's Ministry of Science and Technology;
(l)
"MPEG" means the Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi, a research 
institute under CNPq, referred to in the Recipient's Law 6,129 of November 6, 
1974;
(o)
"MPEG Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) (i) of this Agreement;
Page  6
(p)
"Operational Manual" means the manual adopted by MCT (as 
hereinafter defined) pursuant to MCT’s Portaria
119 of July 22, 1994, which 
describes, inter alia, the criteria for selection and procedures for the carrying out 
of Subprojects, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement 
between the MMA (as hereinafter defined), MCT and the Trustee;
(q)
"Performance Targets" means the targets set forth in the letter from 
the Recipient to the Bank dated June 23, 1994, for the Project performance 
indicators therein specified;
(r)
"PIUs" means the project implementation units referred to in 
Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement; and "PIU" means any of them;   
(s)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(t)
"Subgrant" means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Recipient to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the CEC Grant, to finance a 
Subproject;
(u)
"Subgrant Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(v)
"Subproject" means a research project, approved by the EC, to be 
carried out by a Beneficiary, consisting of investments and other activities to be 
financed by a Subgrant in any of the areas referred to in Part A of the Project; and
(x)
"TS" means the technical secretariat within MCT established by the 
Recipient pursuant to the Operational Manual.
ARTICLE II
The RFT Grant and the CEC Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the RFT Grant in 
the amount of eight million five hundred thousand Dollars ($8,500,000) and the 
CEC Grant in the amount of four million eight hundred twenty thousand ECUs 
(ECU 4,820,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the RFT Grant and of the CEC Grant may 
be withdrawn from the RFT Grant Account and from the CEC Grant Account, 
Page  7
respectively, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the RFT Grant or of the CEC Grant, as 
the case may be.
(b)
The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account for the RFT Grant and a special 
deposit account for the CEC Grant, such Special Accounts to be managed by the 
Financial Agent on behalf of the Recipient, in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Trustee on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment 
under this Agreement except to the extent it shall have received funds for the 
purposes of the Project from the Donors and the CEC, respectively, as referred to 
in Clauses (B) and (C) of the Preamble to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The President of the Financial Agent, or the person or 
persons designated by such President, are designated as representatives of the 
Recipient for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a)  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
under the coordination of MMA: (A) carry out Part A of the Project through 
MCT with the assistance of the Financial Agent; and (B) carry out Parts B and D.3 
of the Project through INPA; and (ii) under the coordination of MMA and with 
the assistance of MCT, cause CNPq to carry out Parts C, D.1 and D.2 of the 
Project through MPEG; all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, engineering, managerial, personnel 
management and financial practices and in accordance with the Performance 
Page  8
Targets and with due regard to ecological and environmental factors, and in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
As needed for purposes of the Project, the Recipient shall establish 
within MCT, and thereafter maintain, an evaluation commission composed of 
qualified and experienced scientists (the EC), for purposes of evaluating and 
approving subprojects. 
(c)
The Recipient shall, through MMA and MCT, enter into an 
agreement, satisfactory to the Trustee (the Implementation Agreement), with a 
financial institution acceptable to the Trustee (the Financial Agent), providing for 
the assistance of the Financial Agent in the implementation of the Project on 
behalf of the Recipient, such agreement to include, inter alia, that: (i) the 
Financial Agent shall enter into contractual arrangements with each INPA and 
MPEG, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee (the INPA 
Agreement and the MPEG Agreement, respectively), providing for the 
cooperation between the Financial Agent and INPA in the implementation of 
Part B of the Project and the participation of MPEG in the implementation of Part 
C
of the Project, respectively; (ii) The Financial Agent shall enter into an 
agreement with each Beneficiary for the provision of Subgrants, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Recipient and the Trustee which shall include, inter 
alia, the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in 
the Basic Operational Document (the Subgrant Agreements); (iii) the Financial 
Agent shall provide assistance to the Beneficiaries, INPA and MPEG in the 
procurement of works, goods and consulting services to be financed by the RFT 
Grant or by the CEC Grant; and (iv) for such services, the Financial Agent shall 
be entitled to a fee, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee, in an 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of 2% (two percent) of the amounts paid by 
the Financial Agent for eligible expenditures under Categories 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its 
obligations, through the Financial Agent, under the Subgrant Agreements, the 
MPEG Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Trustee and to accomplish the purposes of the RFT Grant and of the CEC 
Grant, and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Subgrant Agreements or the 
MPEG Agreement, or any provision thereof.
(e) 
The Recipient shall establish or cause to be established, and 
thereafter maintain or cause to be maintained, within INPA and MPEG 
respectively, a project implementation unit with functions, responsibilities, 
Page  9
structure and technical support, all satisfactory to the Trustee, and key staff in 
adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications and experience (the PIUs), 
for purposes of coordinating the carrying out of the Project within INPA and 
MPEG, respectively.  
(f) 
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain the TS, with responsibilities, 
structure and functions, all satisfactory to the Trustee, and with management and 
staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications; and (ii) carry out the 
technical supervision of, and provide technical support to, the Project through 
the TS.
(g) 
The Recipient shall, not later than six months after the Effective 
Date, establish and thereafter maintain an international group for scientific 
monitoring, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Trustee and with 
members with adequate qualifications (the IGSM), for purposes of, inter alia, 
monitoring and evaluating the progress in Project implementation and the 
institutional structure and functions of INPA and MPEG related to the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the RFT Grant and of the CEC Grant shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall, through the TS, furnish to the Trustee:
(a)  
not later than March 31 and September 30 of each year during the 
Project implementation, semi-annual reports on the progress of the Project 
during the previous six months, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request; and
(b) 
not later than one month before the mid-term review referred to in 
Section 3.04 below, a report on the progress of the Project, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, which shall include an 
evaluation by IGSM of the Project implementation and the institutional structure 
and functions of INPA and MPEG related to the Project.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Recipient shall within three months from a date 12 
months after the Effective Date or from when an amount equivalent to 60% of the 
RFT Grant or of the CEC Grant shall have been disbursed by the Trustee, 
whichever comes first, review with the Trustee (mid-term review), with the 
participation of MMA, MCT and the Financial Agent, such review to be based on 
Page  10
the reports referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and to focus, inter alia, 
on the overall progress in the execution of the Project.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall:
(a) maintain in INPA at all times during the Project implementation the 
scientific exchange and technical cooperation unit and the development unit 
referred to in Parts B.1 (b) and (d) of the Project, respectively,  with structure, 
responsibilities and functions, all satisfactory to the Trustee, and management 
and staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications; and
(b) cause CNPq to maintain in MPEG at all times during the Project 
implementation, the scientific exchange and technical cooperation unit and the 
development unit referred to in Parts C.1 (b) and (d) of the Project, respectively, 
with structure, responsibilities and functions, all satisfactory to the Trustee, and 
management and staff in adequate numbers and with adequate qualifications.
Section 3.06. Not later than six months after the Effective Date, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Trustee, and thereafter implement, or cause to be 
implemented, in a manner and under a time-table satisfactory to the Trustee, 
plans for the maintenance of buildings and equipments of each INPA and MPEG, 
respectively, satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 3.07. Not later than nine months after the Effective Date, the 
Recipient shall:
(a) adopt, and thereafter implement, the staff performance evaluation 
system for INPA referred to in Part B.3 (a) of the Project; and
(b) cause CNPq to adopt, and thereafter implement, the staff performance 
evaluation system for MPEG referred to in Part C.3 (a) of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Recipient shall, not later than 30 days after the Effective 
Date and every six months thereafter, until the funds allocated for Category 1 of 
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be fully 
committed, make a public announcement, under terms and in a manner 
satisfactory to the Trustee, asking for proposals of Subprojects.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
Page  11
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section including those for the Special Accounts for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested;
(iii)
furnish to the Trustee monthly certified statements of the 
Special Accounts; and
(iv)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Trustee shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
RFT Grant Account and from the CEC Grant Account were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Trustee has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the RFT Grant Account and from the CEC 
Grant Account were made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Trustee’s representatives and the European 
Community’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
Page  12
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Trustee
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a) 
that the Federative Republic of Brazil or any other authority having 
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the disestablishment of MPEG or for 
the suspension of its operations; 
(b) 
that any of the Beneficiaries shall have failed to perform any of 
their obligations under the respective Subgrant Agreement; 
(c) 
that MPEG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the MPEG Agreement;
(d) 
that the Recipient shall have failed to afford a reasonable 
opportunity for representatives of the Trustee or the European Community to 
visit any part of its territory for purposes related to the Project; and
(e)
that the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the U.S. 
Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the U.S. Grant Agreement.
Notwithstanding the rights contained in Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, it is understood that, if the event specified in paragraph (b) above 
shall have occurred, the Trustee may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the CEC 
Grant Account for expenditures incurred by the Beneficiary in question.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Page  13
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of this Agreement  within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the PIUs have been established;  
(b)
the Implementation Agreement, the INPA Agreement and the 
MPEG Agreement have become effective; and
(c)
that this Agreement shall have been duly registered by Banco 
Central.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the 
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement 
shall have been duly registered by Banco Central. 
Section 6.03. The date December 21, 1994 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the parties to 
this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco "P" - 8o. andar
70048-900 - Brasília - D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  14
MINIFAZ
  611506
Brasilia,
Brazil
For the Trustee:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
    INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
    Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) 
With copies to:
Ministério do Meio Ambiente e da 
 Amazônia Legal
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "B" - 5 andar
70.068-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
061-1584
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orçamento e 
 Coordenacao da Presidência da República
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70.040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
061-1146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
Page  15
respective names, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Edgard Lincoln De Proença Rosa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
the Rain Forest Trust Fund and of the CEC 
  
Grant
By /s/ Gobind Nankani
Director, Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the RFT Grant 
and of the CEC Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the RFT Grant and of the CEC Grant, the allocation of the amounts of 
the RFT Grant and of the CEC Grant to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of
Amount of
 the RFT
 the CEC
% of
  Grant
  Grant
     Expen-
Allocated Allocated
ditures
(Expressed
(Expressed
 to be
Page  16
Category
in Dollars)
in ECUs)
Financed
(1) Subgrants
4,725,000   
100%
(2) Civil Works:
   (i)  For Part B of
1,974,000
100% 
  the Project
  (ii)  For Part C of
  735,000
100%
  the Project
(3) Goods:
    (i)  For Part B of
         1,773,000
100%
   the Project
   (ii)  For Part C of
974,000
100%
   the Project
(4) Consultants’ services
     and Training: 
  (i)  For Part B of
924,000
100%
 the Project
 (ii)  For Part C of
        1,299,000
100%
 the Project
(5) Administrative
          198,000
100%
    Expenses
(6) Financial 
         167,000
95,000
100% of the
    Agent’s Fee
RFT Grant or
100% of the
CEC Grant, as
the case may
be
(7) Unallocated
456,000
_________
         TOTAL           
8,500,000
4,820,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  17
(a)
the term "Financial Agent’s Fee" means the fee for the services 
provided by the Financial Agent to the Recipient under the Implementation 
Agreement; and
(b)
the term "Administrative Expenses" means the incremental costs 
and expenses incurred by the Recipient in the supervision of the Project, 
including, but not limited to, travel, per diem, communication and office 
supplies costs, and costs and expenses related to the IGSM.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
under Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 above, 
unless the EC has been established;
(b)
under a Subproject, unless the corresponding Subgrant Agreement 
has been entered into between the parties thereto;
(c)
under Part D of the Project; and
(d)
made by or for the benefit or for the operation of the PIUs.
4.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the RFT Grant Account and 
from the CEC Grant Account to be made on the basis of statement of 
expenditures under contracts for goods of less than one hundred thousand 
Dollars ($100,000) equivalent (other than the goods referred to in Part B.1 of 
Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement) and works of less than three hundred 
thousand Dollars ($300,000) equivalent, for services of consulting firms not 
exceeding one hundred thousand Dollars ($100,000) equivalent and for services 
of individual consultants not exceeding thirty thousand Dollars ($30,000) 
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, if the Trustee shall 
have determined at any time that any payments from the RFT Grant Account 
and from the CEC Grant Account were used for an expenditure not eligible for 
financing under this Schedule or used in any manner contrary to the provisions 
of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice, and, according 
with the instructions, from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee, for deposit in the 
RFT Grant Account and in the CEC Grant Account, as the case may be, an 
amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof specified by the 
Trustee.
Page  18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote the generation and 
dissemination of scientific knowledge relevant to  conservation and sustainable 
development activities in the Brazilian Amazon region.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A
:
Subprojects
Provision of Subgrants to finance Subprojects in the areas of: (1) 
ecosystems’ structure and function; (2) sustainable natural resources 
management; and (3) socio-economic and cultural systems.
Part B
:
Institutional Strengthening of INPA
1.
Improvement of INPA’s management and administrative  capacity, 
consisting of, inter alia: (a) implementation of a regular system of planning, 
monitoring and evaluation; (b) institutional strengthening of the scientific 
exchange and technical cooperation unit; (c) improvement or adoption of 
administrative policies and procedures, including improvement of those related 
to personnel and financial management, and a training program for support 
staff; and (d) institutional strengthening of the development unit.
2.
Rehabilitation and expansion of INPA’s research infrastructure, consisting 
of: (a) expansion and furnishing of a laboratory for the INPA’s Aquatic and 
Ecology Department; (b) expansion and furnishing of space for zoological and 
botanical collections and improvement of the collections management; (c) 
installation of fire control systems in the library, herbarium and zoological 
collection building; (d) modernization and re-equipping of the library; (e) 
modernization of computer and network capabilities for researchers; (f) 
acquisition of boats and vehicles for field research; (g) rehabilitation of two 
floating and one terrestrial field stations equipment; (h) acquisition and 
refurbishing of research equipment; and (i) consolidation of the engineering and 
maintenance units.
3.
Improvement of INPA’s human resources capacity in scientific research 
and education, consisting of: (a) development of a staff performance evaluation 
Page  19
system; (b) development of an exchange program for researchers; and (c) support 
to the INPA graduate program, including provision of equipment for classroom 
and laboratory.
4.
Dissemination of research results, consisting of: (a) publication of 4 issues 
of the scientific journal Acta
Amazônica
and of two scientific books; (b) 
publication of booklets and semi-scientific books on applied technology, research 
and extension services; (c) production of a promotional film on INPA; (d) 
support to the organization of an international congress on Amazon fisheries; 
and (e) support to INPA's publication office.
Part C
:
Institutional Strengthening of MPEG
1.
Improvement of MPEG's management and administrative  capacity, 
consisting of: (a) implementation of a regular system of planning, monitoring 
and evaluation; (b) institutional strengthening of the scientific exchange and 
technical cooperation unit; (c) improvement or adoption of administrative 
policies and procedures, including improvement in those related to personnel 
and financial management, and implementation of a training program for 
support staff; and (d) institutional strengthening of the development unit.
2.
Rehabilitation, improvement and expansion of MPEG's research 
infrastructure, consisting of: (a) improvement of the electric, telephone and water 
services at the MPEG research campus; (b) expansion of the zoology collection 
building and installation of new insulating roofs for the zoology collections and 
anthropological collections buildings; (c) acquisition of research equipment and 
materials; (d) modernization of computer capabilities and development of a 
system to promote individual and institutional communication; and (e) 
consolidation of the engineering and maintenance units.
3.
Improvement of MPEG's human resources capacity in scientific research 
and education, consisting of: (a) development of a staff performance evaluation 
system; (b) development of an international exchange program for staff with 
doctorate level; (c) development of a grant program to young scientists; (d) 
development of a training program for curators; and (e) carrying out of a 
workshop at the Caixuana reserve, in the State of Pará.
4.
Improvement of the dissemination of research results through: (a) 
improvement of the library collections, equipment and management; (ii) support 
to the consolidation of MPEG's publication office; (c) publication of six issues of 
the MPEG environmental bulletin; and (d) preparation of a master plan for 
refurbishing the MPEG's major exhibits' hall.
Page  20
Part D
:
Plans and Other Activities
1.
Preparation at MPEG of the following plans: (a) 5-year strategic plan for 
dissemination activities; (b) scientific policy plan; and (c) plan to restructure the 
zoobotanical park.
2.
Carrying out of the following activities by MPEG: (a) study visits by 
senior staff and training courses in science development; (b) dissemination of 
scientific results; (c) acquisition of compact digital disks hardware and software, 
and training in their operation; and (d) development of information systems for 
the collections.
3.
Carrying out of the following activities by INPA: (a) study visits by senior 
staff and training courses in science development; (b) dissemination of scientific 
results; (c) acquisition of compact digital disks hardware and software, and 
training in their operation; and (d) development of information systems for the 
collections.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1996. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
Local Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, 
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Trustee.
2.  In the procurement of goods and works pursuant to this Part A, the Recipient 
shall use the model bidding documents agreed with the Trustee.
Part B
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
(a) 
Computer hardware shall be procured under contracts awarded 
through limited international bidding, among suppliers eligible under the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines) and that are able to provide technical 
Page  21
assistance  and local maintenance services, in accordance with the procedures set 
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 
and 2.56 thereof).
(b) 
In the procurement of computer hardware in accordance with this 
paragraph 1, the Recipient shall use or cause to be used the relevant standard 
bidding documents issued by the Bank for the use of its Borrowers with such 
modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have 
been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use bidding documents based on 
other international recognized standard forms agreed with the Trustee.
2.
Goods other than computer hardware, except for Part A of the Project, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $800,000 for scientific, transport and office 
equipment and $400,000 for materials and supplies, and goods, including 
computer hardware, for Part A of the Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three suppliers, 
eligible under the Guidelines.
3.
Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or less per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,459,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited from 
at least three contractors eligible under the Guidelines.
Part C
:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A of this Section; and (ii)  each contract to be awarded under 
the provisions of Part B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such 
contracts are to be made out of the Special Accounts, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Trustee prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Accounts 
in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
Page  22
the Special Accounts, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract together with the other information required to 
be furnished to the Trustee pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the 
Trustee as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals are to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditures.
(d)
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part D
:
Special Provisions
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works 
to be procured pursuant to Part A hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, 
whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred 
to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid 
evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified objectively, 
and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to 
bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture (
consórcio
)
of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the 
Bank in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 
15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit 
prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Page  23
1.
In order to assist the Recipient, CNPq and the Beneficiaries in the carrying 
out of the Project, the Recipient shall employ or cause to be employed 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981 (the Consultants Guidelines).
2.
For complex, time based-assignments, the Recipient shall employ or cause 
to be employed such consultants under contracts using the standard form of 
contract for consultant’s services issued by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, 
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Recipient shall use or cause to be used other standard forms agreed with the 
Trustee.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Trustee review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, 
proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for 
the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to 
cost less than $30,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior Trustee 
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single 
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Trustee; (d) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent 
or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the contract value to $30,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
Subgrants shall be provided on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, 
through the Subgrant Agreements, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Recipient and the Trustee, including the rights to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the Subproject with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
managerial, environmental and ecological standards, the provisions of the Basic 
Page  24
Operational Document and the terms and conditions of the proposal approved 
by the Recipient;
(b)
require that:
(i)
the goods, works and consultants’ services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the RFT Grant and of the CEC Grant shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement; and
(ii)
such goods, works and consultants’ services shall be used 
exclusively in the Project;
(c)
require the Beneficiary to maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(d)
inspect, by itself or allow the representatives of the Trustee and/or 
the European Community to inspect, the goods, works, sites, facilities and plants 
included in the Subproject, the operation thereof and any relevant records and 
documents;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Recipient or the Trustee shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits derived 
from the Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Subgrant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform its 
obligations under the Subgrant Agreement.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" for the CEC Grant means Category 
(1), and for the RFT Grant means Categories (2) through (6) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be 
Page  25
financed out of the proceeds of the RFT Grant or of the CEC Grant allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocations" means the amounts of $850,000 
and $540,000, to be withdrawn from the RFT Grant Account and from the CEC 
Grant Account, respectively, and deposited into the relevant Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
Any earnings arisen from available funds in the Special Accounts shall be 
used, unless otherwise agreed with the Trustee, solely for the purpose of 
financing the Project.
4.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations 
and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Recipient, shall 
furnish to the Trustee a request or requests for  deposits which do not exceed the 
respective aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocations. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the RFT Grant Account or from the CEC Grant Account and deposit in the 
respective Special Account such amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the 
relevant Special Account at such intervals as the Trustee 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request,  the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Trustee the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the RFT Grant Account or from the CEC 
Grant Account and deposit into the respective Special 
Account such amounts as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
Page  26
evidence to have been paid out of the relevant Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Trustee from the RFT Grant Account or 
from the CEC Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
5.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Trustee such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
6.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the 
Trustee shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the RFT Grant 
Account or from the CEC Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the RFT Grant or  of the 
CEC Grant Account allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Trustee pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the respective Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the RFT Grant Account or from the CEC Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the RFT Grant and of the 
CEC Grant, respectively, allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the relevant 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
7.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Trustee: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may 
request; or (B) deposit into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall 
Page  27
so request, refund to the Trustee) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Trustee 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee into the Special Accounts 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Trustee, refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the 
Trustee all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the RFT Grant Account and to the CEC 
Grant Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
