Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056782 MAU 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
 
(Community Based Watershed Management Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated August 28, 2006 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056782 MAU 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated August 28, 2006 
(“Grant Agreement”) entered into 
between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVLOPMENT (“World Bank”), acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility, established pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 and 
Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994 of the Executive Directors of the World Bank 
(“GEF”), for grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the 
World Bank as participants of the GEF and the ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
MAURITANIA (the “Recipient”). 
The Recipient and the World Bank hereby agree as follows: 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
1.01. 
The Standard Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Grant 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions and in 
the preamble and the Appendix to this Agreement.  
Article II 
The Project 
2.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  To this end, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of Article II of the 
Standard Conditions, and with the Convention to Combat Desertification signed 
by the Recipient on October 14, 1994 and ratified on August 7, 1996, the 
Convention on Biological Diversity, signed by the Recipient on June 12, 1992 
and ratified on August 16, 1996, and the Convention on Climate Change, signed 
by the Recipient on December 6, 1992 and ratified on January 20, 1994. 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Article III 
The Grant 
3.01. 
The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to six 
million Dollars (USD 6,000,000
)
(“Grant”) to assist in financing the Project. 
3.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Article IV 
Effectiveness 
4.01. 
The Grant Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to 
the World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions 
specified below have been satisfied. 
(a) 
The Recipient has amended the regulation for the establishment of the 
Central Coordination Unit for the CBRD (
Arrêté no. 1221/MDRE 
portant création de l’Unité centrale de coordination du Projet de 
Développement Rural Communautaire, 
dated October 20, 2004), in form 
and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, to revise, 
inter alia
,
its
 
composition and its terms of reference to include the coordination of the 
Project.  
(b) 
The Recipient has amended the regulation for the establishment of the 
Steering Committee for the CBRD (
Arrêté no. 1222/MDRE portant 
création du Comité de Pilotage du Projet de Développement Rural 
Communautaire, 
dated October 20, 2004), in form and substance 
satisfactory to the World Bank, to revise, 
inter alia
,
its
 
composition and 
its mandate to include the responsibility for the Project.  
(c) 
The Recipient has amended the Project Implementation Manual 
(including the Monitoring and Evaluation Manual) initially prepared for 
the CBRD, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, in 
order to cover the implementation of the Project. 
(d) 
The Recipient has opened a Project Account and made an initial deposit 
of an amount equivalent to forty thousand Dollars ($40,000) therein.  
Page  4
-
3
-
(e) 
The Recipient has established a computerized information system for the 
financial management of the Project (including software customization, 
the adaptation of the Manual of Financial and Administrative Procedures, 
and the training), in a manner satisfactory to the World Bank. 
(f) 
The Recipient has recruited an external auditor for the Project, with 
terms of references, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
World Bank. 
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of the 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Article V
 
Representatives; Addresses 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister at the time responsible 
for Economic Affairs. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Minister of Economic Affairs and Development 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development 
 B.P. 
238 
 Nouakchott 
 Islamic 
Republic 
of 
Mauritania 
 Facsimile: 
 
(222) 525 4617 
5.03. 
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 6.02 of the Standard Conditions 
is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
Address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  6
-
5
-
AGREED at Nouakchott, Islamic Republic of Mauritania, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By: 
      
/s/ François Rantrua 
Authorized Representative 
 
The ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA 
 
By: 
 
 
 
 
 
        /s/ Mohamed Ould El Abed 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to lessen the incidence of land degradation at the 
watershed level in targeted areas within the Recipi
ent’s territory, by assisting rural 
communities to generate benefits through community-driven investments addressing land 
degradation and promoting sustainable land management practices. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part A
:
Capacity building for sustainable land management, including through support to: 
(i) 
develop intercommunity master plans for watershed management; 
(ii) 
establish watershed associations in the targeted areas; 
(iii) 
strengthen collaboration with national and local research institutions, 
extension services and community associations to adopt a watershed 
management approach in developing and transferring sustainable land 
management technologies; 
(iv) 
review policies, laws and regulations to provide incentives for rural 
communities to adopt sustainable management of resources at the 
watershed and landscape level; and 
(v) 
explore and identify future sustainable operation and funding options for 
the promotion of land management practices following Project 
completion. 
Part B
:
Provision of incentives for sustainable land management practices, including 
support to the establishment and operation of a local investment fund, to provide 
Matching Grants to watershed associations for the adoption of sustainable natural 
resource management and conservation practices within a watershed area and at the  
inter-village community level. 
Part C
:
Support in Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain the following structures with functions as set forth 
in subparagraphs (a) through (f) and in the Project Implementation Manual, at all 
times during Project implementation. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation of the 
Project a Steering Committee, with composition and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the World Bank.  The Steering Committee shall include 
representatives of: (i) the Recipient’s key ministries involved in the 
Project, (ii) elected local governments; and (iii) civil society, and shall be 
chaired by the designated representative of the Recipient’s Ministry of 
Economic Affairs and Development. The Steering Committee shall be 
responsible, 
inter alia
,
for the overall oversight in the implementation of 
the Project. The World Bank shall be invited to participate to the 
meetings of the Steering Committee as observer, and shall receive a copy 
of the minutes of each meeting of the Steering Committee.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation of the 
Project a Central Coordination Unit under the responsibility of the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Rural Development and Environment, with 
composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank.  The 
Central Coordination Unit shall be responsible, 
inter alia
,
for the 
implementation and coordination of the Project. 
(c) 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain throughout the 
implementation of the Project an advisory Scientific and Technical 
Committee, with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
World Bank to, 
inter alia
,
provide technical expertise to the Central 
Coordination Unit on an as needed basis, ensure the coherence and 
scientific quality of the Project’s activities, participate in the monitoring 
and evaluation of the Project and the dissemination of information. 
(d) 
The Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation of the 
Project Regional Coordination Units, under the authority of the Regional 
Delegation of the Recipient’s Ministry of Rural Development and 
Environment, with composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
World Bank. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(e) 
The Recipient shall establish and maintain throughout the 
implementation of the Project Development Committees (
Comités 
Départementaux de Développement
)
in the 
moughataas
 involved in the 
implementation of the Project, to be responsible for the approval of the 
activities in accordance with paragraph 4 below, with composition and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank. The Development 
Committee shall, 
inter alia
,
include representatives of the Recipient’s 
sectoral ministries, local governments and local non governmental 
organizations. 
(f) 
The Recipient shall establish Watershed Associations (
Associations de 
Bassins Versants
)
in accordance with the laws of the Recipient, with 
composition and terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank. The 
Watershed Associations shall include, 
inter alia
,
representatives of 
Village Community Associations, livestock herders (
transhumants
)
and 
other users of the watershed resources. 
2. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project, or cause the Project to be 
implemented, in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual, and the 
Manual of Administrative and Financial Procedures, and except as the Recipient 
and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend or 
waive any provision thereof, if in the opinion of the World Bank, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
3. 
Safeguards: The Recipient shall implement the Project, or cause the Project to be 
implemented, in accordance with the Recipient’s Environmental and Social 
Management Plan entitled “
Plan de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale
”
and 
dated November 1, 2005, the Recipient’s Pest Management Plan entitled “
Plan 
de Gestion des Pestes et des Pesticides
”
and dated February 16, 2006, and the 
Recipient’s Resettlement Framework entitled “
Cadre de Politique de 
Relocalisation Involontaire
”
and dated February 1, 2006, and except as the 
Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend or waive any provision thereof, if in the opinion of the World Bank, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of 
the Project. 
4. 
The Recipient shall develop a Watershed Management Plan on the basis of local 
master plans developed by each Watershed Association and approved by their 
respective Development Regional Committee.  Each year, each watershed 
association will prepare an annual action plan consistent with the Watershed 
Management Plan, including Subprojects for investments and training in 
sustainable land management, and income generating activities, and a budget for 
their implementation, in accordance with the procedures described in the Project 
Page  10
-
9
-
Implementation Manual and the Administrative, Financial and Accounting 
Procedures Manual. 
5. 
The Recipient shall implement Part B of the Project, 
inter alia
 through the 
provision of Matching Grants to Watershed Associations for the partial financing 
of Subprojects, in accordance with the procedures, guidelines and eligibility 
criteria set out in the Project Implementation Manual. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set 
forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project Report 
shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to 
the World Bank not later than one month after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following, as further described (
inter alia
 with base line 
and target values) and completed in the Project Implementation Manual:   
(i) 
Appropriate implementation of the sustainable land management 
process by the Watershed Associations in Project area; 
(ii) 
Percentage of activities supported by the Project which actually 
generate income for the community; 
(iii) 
Percentage of increase of the biomass in the Project area 
(perennial grasses and shrubs regeneration). 
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare a Project Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 (d) of the Standard Conditions.  
The Recipient’s 
Completion Report shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than  
six months after the Closing Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
Page  11
-
10
-
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the World Bank not later than one month after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
World Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Page  12
-
11
-
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  13
-
12
-
Procurement Method
 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Community Participation 
(d)  Direct Contracting 
(e)  Procurement from United Nations Agencies 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement o
f
Consultants’ Services
1.
 Quality- 
and 
Cost-based 
Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 Other 
Methods 
of 
Procure
ment of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on the Consultant’s Qualifications 
(c)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
(d)  Selection of UN Agencies as Consultants 
(e)  Use of Nongovernmental Organizations  
(f)  Single Source Selection 
D. 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the World Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the World Bank:   
(a) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more 
and procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; each contract for 
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and procured on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding; and each contract for goods or works 
procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; and (b) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, each contract for consultants’ services provided by an 
individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, and each contract 
for consultants’ services procured on the basis of Single Source Selection.  All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.
 
Page  14
-
13
-
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the World Bank 
may specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
 (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed in USD)
Percentage of Expenditures to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works 
     10,000 
100% of Foreign Expenditures and  
100% of Local Expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
 
(2)  Goods  
  360,000 
100% of Foreign Expenditures and  
100% of Local Expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
 
(3) Consultants’ 
 services 
 
 
580,000
100%
of Foreign Expenditures and  
100% of Local Expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
 
(4) Training, Study 
 Tours, 
Workshops 
 
 
550,000
100%
of Foreign Expenditures and  
100% of Local Expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
 
(5)  Subprojects 
3,000,000 
100% of disbursed amount 
(6)  Operating Costs 
  900,000 
100% of Foreign Expenditures and  
100% of Local Expenditures all taxes 
excluded 
(7)  Unallocated 
  600,000
TOTAL AMOUNT 
6,000,000 
 
======= 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is 
September 30, 2011. 
Page  16
-
15
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
2. 
“CBRD” means the Community Based Rural Development Project, a project 
implemented by the Recipient partially financed by the International 
Development Association pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Credit no. 3883-MAU) entered into on April 23, 2004 between the Recipient 
and the International Development Association. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in  
May 2004. 
4. 
“Dollar”, “$” and “USD” each means the lawful currency of the United States of 
America. 
5. 
“Foreign Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient. 
6. 
“Local Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; provided, however, 
that if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency 
for such goods or services shall be deemed to be Foreign Expenditures. 
7. 
“Manual of Administrative and Financial Procedures” means the manual of 
administrative and financial procedures referred in Section 4.01(c), as such 
manual may be amended from time to time in agreement with the Association; 
and such term includes any schedule to the Project Implementation. 
8. 
“Matching Grants” means the Matching Grants funded from the proceeds of the 
Grant and provided in accordance with Section I paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
9. 
“Operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account of 
implementation of the Project, audits, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, administrative support, communication and utility services, travel 
and supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil 
service. 
10. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004. 
Page  17
-
16
-
11. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 20, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
12. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the project implementation manual 
referred to in Section 4.01(c), as such manual may be amended from time to time 
in agreement with the Association; and such term includes any schedule to the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
13. 
“Standard Conditions” means the “Standard Conditions for Grants made by the 
World Bank acting as administrator of Various Funds” dated March 2006. 
14. 
“Subproject” means a set of eligible activities in the areas set out in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, which are included in an annual action plan in accordance with 
Section I, paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
