INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET
APPRAISAL STAGE
I. Basic Information
Date prepared/updated: 02/27/2006                        ReportNo.: AC1931
1. Basic Project Data
Country: Mauritania                   ProjectID: P087670
Project Name: Community-Based Watershade Management
Task Team Leader: Huong-Giang Lucie Tran
GEF Focal Area: L-Land degradation    Global Supplemental ID: P087670
Estimated Appraisal Date: March 3, 2006  Estimated Board Date: June 15, 2006
Managing Unit: AFTS4                  Lending Instrument: Specific Investment
Loan
Sector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (40%); Other social services
(30%); General industry and trade sector (10%); Water supply (10%);Roads and
highways (10%)
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);Land administration and management
(P);Rural non-farm income generation (P);Decentralization (S);Participation and civic
engagement (S)
IBRD Amount (US$m.):       0.00
IDA Amount (US$m.):        0.00
GEF Amount (US$m.):        6.00
PCF Amount (US$m.):        0.00
Other financing amounts by source:
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                     0.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                      0.60
0.60
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment
Simplified Processing                 Simple []        Repeater []
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery)  Yes []  No [X]
2. Project Objectives
The project development objective is to lessen the incidence of land degradation at the
watershed level within the CBRD project area by promoting SLM practices and assisting
rural communities realize benefits through community-driven investments which address
land degradation.
The global development objective is to limit land degradation and to safeguard critical
ecosystem functions through community-driven SLM activities that improve agro-
sylvopastoral management and increase vegetation cover while securing livelihoods and
global environmental benefits (i.e., reduced sedimentation of waterways, improved
interconnectedness and integrity of ecosystems, enhanced carbon storage rates, and
increased opportunities for biodiversity conservation).



The proposed project is consistent with the GEF OP #15 "Sustainable Land
Management" context. The global objective of the CBWM is to introduce sustainable
land management practices at the local and regional (commune) levels, in order to limit
land degradation and desertification and to safeguard critical ecosystem functions. Its
focus is on natural resource management in an area where severe problems of water and
wind erosion exist, including poor arable and livestock-related land management
practices with resulting land degradation
The project is partially-blended with the IDA baseline Community-Based Rural
Development (CBRD) Project, which focuses primarily on village-level investments to
improve the livelihood of rural communities. The CBWM project would broaden the
base and supplement it with natural resources management investments emphasizing
sustainable land management (SLM) at the inter-community level.
3. Project Description
The project contains three components with the following activities:
Component A: Capacity-Building for Sustainable Land Management (IDA Baseline -
US$9.2 million; GEF Increment - US$2.0 million).
The baseline project supports strengthening the capacity of community village
associations and rural municipalities in designing and implementing community
development plans, developing the technical capacity of service providers, and
strengthening the capacity of micro-enterprises that supply goods and maintenance
services to the village associations.
GEF incremental activities will build on the baseline by funding: (a) the development
of master plans for watershed management; (b) the review of policies, laws and
regulations to provide incentives to rural communities to adopt sustainable management
of resources at the watershed/landscape level; (c) the establishment of watershed
associations; (d) sensitization of stakeholders to land degradation issues and sustainable
management of resources; (e) strengthening the capacities of national and local research
institutions, extension services and community associations to adopt a watershed
management approach in developing and transferring SLM technologies; and (f)
exploration of future funding options and sustaining operations (e.g., carbon markets,
bio-carbon funds, environmental tax revenues, etc.) following project closing. The
development of watershed associations will provide a fora for discussion and interaction
between village communities, which combined with the development of priority action
plans, will also provide a mechanism for conflict resolution, e.g., between herders and
farmers.
Component B: Investment Funds - Providing Incentives for Sustainable Land
Management Practices (IDA Baseline - US$30.3 million; GEF Increment - US$3.0
million).



Under this component, the baseline project provides the means for poor rural
communities to implement village community development plans (VCDPs) while giving
them the opportunity to put their strengthened capacities into practice. Two funds are
made available which would bring benefits to the poor and improve their social,
environmental and economic conditions: (a) the Village Investment Fund which provides
ADCs with capital input to execute their development plans, and (b) the Rural Communal
Road Funds to improve access to rural roads within the communes. Contributions,
mostly in-kind, are required from beneficiaries at differing levels depending on the type
of investment. The community development plans are demand-driven and identified by
the communities themselves and attention to gender in the form of activities selected by
women would be encouraged.
The GEF component will provide incremental investment capital through a Local
Investment Fund for village communities in a watershed area to adopt sustainable
resource management and conservation practices at the inter-village community level.
The master plan for watershed development, developed at the national level with the
assistance of technical experts, would determine the types of activities which would be
eligible for funding. The investment proposals made by watershed associations would be
demand-driven and would identify sustainable land/resource management investments
and activities to be funded. These investments must also be in harmony (i.e., no
duplication of effort) with the CBRD's VCDPs. Eligible activities could include:
*    the demonstration and application of new, innovative SLM technologies and
energy efficient technology (e.g., solar cooking stoves, solar electricity, biogas) at the
watershed (regional or inter-village), and lower (village community) levels, establishment
of upstream and river bank protection to minimize erosion and sediment transport in the
watersheds, cattle routes/wells, pasture investments, inter-village forest management
investments);
*    income-generating activities (nurseries, ecotourism, fishing, gum arabic,
medicinal plants); and
*    demonstrations of better management practices or mechanisms to strengthen
traditional grazing management systems and systems to reduce livestock-agriculture
conflicts such as installation of closures and boundaries for the protection of grazing
areas and plantations.
Component C: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (IDA Baseline- US$4.1
million; GEF Increment - US$1.0 million).
This component will support incremental project management and coordination
expenses to the baseline, monitoring and evaluation, and the development and
implementation of a communication strategy related to GEF activities. This component
will be also be implemented by the same implementing agency (Central Coordination
Unit - CCU) as for the baseline project to ensure synergy and consistency between the
objectives of the two projects and for cost efficiency. A lead environmental specialist
within the CCU will be responsible for facilitating, coordinating and monitoring the
project's GEF activities. The component will fund technical assistance associated with



M&E, and the incremental operating costs of additional personnel recruited as part of
regional teams (facilitators and animators) to execute GEF activities or to assist in
managing these activities. Qualified technical assistance (e.g., an international research
and development consulting firm) will be recruited under the component to assist the
CCU, particularly in the development of the watershed management master plan and the
implementation of M&E tools (e.g., development of tools to assess land degradation costs
and SLM benefits).
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard
analysis
The project will be tested initially in two pilot sites, following which successful
approaches will be replicated to a total of five sites by the end of the project
implementation period of five years. The selection criteria for scaling up to other sites
will be specific to watershed management and land degradation problems to better ensure
replicability from one site to the next. A detailed replication strategy would be proposed
at the end of the second year of project implementation.
The pilot sites were selected during the preparatory phase (as part of PDF-B activities)
and include one oasis and one agro-salvo pastoral ecosystem (Darkhed Nouadhibou and
Guidimakha). Within these areas three potential watersheds have been identified based on
the following criteria: (i) type and extent of degradation; (ii) zones of interventions with
the IDA projects; and (iii) current threats to ecosystem health (see attached map in
annex). The methodological approach developed during the preparatory pilot phase will
be applied within the CBRD intervention area during the project implementation period.
It may also be applied outside the CBRD intervention area where necessary and
appropriate.
The CBRD area where this project will be implemented covers about 1,000 village
communities in 80 communes located in 9 regions of Mauritania already covered by the
predecessor project (RNRMP): Hodh El Charghi, Hodh El Gharbi, Assaba, Gorgol,
Guidimakha, Tagant, Adrar, Tiris Zemmour, Inchiri. The proposed project would not
impact on cultural property. Where there is a possibility that project activities would
encroach on these areas, project activities would be diverted to ensure that these
culturally and socially sensitive areas are avoided.
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists
Ms Salamata Bal (AFTS4)
Mr Amadou Konare (AFTS1)



6. Safeguard Policies Triggered                    Yes       No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01)               X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                 X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                          X
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                           X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 X
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10)                               X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)               X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                   X
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP 7.50)              X
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60)                       X
II. Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project.
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts:
Three safeguards policies, namely OP 4.01; OP 4.12 and OP 4.09 are triggered. However
there are no potential long-term, large-scale, significant or irreversible impacts
envisioned following sub-projects implementation. All project impacts are expected to
be site-specific, minimal and manageable to an acceptable level.
An Environmental and Social Assessment, in the form of Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) - highlighting screening procedures, management and
monitoring future sub-projects - of the project has been prepared, approved by ASPEN
and disclosed in-country and at Bank InfoShop prior to appraisal.
Pest Management, may be triggered if the project allows for the creation of water bodies
that would increase the number of pests and, therefore, disease such as malaria or
bilharzias, or if the project funds herbicides for conservation agriculture (CA) practices to
improve agricultural production. A Pest Management Plan (PMP) was prepared,
approved and disclosed for the base IDA project (CBRD) that will apply to the present
GEF supplemental project as well, since the beneficiaries are the same communities. It
has been re-disclosed prior to appraisal, whose provisions will serve as guidance for this
project in addressing pest and pesticides management issues that may arise.
Involuntary Resettlement may be triggered because land management master plans may
suggest involuntary resettlement. Land acquired for public and other project activities
may cause individuals or community groups to lose assets, or access to assets, or
proceeds of economic activities. To mitigate resettlement risks a Resettlement Policy
Framework (RPF) prepared, cleared and disclosed for the base CBRD project has been
adapted and re-disclosed in the context of the CBWMP. The CBWMP will follow
guidelines and provisions of the RPF, should social safeguards concerns become an issue.



2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area:
No negative long-term impacts are foreseen, both from environmental and social
standpoints. In the unlikely situation where communal land/sites will not be available for
developmental activities, private land might be acquired and/or people displaced for
security reasons and other reasons.
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize
adverse impacts.
All efforts will be made to avoid constructing infrastructures on private land that will
constrain people to be displaced or loose totally or in part their source of income.
Communities will be asked to willingly choose and provide the sites without causing
harm to the members of the community.
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
The project has prepared an ESMF, which has been approved by ASPEN and disclosed
in-country and at Bank InfoShop. In addition, the project has re-disclosed the
Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) and the Pest Management Plan (PMP) prepared
under the baseline CBRD project currently being implemented.
All these safeguards instruments make adequate provisions for institutional capacity
strengthening. Further, during implementation, sub-project specific EIAs (either limited
or full) will be conducted, where applicable, and an EMP will be prepared and
implemented. Similarly, from a social safeguard standpoint, a Land Acquisition
Assessment will be conducted on the sites to assess whether land acquisition or
Involuntary displacement are likely to occur and whether a RAP will be needed.
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The project is broad-based and participatory by design. All activities will be decided by
the communities in close collaboration with other key stakeholders, including the local
and regional authorities, relevant government agencies and NGOs where available.
Indeed, village communities would be represented in Watershed Associations which will
comprise the main executing units of the project. Under the GEF, only activities with
benefits to SLM objectives and involving inter-community activities would be funded.
This is designed to avoid overlap with the objectives and activities of the CBRD baseline
project.
Watershed development master plans would be prepared to provide the framework
within which village communities through the Watershed Associations would formulate
their local development plans and investment proposals. Village communities would
prepare their local development plans with the assistance of community support services
(public services, NGOs, and/or private organizations) selected in consultation with
communities. For more complex investments, detailed planning, design, and execution
may be contracted out. The monitoring and evaluation of the local development plans'



outputs and outcomes will be carried out by the communities, who would use the findings
to correct and improve their program.
Other stakeholders would include professional and socio-economic groups inside
villages and communes as well as individuals who have a stake in the inter-community
activities. As beneficiaries, they would be involved in the design and implementation of
the local development plans involving more than one community.
On the supply side, the main stakeholders would be the government services (at field
and central levels), the NGOs and the private sector (consulting firms, enterprises, etc.)
that would provide assistance and support the communities in different sectors. Details of
their specific roles would be firmed up during appraisal.
Safeguard policies addressed by the Borrower, specifically those affecting the populace,
would be disclosed during implementation when the local development plans will be
designed. At the design stage, disclosure of safeguard issues would involve exposing the
need to overcome "social traps" into which poor communities often fall when they focus
attention on short-term gains and overlook long-term ills and externalities. During
implementation, the M&E of the local development plans would include safeguard issues
and would be documented as part of the M&E process. All approved safeguard
documents (ESMF, PMP, RPF) have been disclosed in the country's appropriate media,
InfoShop at the World Bank headquarters.
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
Date of receipt by the Bank                          12/01/2005
Date of "in-country" disclosure                      12/12/2005
Date of submission to InfoShop                       12/01/2005
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
Date of receipt by the Bank                          02/27/2006
Date of "in-country" disclosure                      02/15/2006
Date of submission to InfoShop                       02/27/2006
Pest Management Process:
Date of receipt by the Bank                          02/27/2006
Date of "in-country" disclosure                      02/16/2006
Date of submission to InfoShop                       02/27/2006
* If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental
Assessment/Audit/or EMP.
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please
explain why:



C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to befilled in when the
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?  Yes
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM)  Yes
review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the  Yes
credit/loan?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?        Yes
Is a separate PMP required?                                       No
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or No
SM? Are PMP requirements included in project design? If yes, does the
project team include a Pest Management Specialist?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process  Yes
framework (as appropriate) been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector  Yes
Manager review the plan?
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's  Yes
Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a  Yes
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected
groups and local NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities  Yes
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard
policies?
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project  Yes
cost?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the  Yes
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the  Yes
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal
documents?



D. Approvals
Signed and submitted by:                        Name                        Date
Task Team Leader:               Ms Huong-Giang Lucie Tran                 02/28/2006
Environmental Specialist:       Mr Amadou Konare                          02/28/2006
Social Development Specialist   Mr. Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour               02/28/2006
Additional Environmental and/or  Ms Salamata Bal                          02/28/2006
Social Development Specialist(s):
Approved by:
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:  Mr. Thomas E. Walton    t4   '9 /,   §, 02/28/2006
Comments:                                                  9
Sector Manager:                 Ms Mary A. Barton-Doc                     02/1/  ;/02 /28/2006
Comments:                                              / X



