Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 9615
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1407-VA)
MAY 30, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Eauivalents
Name of Currency: Vatu (Vt)
At appraisal:      March 1983         US$1.00 - Vt 97.8369
At completion:    December 1989       US$1.00 a Vt 119.00
In January 1981, the New Hebrides Franc was renamed the Vatu.   The Vatu was
initially pegged to the French Franc at VT 1.00 - 0.61875FF. In this report a
rate of $1.00 = Vt 119.00 has been used which was the average exchange rate
prevailing at the time of the PCR mission's visit.
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1 - December 31
Weiahts and Measures
1 pound (lb) - 0.45 kg
1 acre (ac) = 0.41 ha
1 mile (mi) = 1.61 km
Abbreviations
ALB   -     Asian Development Bank
AEO   -     Agriculture Extension Office
DALH  -     Department of Agriculture, Livestock and Horticulture
EA    -     Executing Agency
FDC   -     Farm Development Center
IDA   -     International Development Association
MLNR  -     Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
MOAF  -     Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
OED   -     Operations Evaluation Department
PCC   -     Project Coordinating Committee
PCR   -     Project Completion Report
PO    -     Project Office
PWD   -     Public Works Department
SPRO  -     South Pacific Regional Office
TAS   -     Tagabe Agricultural School (later renamed the Tagabe
Agriculture Training Center (TATC)



TK WORLD BANK         FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD lANK                b        m u    s
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office at Direct@o.renutal
May 31, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR? AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Somalia Agricultural
Inputs Program (Credit 1612-SO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Somalia Agricultural Inputs Program (Credit 1612-SO)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL uE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM
(Credit 1612-SO)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface        . .   .  .  .  .  .   * . . . . . .  .  .  *.  . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . .          .  .  . . . ..     .iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . .*.   . .         . . . . .    .* . . . . .*. .*.   1
II. ECONCMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN 1985   . . . . . . . .   2
Role of the Bank  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .    .   3
IV. AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   *..   . .     4
Origin and Objectives   ................                     . .   4
Credit Components   . . . . . . . . . . . .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   5
Conditionalities  . . . . . . .   . * * .   .. . *. .      * . .      6
Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . ....  6
Procurement and Disbursement  . . . . . . . .. .        ..  ...   .  10
C^ofinancing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Organization and Monitoring   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
V. ACHIEVEIMENTS AND LESSONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Achievement of Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Lessons Learned   ...           . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .  12
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . .  15
PART III - Statistical Information  . . .           . . . . . . . ..       .   17
1. Basic Data Sheet
2. Conditions of AIP and Their Compliance
Annex 1:  Comments from Kreditanstalt Fur Wiederaufbau  . . . . . . . .  19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by fecipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM (Credit 1612-SO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Agricultural Inputs Program in Somalia, for which Cr. 1612-SO in the
amount of SDR 10.1 million (US$10 million equivalent) was approved on
June 18. 1985. The credit was closed on October 2, 1987, more than a
year behind schedule. About US$400,000 was canceled. The last
disbursement was on October 2, 1987. The Federal Republic of Germany
also provided a grant of DM 30 million (US$9.5 million equivalent) in
support of the program.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division
of Country Department II, Africa Region (Preface. Evaluation Summary,
Part I and Part III). Due to political turmoil in the country, the Bank
was not able to obtain Part II of the PCR from the Government.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the
President's Report, Credit Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and Borrower and internal Bank
memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM (Credit 1612-SO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Agricultural Inputs Program (AIP) was the Bank's first policy-
based lending to Somalia and was designed to support the Government's
economic reform program in 1985. It was in response to a call by donors
at a special Consultative Group meeting in January 1985 to provide
quick-disbursing aid to support the country's economic reforms and close
the financing gap. It was a vehicle for starting a sectoral policy
dialogue with the Government, and subsequently led to the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Programs I and II. The latter was suspended in March
1991 because of non-payment of IDA obligations and the country's
security situation that hindered program implementation.
Obiectives
2.    The credit as approved by the Board on June 18, 1985 had four
objectives: (a) to maintain and increase production in agriculture,
livestock and fisheries sectors through provision of foreign exchange to
import machinery, spare parts, diesel fuel and other inputs needed for
these sectors; (b) to rationalize the role of the public sector and
stimulate private sector activities in agriculture; (c) to stimulate the
expansion of private traders and retail outlets for agricultural inputs;
and (d) to provide agricultural inputs to support the Government's
economic recovery program in 1985.
Implementation Experience
3.    The credit had no condition for tranche release because it was a
small credit to be disbursed over one year. However, it contained
several special conditions, the main one being the requirement for
Vovernuent to submit an action plan for agricultural sector reforms by
December 31, 1985. The action plan was to be based on the
recommendations of five joint Government/donor agricultural sector task
forces on policy and institutional reforms. The reports took longer
than expected to complete and the target date for developing the action
plan was shifted to 1987 as a condition of second tranche release of the
follow-on Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP I).
4.    The only reform measure carried out during the implementation of
the AIP credit was partial deregulation of trade in veterinary drugs
through the introduction of a system of registration of private traders
licensed to import a list of approved drugs.  To meet the condition
stipulated in the Credit Agreement, the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry
and Range (MLFR) issued a decree on October 14, 1985 in which it
approved a list of non-prescription drugs which could be imported and



- iv -
distributed by a specific number of private importers. Over 20
applications have reportedly been approved by MLFR, and about US$2
million worth of drugs were imported by private traders to benefit the
livestock sector.
5.    The organization and implementation of the commodity import
components were carried out as designed. Due to fluctuation in the
exchange rates, the IDA credit (SDR 10.1 million) and German grant (Dm.
30 million) yielded higher amounts in US dollars than at the time of
appraisal. The increased sums were used to finance commodity imports
for the private and public sector. Total program costs amounted to
US$24.7 million ((US$10.9 million from IDA and US$13.8 million from
FRG), 27% higher than the appraisal estimate of US$19.5 million. The
funds were disbursed over two ycars rather than the expected period of
one year.
Results
6.    Overall, the credit made an itapact on the agricultural sector by
injecting resources for imports of agricultural inputs, and stimulated
some private sector trade in agricultural inputs as evidenced by the
following results:
- AIP succeeded in providing an increased supply of
agricultural inputs both for private and public
sectors.
- AIP stimulated the expansion of private sector trade and
distribution of agricultural inputs. Although participating
private traders were rather small in number (about 50), an
important beginning of private sector trading was made.
- Monitoring and implementation of AIP and sector analysis in
preparation of the action plan provided a vehicle of dialogue
with Somali authorities, and paved the way for further reforms
under ASAP I.
- Production of major crops increased in 1985, 1986 and 1987 as
well as the total value added in agriculture. Some of this
growth is due to the increased supply of inputs.
Lessons Learned
7.    Sectoral policy improvement beyond a point requires adjustment at
the macro-level (exchange rate, public expenditure etc.). Government
made some policy changes in agricultural marketing and pricing, but
during AIP implementation, it consistently opposed the use of the market
exchange rate for Part A imports, and continued to apply the official
exchange rate for diesel fuel. Such an important policy weakness at the
macro-level introduced significant distortion in efficiency of resource
.llocation in agriculture by making imports cheap. Also, if financial
discipline is not established at the macro-level, public enterprises can
take an unduly large share of available resources at the cost of the



-v -
private sector. Financial support from the Government budget to loss-
making public enterprises enabled the latter to use considerable
resources under AIP, which would otherwise be used by private importers.
ASAP I and II tried to incorporate macro-level policy conditions in
support of sectoral adjustment. Finally, Somali recort-keeping and
accounting practices need to be improved to a minimum satisfactory level
for monitoring use of donor resources for adjustment and their impact on
the economy. Technical assistance for improving the Government's
statistical capacity was incorporated in ASAP I.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALIA
AGRICULTURAL _NPUTS PROGRAM (Cr. 1612-SO)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. INTRODUCTION
1.       In response to changing economic conditions in Somalia, the Bank
provided credit for the Agricultural Inputs Program (AIP) in 1985.  This was
the Bank's first policy-based lending to Somalia and was designed to support
the Government's economic reform program to stabilize the economy and
stimulate growth in the agricultural sector.
2.       In order to provide the background to this credit this report
summarizes in Section II the economic situation in Somalia since the late
1970s and the Government's early efforts in response to the situation. The
Government's adjustment program and the Bank's role in support of this
adjustment is presented then in Section III. Implementation of the credit is
examined in Section IV. The final section attempts an evaluation of
Government and Bank performance and points out some lessons learned under AlP.
II. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
3.       Beginnins of the crisis.  Somalia has been experiencing serious
economic and financial crises since the late 1970s, because of a combination
of policy-related and exogenous factors (erosion of incentives under pervasive
controls; mismanagement in an over-extended public sector; the drought of
1974/75 and the border conflict with Ethiopia in 1977/78). The average annual
growth of GDP per capita was virtually nil during the late 1970s. Since 1978,
with steep increases in defense expenditures and bank financing of large
budget deficits, domestic inflation became rampant. The balance of payments
worsened as imports surged while exports stagnated. The current account
deficit rose sharply (from about US$100 million in 1977 to over US$250 million
in 1979) and was no longer sustainable with the earlier levels of grants and
concessional loans. Moreover, capital inflows decreased, and grant aid
dwindled in 1978 and 1979, as the aid from the USSR (which supported Ethiopia)
ceased before other donors stepped up their assistance. The second oil price
hike of 1979/80 compounded Somalia's financing problems. Somalia resorted to
some commercial, non-concessional loans, and short-term balance of payments
support from Arab and other international organizations. As a result the
country's external debt increased from about US$300 million in 1977 to about
US$1200 million in 1983, and debt service obligations increased from US$5
million to US$60 million respectively. Debt service fell into arrears and by
end-1984 amounted to over US$200 million, and debt service obligations
exceeded export earnings.
4.       Early efforts for stabilization and adjustment:  Since the Governxrmnt
came into power in 1969, it followed a centrally planned economy. When the
country became increasingly entrenched in its financial crisis in the late
1970s, the Government became convinced of the need to change its course and
move towards a more market-oriented economy.  Beginning in 1981, the



-2-
Government decided to introduce policy and institutional reforms towards
improving incentives, liberalizing the economic system from excessive
government controls and moving to correct policy-induced distortions that had
led to output stagnation and grossly inefficient resource use in the 1970s.
The reform measures, mainly comprising exchange rate adjustments, fiscal and
monetary restraint, increases in agricultural producer prices and de facto
elimination of Gcvernment monopoly of grain purchases, generated some recovery
in the economy especially in agricultural production aAd exports during 1981-
83 and led to increased external aid. These reforms were supported by IMF
standby arrangements.
5.       In 1983, the Government prepared a medium-term recovery program
comprising a public investment program (PIP) for 1984-86 and a program of
policy reform for achieving price stabilization and rationalization of
incentive structure to induce supply response and growth. The program called
for improvement in macro-economic management through fiscal, monetary, price
and exchange rate policies and in public sector financial discipline and
investment programming. At the first Consultative Group meeting in October
1983, donors welcomed the reform program and pledged support for a resource-
constrained PIP. They welcomed the size and composition of the PIP which put
emphasis on rehabilitation and improved utilization of existing facilities.
The program reflected Government's intent to extend the scope of
liberalization of agricultural pricing and marketing, and to further improve
the incentive framework for encouraging the private sector. However,
following a ban on Somali livestock imports by Saudi Arabia, its major
importer, in 1984, the Government slackened its stabilization efforts,
eventually abandoned policy measures including devaluation and financial
restraint, which precipitated a severe financial crisis in 1984. Inflation
reached a record high of 90 percent, and external debt service arrears
mounted.
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM IN 1985
6.       In an attempt to diffuse the economic crisis, the Government adopted
an adjustment program in 1985 to (i) stabilize the economy by reducing
aggregate demand and the budget and balance of payments deficits, and (ii)
improve resource allocation and economic activity by restructuring prices and
incentives. This program, formulated with the close involvement of Bank and
Fund staff, constituted a bold attempt towards fostering a more market-
oriented economy for financial stabilization, resource use efficiency and
growth. The program was supported by a new IMF Standby Arrangement.
7.       The main elements of the stabilization pr&ram were to increase
revenue by improving collection of existing taxes, especially import tariffs,
limit government expenditures, constrain the size of the public investment
program to available concessionary financing, limit credit expansion to the
public and private sectors and to pursue a flexible exchange rate policy. The
structural adjustment measures aimed at improving resource use and productive
efficiency of the economy through liberalization of trade and prices, and
reforming agricultural marketing, public enterprises and the banking system.



-3-
8.       :n addition to devaluing the Somali Shilling by about 28 percent
effective January 1, 1985, a free foreign exchange market for most non-
government transactions was established. Almost all price controls were
dismartled de lure. Practically all controls with respect to trade and
current payment& abroad were removed. Licensing requirements for most import
and export transactions were abolished. The exceptions were certain
commodities which, for reasons of public policy, were either prohibited or
subject to prior approval. Furthermore, traders were permitted to export and
import some goods previously controlled exclusively by the Government.
Exporters were required to surrender 35 percent of export proceeds at the
official rate and allowed to use the remainder in the free market. This
provided incentives for exports, and access to foreign exchange for the
private sector. In agriculture, liberalization of crop prices and marketing
was largely accomplished with resultant increases in production of maize and
sorghum (main domestic cereals), banana (main export crop) and sugarcane.
9.       Some Remaining Agricultural Sector Issues:  (a) While ADC's
(Government grain procurement and distribution agency) monopoly was broken,
its future role as well as the role and price policy of ENC (National
Commercial Agency responsible for importing grains on concessional terms)
remained to be eavermined. Also the eppropriate mechanism for achieving the
twin objectives of producer incentives and price stabilizatior needed to be
studied and established. (b) Improvement of agricultural input distribution
remained an important issue to be studied and resolved. While private traders
imported some agricultural machinery and spare parts since 1983 under USAID-
funded Commodity Import Program (CIP), there was still no private sector
distribution network for inputs, and the parastatal tractor hiring agency
(ONAT) remained the largest provider of a full range of machinery services at
subsidized prices. Also the small quantities of fertilizers, seeds,
pesticides and veterinary drugs were largely distributed through government
agencies, although a parallel market existed. Due to the uncertainty of
government's intentions, private sector equipment dealerships were slow in
getting established. To encourage private sector investment in distribution
inputs and services, government needed not only to legalize entry but also to
eliminate subsidized pricing by parastatal agencies.
Role of the Bank
10.      Prior to 1985, Bank lending to Somalia consisted entirely of
investment projects. Over 30 percent of total lending was for agriculture, 25
percent for roads and ports, and the rest for education, water supply,
industry and technical assistance. Projects in general, and agricultural
projects in particular experienced problems in implementation, often due to
lack of local currency funds from the budget. Also completed projects
suffered from lack of recurrent funds for operations and iaintenance.  Tne
Bank reached agreement with Government to restructure several projects. It
was increasingly evident to the Bank that economic reforms towards
liberalization of pricing and marketing, and improvement in macroeconomic
management were essential to Somalia's recovery and longer term development as
well as to the effectiveness of external assistance.
11.      The Bank has been consistently and strongly supportive of the
Government's policy orientation to improve efficiency of resource use through



- 4-
greater reliar-e on the market mechanism and the encouragement of the private
sector.  Econ - and sector work undertaken by the Bank showed the need for
economic reform, and provided analytic inputs for a dialogue with the
Government and for the work of the Consultative Group for Somalia, which the
Bank initiated. The Bank cooperated with the Government in the preparation
and review of the periodically updated public investment program, performed
collaborative reviews with government and donors on major issues in
agriculture, carried out sector work, initiated the discussion on public
enterprise refo-m, and provided assistance to improve macroeconomic
management, and devise policies for raising resource use efficiency in both
public and private sectors. The Bank's investment projects tried to emphasize
rehabilitation and utilization of existing capacities and to achieve donor
coordination in this regard. It also mobilized adequate and appropriate
assistance in support of economic reform program for adjustment and growth.
AIP became the Bank's first sector policy operation in Somalia.
12.      Overall, IDA strategy through sector policy operations was to further
liberalization measures in areas still needed to be taken and to provide the
Government with quick-disbursing balance of payments support to accelerate the
implementation of Government policies in this direction. The policy dialogue
started under AIP led to agreement with Government on further policy reforms
which became the basis for ASAP I. In addition to the adjustment programs, IDA
also financed investment projects in livestock, rainfed agriculture,
agricultural extension, port modernization and power rehabilitation in order
to help the economy take advantage of the policy and institutional reforms
implemented by the Government.
IV. AGRICULTUR-AL INPUTS PROGRAM
Origin and Obiectives
13.      The Agricultural Inputs Program was developed in response to the 1984
crisis and to support the government's 1985 adjustment program (noted
earlier). At a special Consultative Group meeting on January 23, 1985,
chaired by the Bank, donors emphasized the need for quizk-disbursing aid to
support Somalia's economic policy reforms and to close the financing gap.
Already the USAID financed Commodity Import Program (CIP) was providing
foreign exchange for commodity importation to assist Somalia's balance of
payments position as well as to generate local currency for budget support. In
February 1985, the Ministry cf Finance requested this credit in support of the
government's liberalization measures and to finance agricultural inputs. The
project was negotiated and presented to the Board within the next four months.
14.      The credit as approved by the Board omt June 18, 1985 had four
objectives:
(i)   to maintain and increase production in agriculture, livestock
and fisheries sectors through provision of foreign exchange to
import machinery, apare parts, diesel fuel and other inputs
needed for these sectors;



(ii) to rationalize the role of the public sector and stimulate
private sector activities in agriculture; and
(iii) to stimulate the expa:usi-i of private traders and retail
outlets for agricultural inputs.
(iv)  to provide agricultural inputs to support the Government's
Economic Recovery Program in 1985.
Credit Components
15.      The total program cost was US$19.5 million and had four components:
Part A     US$12.2 million (IDA US$5.6 million plus the Federal Republic
of Germany (FRG) US$6.6 million) equivalent of commercial
imports of agricultural inputs by private traders or public
sector agencies at the prevailing market exchange rate of the
Somali shilling and under limited international tendering.
Part B     US$2.7 million (funded by FRG) equivalent of imports by
Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries at the
official exchange rate of the Somali shilling, and under FRG
procurement procedures.
Part C     US$4.0 million (IDA funded) equivalent of diesel fuel purchase
by the government for agricultural purposes at the exchange
rate agreed between IMF and Government for petroleum imports,
and under international competitive bidding.
Part D     US$0.6 million (IDA US$0.4 million plus FRG US$0.2 million)
equivalent of technical assistance and operating costs for the
procurement unit for the credit.
16.      Program costs, actual vs. original estimates, are as follows:
Original                    Actual
Category                          IDA   FRG    Total    IDA   FRG  Total
---------US$ million----------
Part A (commercial imports)        5.6   6.6      12.2      6.0  10.6  16.6
Part B (Imports for GOS)            0     2.7      2.7      0     3.0   3.0
Part C (diesel fuel)               4.0   0         4.0      4.4   0     4.4
Part D (technical assistance)      0.4   0.2       0.6      0.5   0.2   0.7
Total                         .0.0   9.5      19.5    10.9  13.8  24.7
Due to fluctuations in exchange rates, the IDA credit (in SDR) and German
grant (in DM) yielded a higher amount in US dollars which were used to
finance more commercial imports. Total program costs were $24.7 million,
27% higher than SAR estimates.



-6-
Conditionalities
17.      There were no conditions of negotiations or effectiveness of this
credit. The credit became effective on July 8, 1985 and had no tranche
release conditionalities. However, the credit agreement contained several
special conditions. One required the Government to submit to IDA by
December 31, 1985 the detailed recommendations of the five joint
Government/donor Agricultural Task Forces established to undertake sector
review on various aspects of agricultural production and marketing, and a
detailed plan of action by Government for the implementation of such
recommendations taking into account IDA's comments. The credit agreement
also stipulatec that no funds would be disbursed from Part A of the credit
for veterinary drugs unless the Government authorized the private sector to
import and sell an approved list of drugs and provided IDA with a list of
commercial importers authorized to do so. By and large, the credit was
provided to facilitate recent liberalization measures and to encourage
further reform.
Implementation
18.      The implementation of the program under the credit may be assessed
in terms of the actual imports under the credit and the progress in regard
to the expected plan of action for reform in the agricultural sector.
Technical assistance provided through the credit to support the costs of
the procurement unit for the administration of imports and part of the
costs of the agricultural task forces was used in an effective and timely
way.
19.      Import of Agricultural Inputs. Opening of letters of credit and
actual commercial imports (Part A) were much slower than anticipated. (At
appraisal, it was estimated that the demand for import of agricultural
inputs was US$30-40 million per year.) There seems to be several probable
reasons: (a) public sector agencies did not have the Somali Shillings to
purchase the foreign exchange; (b) the fledgling private sector required
some time to adjust to the new system; and (c) other donor programs (USAID
and Italian CIP) offered foreign exchange for a wide range of imports at
equal or more favorable terms (in regard to exchange rates, scrutiny of
applications etc.). By June 30, 1986 (the original closing date), over
US$2 million IDA funds for Part A remained uncommitted. However, IDA funds
for Part C (diesel fuel) were disbursed more quickly because it was
disbursed through SOMPET, the National Petroleum Agency which was able to
obtain Shillings from the Central Bank. The closing date was revised and
extended several times, and the credit was fully disbursed and the account
closed on October 2, 1987. Based on the letters of credit approved it
appears that the credit financed categories of imports as stipulated in the
credit agreemert. Somali imports data are poorly recorded and do not
provide any supportive evidence in this regard.
20.      Under Part A of IDA/AIP a total of 56 letters of credit were
opened by 22 commercial importers to import US$6 million equivalent of
goods financed by IDA. One public enterprise (Juba Sugar), and two private
sector companies, each used about US$1 million under several letters of
credit. Over 25 percent of imports under Part A were by three public



-7-
enterprises. The rest was used by private importers. Imports consisted
mainly of tractors and other farm equipment and spare parts (cover 90
percent); and other imports were less than 10 percent (See Table 1).    The
credit stipulated that the imports under Part A would be at the prevailing
market exchange rate of the Somali shilling. It was later agreed that the
"commercial exchange rate" (which gave higher value to the shilling) was
close to the "prevailing market exchange rate" and should, therefore, be
used. However, as implementation proceeded the commercial exchange rate
was not adjusted to follow the market rate as planned and tended to depart
increasingly from the "prevailing market exchange rate". Even after the
implementation of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP), which
used foreign exchange auctions to disburse funds, AIP still used the
commercial exchange rate. However, by that time, 902 of the IDA funds and
more than 70% of the FRG funds had been committed. The difference in the
exchange rates for the two programs did seem to have stimulated the demand
for AIP funds, which otherwise might have taken longer to fully disburse
since it had a much more restrictive list of eligible imports than the
auction.



-8-
Table 1: IDA AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM
DISBURSEMENT AS OF JUNE 30, 1987 PART A: COMMERCIAL IMPORTS
Commodity                         Value in         Z of
Categories                      USS Million       Total
Boat engines/Fishing gear          0              0
Veterinary drugs                   0.4             6.5
Chemicals and packaging
materials                         0.1             1.6
Fertilizer, Seed and Planting
materials                        0.03            0.5
Irrigation equipment               1.2            20.0
Tractors and Spare parts           2.7            45.0
Other Agricultural equipment       1.6           26.6
Total US$                     6.0           100
21.            FRG grants under AIP which were being committed in parallel
(using the same exchange rate) were also fully disbursed. For Part A,
i.e., commercial imports, an equivalent of US$10.6 million were actually
-disbursed. (DM 21 million which at appraisal was estimated as equivalent
of US$6.6 million actually yielded US$10.6 million due to exchange rate
changes since then). The funds were disbursed for 64 letters of credit.
About 50 percent of the funds were used by four public enterprises (Juba
Sugar, ONAT, Fanole Rice, Hargeisa Water Agency) while the rest was used by
about 50 private traders. Categories of imports are shown in Table 2.
About one-third of the funds was used for the import of tractors and spare
parts, while only about US$0.1 million was utilized for boat engines and
fishing gear. Also imports of hand tools, fertilizers, seeds and planting
materials were less than $0.4 million.   Detailed data show that about $1
million was used for the import of tractor tires and batteries, wheel
barrows, buckets and generators which could also be used for non-
agricultural purposes. FRG grants for Part B of AIP, i.e., imports by
agricultural ministries, disbursed over US$ 3 million which were mainly
used by the Ministry of Agriculture, and also by Ministries of Livestock,
and Fisheries, in support of agricultural operations.



-9-
Table 2: FRGIAGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM
COMPONENT "A" - COMMERCIAL IMPORTS
(DISBURSEMENTS AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1987)
Commodity                               Value in            Z of
USS Million       Total
Boat engines, fishing gear                   0.1             1.1
Veterinary drugs                             1.5            14.5
Chemicals & packaging materials              0.9             8.7
Fertilizers, seeds, planting mat.            0.4             3.4
Irrigation equipment                         1.0             9.6
Tractor & tractor spare parts                3.7            34.4
Other agricultural equipment                 1.0             9.4
Diesel fuel for Juba Sugar Proj.             1.0             9.4
Spare parts & equipmt. for J.S.P.            1.0             9.5
Grand Total                        10.6          100.0
22.            Progress in Policy Reform in ARriculture.  A joint
Agricultural Sector Survey prepared by the Bank, other donors and the
Government was supposed to be completed by December 31, 1985. The report
would build on the recommendations of the five Agricultural Sector Task
Forces and identify policy and institutional reforms and possible project
support. However, the report took longer than expected to complete due to
the illness of the lead staff, and the target date for developing a plan of
action for further reform measures was shifted to 1987 as a condition of
second tranche release of the ASAP I Credit.
23.            The only reform measure carried out during the
implementation of the AIP credit was partial deregulation of trade in
veterinary drugs through the introduction of a system of registration of
private traders licensed to import a list of approved drugs. To meet the
condition stipulated in the credit agreement, the Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range (HLFR) issued a decree on October 14, 1985 in which it
approved a list of non-prescription drugs which c,uld be imported and
distributed by a specific number of private importers. Over 20
applications were reportedly been approved by MLFR, and about US$2 million
worth of drugs were imported by private traders to benefit the livestock
sector.
24.            Finally, the credit agreement stipulated that the Borrower
should allocate diesel fuel to each region in accordance with estimated
requirements of users in the region and sell diesel fuel to recover costs
fully. However, this was difficult to monitor as the Government did not
submit any distribution plan on time, and its distribution was not backed
up by acknowledgement of receipts of supplies from the regions. In
retrospect, such a stipulation should not have been included since it was
impossible to monitor.



- 10 -
Procurement and Disbursement
25.            The proceeds of the credit were used to finance imports of
eligible agricultural inputs and fuel (about US$10.4 million). As stipulated
in the Credit Agreementp procurement was to follow the Guidelines for
Procurement under IDA credits with certain modifications. Limited
international competitive bidding with at least three quotations was used for
IDA funded imports under Part A and international competitive bidding was used
for Part C (diesel fuel) imports.
26.            Disbursements were to be made for the total foreign exchange
costs of eligible imports against full documentation. To facilitate
disbursement for Part A imports, the Government was required to open a special
account in US dollars with an international commercial bank, which would be
replenished as documents became available which confirmed that the letters of
credit had paid for eligible imports. This procedure was followed in
practice. Also the stipulation of the Credit Agreement regarding the minimum
and maximum amounts (US$100,000 and US$ 1 million) of disbursement for any
importer's letter of credit was complied with. All importers under Part A
were required to deposit in the Commercial and Savings Bank of Somalia, Somali
shillings equivalent to 50 percent of the letter of credit at the time of
opening it, and the remainder when goods arrived.
27.            The Credit Agreement required the Borrower to maintain, and
furnish to IDA records and accounts in respect of the credit. However, more
than a year after the closing of accounts, IDA/AIP accounts remain unfinalized
due to lack of clear and correct statements of accounts from the commercial
bank.
28.            Disbursement of about US$10.4 million IDA credit for Part A and
Part C generated about So.Sh. 719 million, implying an average exchange rate
of So.Sh. 69 - US$1. Clearly dollars were sold cheaper than the free market
price. The price of the dollar in the free market was So.Sh. 102 in July 1985
and rose to So.Sh. 172 in June 1987; the price in the auctions was So.Sh. 133
in June 1987. The average exchange rate of the dollar used for imports under
IDA/AIP was low because of two factors:
(a)   Diesel fuel import of US$4.4 million by the National Petroleum Agency
used an exchange rate of only So.Sh. 42.5 to US$1.00, i.e. the
official exchange rate in December 1985.
(b)   Part A imports cf US$6 million used an average exchange rate of
So.Sh. 85.5 to US$1.00 which was the average commercial rate of the
period July 1985 to December 1986, but much lower than the free
market rate.
Cofinancin 
29.            The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) made a grant in support
of the AIP in the amount of DM 30 million which at appraisal was determined as
equivalent to US$9.5 million, but with changing exchange rates turned out to



- 11 -
be equivalent to nearly US$14 million. FRG grant administration was
completely autonomous and parallel, although contact between PRG and IDA was
close throughout appraisal and implementation of this project.
30.            Part A Imports (equivalent to US$10.6 million) funded by FRG
grants were required to originate from thirteen OECD countries including
Germany. Some inter-category realloce':ions were permitted (e.g. about US$1
million equivalent of diesel fuel imports by Juba Sugar were allowed in Part A
imports). FRG/AIP Completion Report shows that the money was fully disbursed
about US$10.6 million (DH 21.2 million) for Part A, US$4 million (DM 8
million) for government imports and about US$0.2 million for technical
assistance. Grants for Part A imports generated counterpart funds of
So.Sh.922 million, implying an average exchange rate of about So.Sh. 87 to
US$1.00.
31.            AIP also stimulated other donor programs for commodity imports,
such as the Japanese grant of US$2.5 million (Yen 400 million), followed by a
Japanese loan of US$7.5 million (Yen 1.2 billion). These funds were used to
import tractors, farm machinery and spare parts, fertilizer, chemicals,
packing materials and fuel oil.
Organization and Monitoring
32.            The credit was expected to be closed in one year and involved
no second tranche conditionalities. A second tranche was considered at
appraisal, but was believed to be impractical because the credit was small and
was to be disbursed in a year.  The organization and implementation were
carried out as designed.  A procurement unit was established in the Ministry
of Finance (MOP) to publicize the program, receive and screen applications,
maintain accounts and assist importers.  The unit submitted the applications
for screening to an Interministerial Committee headed by MOF and included the
Ministries of National Planning, Commerce and Industries.  Final approval of
the applications was obtained from the Minister of Finance.  IDA supervision
missions and the resident mission acted as catalysts to the monitoring
process; they monitored in particular the use of exchange rate for
disbursement, progress of work of the agricultural task forces, and the extent
of liberalization of trade in veterinary drugs.
V. ACHIEVEMENTS AND LESSONS
Achievement of Objectives:
33.            Since many variables influenced Somalia's agricultural
performance since 1985, it is very difficult to isolate the effect of AIP.
Also, adjustment is a slow process and interventions do not show quick
results. Overall, the credit made an impact on the agricultural sector by
injecting resources for imports of agricultural inputs, and stimulated some
private sector trade in agricultural inputs as evidenced by the following
results:
- Pursuant to its objectives, AIP succeeded in providing an
increased supply of agricultural inputs both for private and



- 12 -
public sectors. Considerable agricultural machinery and spare
parts, and some fertilizers and pesticides were imported during
July 1985 - June 1987. Imports of these agricultural inputs
before the start of the program were very low, although exact
amounts are not known.
- AIP certainly stimulated the expansion of private sector trade and
distribution of agricultural inputs. The new channel of foreign
exchange made available for imports was used by the private sector.
Although participating private trsders were rather small in number
(about 50) and located mostly in the Mogadishu region, an important
beginning of private sector trading was made in an area previously
monopolized by parastatals. However, expansion of dealership and retail
network for agricultural inputs was still facing obstacles in the form
of subsidized parastatal operations (e.g. ONAT selling tractor services
at less than full cost).
- Monitoring and implementation of AIP provided a vehicle of dialogue with
Somali authorities on macroeconomic and structural adjustment issues,
including further liberalization of key sectors of the economy.
34.            In regard to growth of agricultural output, the impact of AIP
seems to have been positive. Productior. of major crops increased in 1985,
1986 and 1987 as well as the total value added in agriculture. A part of this
can be attributed to the increased supply of inputs. The impact on the
livestock sector is less obvious, although the potentially wider availability
of veterinary drugs imported by private traders should be positive.
35.            AIP also fulfilled its objective of starting a process of
agricultural sector analysis to provide the basis for a dialogue on continued
policy reform. As mentioned in pars. 14, AIP was a response to donors' appeal
for balance of payment support to Somalia. It was a stopgap measure which did
not emphasize policy conditions but laid the groundwork for reaching agreement
with Government on future sectoral reforms, which were later supported under
ASAP I.
Lessons Learned
36.            Sectoral policy improvement beyond a point requires adjustment
at the macro-level (exchange rate, public expenditure etc.). Government made
some policy changes in agricultural marketing and pricing, but during AIP
implementation, it consistently opposed the use of the market exchange rate
for Part A imports, and continued to apply the official exchange rate for
diesel fuel. Such an important policy weakness at the macro-level introduced
significant distortion in efficiency of resource allocation in agriculture by
making imports cheap. Also, if financial discipline is not established at the
macro-level, public enterprises can take an unduly large share of available
resources at the cost of the private sector. Financial support from the
Government budget to loss-making public enterprises enabled the latter to use
considerable resources under AIP, which would otherwise be used by private



- 13 -
importers. ASAP I and II I/ tried to incorporate macro-level policy
conditions in support of sectoral adjustment. Finally, Somali record-keeping
and accounting practices need to be improved to a minimum satisfactory level
for monitoring use of donor resources for adjustment and their impact on the
eccnomy. Technical assistance for improving the Government's statistical
capacity was incorporated in ASAP I.
.j/ ASAP II was suspended in March 1991 due to non-payment of IDA
obligations and the country's security situation which hindered program
implementation.



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOMALiA
AGRICULTURAL INPUTS PROGRAM (Cr. 1612-SO)
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
IDA was not able to obtain Part II due to the political turmoil
and security eituation in the country.



- 17 -                                Table 1
SOMALI
AGRICUR'OP.AL INPUTS PROGRAM (Cr. 1612-SO)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
BASIC DATA SHEET
As of (Date):
June 18. 1990
Original    Disbursed   Cancelled   Repaid         Outstanding
Credit 1612-S0    10.0           10.9       0.4 /1             _
(US$ million)
Original                          Actual
Initiating Memorandum                                            1/85
Letter of Development
Policy                     December 31. 1985             March 1987  /2
Negotiations                                               April-Mav 1985
Board Approval                                             6Z18/85
Loan/Credit Agreement   __6/21/85
Effectiveness                                              7/85
Loan/Credit Closing           6/86                         10/2/87
Actual Completion              6/86                        6/87
CUMULATIVE LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENT
FY86    FY87   FY88  FE__        FY
Mi)    Planned (US$ million)                10.0
(ii)   Actual  (US$ million)                 8.5    10.9 /1
'iii)  (ii) as 2 of (i)                      85-
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of    Staff   Date of
Supervision Mission          Month, Year      Weeks      Persons   Weeks   Report
Preparation                    2/85             4           4         16 _     /85
Supervision                    9/85             2           2         4      10/85
Supervision                    2/86             1           1         1     2/25/6
Supervision                    6/86             1           2         2     6/16/86
Supervision                    10186            1           1         1      11/86
Supervision                  11/19-11/26        1           3         3  .     52
FOLLOW-ON ADJUS7MENT OPERATIONS
(COUNTRY:   SOMALIA         )  Adjustment Loan/Credit, Loan/Credit No.  1711
approve on      6/24/86      in the amount of US$30M (26.4M SDR's)
/1 The original credit amount of SDR 10.1 million was equivalent to US$10
million at the time of project negotiation. With the devaluation of the dollar
during the implementation period, the credit amount increased in terms of U.S.
dollars. At the end of the project, there was a balance of US$0.4 million in the
credit.
/2 The deadline for the agricultural sector action plan was postponed to become
a condition of second tranche release under ASAP I.



- 18 -
Table 2
Status of Covenants
Covenant in Credit Agreement                Status of Compliance
Section 3.03 Establish an                   In compliance.
Interministerial Committee to be
responsible for reviewing applications
for imports under the Project.
In compliance.
Section 3.04 Establish within MOF a
procurement unit to process
applications for imports under
project.
Section 3.05 Submit to IDA by               Completion delayed and the target
December 1985: (a)                          date for developing a plan of action
recommendations of the five                 was shifted to 1987 as a condition of
Agriculture Task Forces and (b) a           the follow on Agriculture Sector
detailed plan of action for the             Adjustment Program I.
implementation of such
recommendations.
In compliance.
Section 3.06 Submit to IDA by
December 31 1985 (a) an inventory
and assessment of agriculture
machinery stored in selected
workshops and (b) a plan of action
for the disposal of superfluous,
unrepairabie or inappropriate
machinery.
Section 3.07 Submit to IDA by               In compliance.
September 30 1985 a progress report
on the status of the import program.
In compliance
Section 4.01 (b)(ii) Fumish to IDA          Audits furnished late.
no later than 4 months after the end
of the year, a certified copy of the
auditor's report.
Section 4.01 (b) (iii) Furnish to IDA       Not in compliance.
a monthly statement of transactions
on the Special Account.



Annex L
-19 -                         r@iet0n: (Qp 7431 0
World Bank                                ft#6 1 11¶41          etmmdst
attn.: Mr. J. Shivakumer,                 PNo un1Meltm   1   Ut,itstalt fnaturtrnain 
Divlsion Chief Agriculture                                      Tft*', 4    74  k
Operation Division                                                    O
AfrcaRegion                                                   '096x        f
Washington D.C./USA                            2*4"A
00 e f:on a
molm fhfftflc              @1
~~~~1~~~~~~2 0':nc     "9ue  Ie
L I C/l - Financial Cooperation with SOMALIA
Agricultural Inputs Programme (AIP)
Project Completion Report
Dear Sirss
we would like to thank you for sending a draft of the comple-
tion report for the above project by letter dated Tanuary 30,
1991, We have no special recommendations but we would like to
give you the actual dates about the financial contribution of
the FRG to the AIP%
Distribution (FBUA_1)
Component *A"-Commercial Inputs                       21.20
Component "Do-Imports for GOS                          8.45
Component *DO-Technical Assistance                     L..Q
Total Contribution                               29.95
z /t *d                  t-|~~~~~nezdNinwa3im d3na IIVISNVItBiAO8   8v  4'6X:-



- 20 -
Annex 1
1986                                                13.21
1987                                                13.89
1986                                                 2.60
2.909                                                0.22
1990                                                 L.Q
disbursed                                       29.95
still undisbursed until Match 10, 91:            0.05
We would like to thank you for your fruitful cooperation during
preparation, implementation and completion of the AIP and
remain*
yours faithfully,
KREDITANSTALT FOR WIEDERAUFBAU (Jahn)
A'"4t'# W



