DMPM Vof
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CR )N07- VPI
1ipi N.. P-3630-VA
REPORT AND RECTION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNAIIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECCORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF
SDR 1.9 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AfIM TRAININIG PROJECT
July 14, 1983
Thi diemeu hu a mdud dhlbdm m_d mayW be mu by heelpimis a* In the pufen.m  of
thdr fid  due  lb emut  my me dhuwu be dbudu.ud whhM Wedi gmk s



CUENCT EQUVALENTS
Calendar 1982 May 1983
Currency Unit-      Vatu (Vt)      Vatu (Vt)
$1.00-              Vt 97.8369     Vt 97.8369
Vt 100-             $1.0221        $1.0221
SDB 1.00-           $1.0855        $1.0855
$1.00-              SDR 0.9215    SDR 0.9215
On 1 January 1981 the New Hebrides l'ac was renamed the Vatu. One
Vatn was equal to one New Hebrides Franc.  The Vattu was initially pegged to
the French Franc at Vt 1.00 - 0.61875FE. Since 10 September 1981, the Vatu
has been pegged to the Special Drawing Right (SDR) at ISDB. - Vt 106.20. For
the purpose of calculations in this Report and the Appraisal Report, an
exchange rate of Vt 97.00 - $1.00 has been used. This was the rate prevailing
at the time of project appraisal.
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -   Asian Development Bank
DALF      -   Department of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
EDF       -   European Development Fund
IDA       -   International Development Association
MllR      -   Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
RLC       -   Rural Land Corporation
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFCIUL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Republic of Vanuatu
Amount:                 SDR 1., million (USS2.O million)
Terms:                  Standard
Proiect Description:   The basic obiective of the proposed Pro,ect is to
improve essential smallholder support services by:
(i) adaptive localized research; (ii) extension
services including demonstration; (iii) agricultural
information services; and (iv) veterinary service
together with associated improvement in training and
suDport facilities. The project includes: (i) ex-
verimental plots and demonstration farms at eight
agricultural centers on seven maior islands; (ii) pre-
service and in-service training and overseas study
tours and fellowships for extension services, and
training of young farmers at demonstration farms and
assistance to Tapabe Agricultural School; (iii) intro-
duction of group extension eLforts and cluster
planting, along with support facilities for the
extension service in communication, transportation,
housing, and storage; (iv) assistance in the develop-
ment of motivational campaigns and informatioa
materials by the Information Office, plus associated
equipment and training fellowships; (v) veterinary
laboratory and training for laboratory technicians;
(vi) facilities and services for a Project Office; and
(vii) consultant services for agricultural training,
*                             extension services, and agricultural information
services.
Benefits:               The proposed oroject will result in increased benefits
from investment in research and on-farm production
programs funded by other sources; increased cost
effectiveness and operating efficiency of government
services; greater availability of suitably trained man-
nower; and better prospects for cont'nued beef exports
resulting from proper laboratory screening and certi-
fication. It will contribute indirectly to increased
cash incomes and improved living standards for
smallholders. Other indirect contributions of the
This document has a estricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce  I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
uroiect will be increased participation of the small-
holders in the growth of the cash economy; expansion
and diversification of agricultural production and
exports; increase in foreign exchange earnings; and
increased government revenue as a result of export
taxation.
Risks:                  The risk that the DALF might encounter implementation
difficulties has been addressed by the provision of
consultants and technical assistance for institution
building. Long-term issues about the availability of
substantial funds for the development of mallbolder
agriculture and the responsiveness of local farmers can
only be determined over time, based on the success of
this project.
Proiect Costs:la                        Foreign         Iocal        Total
exchange       cost         cost
(US '000)-
Experiments and demonstration         320            407          727
Training                              420            130          550
Extension service                      590           308          898
Agri.information service               27             43           70
Livestock service                      175            54          229
Project office /b                       8             50           58
Consultant services                   275              1         276
Base Cost                           1.815            993        2,808
Physical contingency                  125             74          199
Price escalation                      460            308          768
Capitalized ADB fee                   100              -          100
Total Prolect Cost                  2,500          1,375        3,875
Financing Plan:
(USS million)      -
IDA                1.6           0.4            2.0
ADB               0.R            0.3            1.1
Government        0.1            0.675          0.775
Total Financing Provided    2.5             1.375         3.875
la   Net of duties and taxes, since none are levied on imports under
development assistance.
/b  Local cost for the management information system advisor is included in
the cost of Proiect Office (see para. 39).



- iii -
Estimated 1)1 shursemei.ts:
TDA FY 1984   19R5   1986   1987   1988
(USS million equivalent)-
Annual     nf3    n.5    n.5    0.4    0.3
Cumulative  n,.    0.8    1.3    1.7    2.0
Rate of Return:             Not quantifiable.
Appraisal Report:           Asian Development Bank, dated July 1983.
Map No.:                    IERD 17341



REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TRE REPUBLIC OF VANUATU FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
1.        T submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
creOit on standard IDA terms to the Republic of Vanuatu for the equivalent of
SPR 1., million (USS2.n million) to help finance an Agricultural Extension and
Tralning Project. The project would be cofinanced with the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) as the lead institution; ADB would provide SDP 1.0 million,
(USST.1 million) from its Special Fund resources , plus a technical assistance
grant of US$265,000.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on Vanuatu (Report No. VAN:  Ec-1) prepared by
the ADR was circulated to the IRRD Board of Directors in March 1982 and a sup-
plementary Country Economic Memorandum prepared by the World Bank Group is
under preparation. Basic Data are presented in Annex 1.
The Setting
-4.       The Republic of Vanuatu, formerly the New Hebrides, has a population
of about 126,n0n. Tt consists of some 80 islands spread over a distance of
about RAi km In the southwest Pacific Ocean, between the Solomon Islands and
Fiif.  The country has a total land area of about 12,000 sq km.
4.        From 1Q06 to November 1979, Vanuatu was an Anglo-French Condominium,
an arranaement involving three separate administrations: British, French and
a loint administration. Since the country became independent in July 1980,
the Governmpnt of Vanuatu has been promoting the unification of the tripartite
nadmInistration it has Inherited. This has to be done irn the context of a
severe shortage of suitably aual ified ni-Vanuatu./l. Although localization is
a long-term oblective, the country will rely heavily on expatriate staff for
some time to come.
5.        The economy of Vanuatu is dualistic, with a large subsistence-
oriented rural sector, and a small urban monetized sector dominated by
/1   People indigenous to Vanuatu.



expatriates. Vanuatu's per capita income is roughly estimated at US$520./2
ni-Vanuatu incomes are a fraction of those of expatriates and are much lower
than the per capita income.  Basically agricultural, the economy depends
mainly on copra exports. Other exports include cocoa, canned beef and
timber. Efforts are being made to promote tourism, and to develop fishing and
small-scale manufacturing industries.
Recent fevelovments
6.        During lqRn the economy showed a downturn associated with political
disturbances at the time of independence and low world commodity prices. The
country's totat export value dropped by 56% from the 1979 level.  Copra
exports declined sharply hy about 33X, and tourism and investmeat also
declined. The economy has since made some recovery. While activities in the
construction, housing, tourism, and offshore banking sectors may have expanded
siznificantly in 10Q1 and 1982, recovery in the agriculture sector has not
been steady.  The level of investment has also been constrained by the uncer-
tainties surrounding land lease arrangements, which now have been resolved.
7.        Exports recovered significantly in 1981 as a result of running down
stockpiles of copra produced during lQn. However, they levelled off in 1982,
as a result of continuing low world Prices, world recession, and adverse
weather conditions.  Exports in 1981 showed an increase of about 16% over the
level of 1qRn, to a total value of USS33 million; but the value dropped by 22%
in 1Q82 to 1YSS26 million.f3
A.        The principal imports are foodstuffs, building materials, fuel oil,
vohiclps, transport equipment and consumer goods. The total value of imports
amounted to USS47 million in 1Q81, with food and drinks accounting for about
one-fifth of the total and constituting the largest category of imports.
TuiDorts have grown steadily over the last few years, as a result of growing
domestic consumption, particularly related to tourism, and more recently the
appreciation of the currency, and amounted to a total of USS54 million in
q9R2. The appreciation of the currency also helped to reduce the inflation
rate, which fell from 27% in lQ81 to 67 in 1982.
a,        The country's balance-of-payments position has been characterized
since 1080 bv a deficit in the trade account and surpluses in the service and
transfer accounts, resulting in current account and overall surpluses. The
trade balance, which improved slightly in 1981 with a deficit of US$15 mil-
lion, deteriorated in 1982 to an estimated deficit of USS28 million.  The
services account, however, is estimated to have increased considerably from
USAll million in 1Q81 to USS23 millicn in 1982, reflecting increased tourist
receipts and ati inflows, particularly technical assistance grants.
/2  TMF estimate for 10R2.
_1  TMF estimate for IQR2.



- 3 -
Outstanding external debt, which was incurred entirely by the Condominium
Government, amounted to about Vt 344 million at the end of 1981, and debt
service pvaments are estimated at the reasonable level of about 7X of exports
In IQ82./4 Official international reserves increased in 1982, partly reflect-
ing the surplus position of the overall balance of payments.
*       1n.        The Government's budgetary operations still depend heavily on
foreign grants. The share of foreign grants in recurrent expenditures has,
however, declined from about 6n0 before independence to about 30X in 1982. In
*       lQRQ, this is expected to decline further to Vt 60n million or about 242.
However, the Government has held the level of total current expenditures to
modest increases in nominal terms, equivalent to substantial decreases in real
terms. Initial reductions were achieved through some consolidation of the
three administrations inherited from the Condominium days. In addition, in
IQR1, two mnnistries were abolished, and there was a freeze on government
amploynment from mid-IQRI/82.  The level of recurrent expenditures declined
from Vt 1,72R million in 1Q79 to Vt 2,171 million in 1981 and rose slightly to
Vt 2,472 million in IQ2.
II.       Government revenue is estimated at Vt 1,732 million in 1982, an
increase of 19X over 1Q81. Domestic revenue is heavily dependent on taxes on
international trade since there is no direct income tax. Import duties have
contributed 75% of/tax revenue, or 65% of total revenue while export taxes
average about 10-12% of total tax revenue. Tax revenue fell sharply in 19P0
and remained low in IQR1, particularly as a result of the slowdown in economic
activities and the adverse effects of political disturbances on tax collec-
tion. Non-tax revenues have, however, shown a slight increase particularly
due to increased collection from company registration and business license
fees, and from port and airport service charges. In 1982 a new 10% tax was
imposed on the turnover of horels and other licensed premises. Despite these
measures, the overall government accounts are likely to be in deficit in 1982,
amounting to about 2% of GDP.I5  Further efforts are needed if the authorities
are to fulfill their obiective of avoiding deficit financing in the face of
declining bu6getarv suPport grants.
12.       Until IQ1i, development expenditures were not treated separately in
the budget, but an attempt has been made to do so in the First National Devel-
oment Plan (1QR2-lQ86).  The Plan estimates total capital expenditures at
Vt i,lnn6 million, of which 71% is earmarked for agriculture, including
fisheries and forestry and other rural infrastructural projects, 11% for
manufacturing, 5Z for mining, and 11% for other sectors. The Government is
almost entirelv dependent on foreign aid for its capital expenditure
prorram. At least Vt 6,17 million or about 562 of total Plan expenditure is
/4   1482 figures provided by TMF.
/5   TMF estimate, op. cit.



-4-
being sought as grAnt aid. Foreign loans and direct private investments will
provide the rest of the requirements.
lt.       The major bilateral donors have traditionally been UK and France,
although Australia's development assistance to Vanuatu has, however, increased
in recent years and is likely to account for one-third of the Development Fund          S
bv the end of the Plan period. New Zealand and Japan are also expected to
finance a sizable portion of Vanuatu's development expenditures. Multilateral
sources of finRnce in addition to IDA include ADB, UNDP, and the European
Develcpment Fund (EDF).
Development Planning and Prospects
14.       The obiectives of Vanuatu's First National Development Plan are: (i)
balanced growth, (ii) increased utilization of natural resources, (iii) reali-
zation of the nation's human resource potential, (iv) increased promotion of
the role of the private sector, Cv) preservation of the cultural and environ-
men,tal heritage, and (vi) economic self-reliance. A 15-year program to
achieve economic self-reliance in three phases is envisaged. The first phase
(coinciding with the First National Development Plan.) covers transition and
reconstruction. The second phase aims at consolidation of the economic ini-
tiatives taken during the-first phase, and the third phase envisages movement
towards economic self-reliance.
lei.      As in other South Pacific island countries, Vanuatu's development
wlll be limited by its remoteness from centers of world trade and industry,
Its dispersed small island composition, fragmented population, and the diffi-
culties of developing economies of scale, given the small domestic market. In
addition, Vanuatu's effective absorptive capacity is limited by the insti-
tutional constraints, the scarcity of labor in the rural economy and the weak
Droiect imnlementation capacity. Lack of public savings and the above
constraints indicate a need for financing of a greater proportion of recurrent
costs of development proiects and external assistance in project planning.
PART TI - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
I6.       Vanuatu joined the Bank Group in 1981.  An economic mission visited
the country in December 14Q2. The proposed proJect, the first Bank Group
operation in Vanuatu, is to he financed by an IDA Development Credit.
17.       Tn order to provide cost effective service to the Pacific Island
borrowers, including Vanuatu, the Bank Group is endeavouring to do more co-
financing operations with the Asian Development Bank taking the lead in the
detalls of project preparation, appraisal and supervision matters. Therefore,
this project has been processed by ADB.
Is.       IDA assistance is designed to be consistent with the Government's
focus on income-generating development activities in the agricultural sector



- 5 -
with emphasis on smallholders.  The pregent project will strengthen agriculture
support servIces to help meet the needs of smallholders.  The next IDA
operation will support agriculture-related development. A joint IDA/ADB
education sector mission is scheduled for FYR4, with a focus on agricultural
eduzation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
lQ.       Agriculture plays a pivotal role in the Vanuatu economy; 80% of the
population is rural, the sector employs about RO0 of the total labor force and
agricultural exports account for 75-802 of total foreign exchange earnings.
GDP estimates suggest that in iQRn agricultural output declined in real terms
because of disruptions in production but recovered in 19R1 and grew by 2% in
real terms as the sector gLadually returned to normal. With the coconut
quality improvement program and in spite of relatively low (though improving)
export prtceps for copra, agricultural output is likely to remain at the same
level as in IQ82.
2-n.      Two major policy issues critical to the medium- and long-term
development of agriculture in Vanuatu are: (a) the organization of land
leases; and (b) the rehabilitation of the plantation sector. With an
abundance of fertile land, favorable climatic and agronomic conditions, the
countrY is in a position to accelerate future agricultural development by
maintaining the existing productive capacity in the sector and by diversifying
the agricultural export base of the economy as indicated in the First Plan
agrlcultural development strategy.
21.       The Organization of Land Leases.  Only 17Z of the total potentially
arable land in Vanuatu is under cultivation for a variety of reasons:
principally rural labor scarcity and the rudimentary agricultural techniques
used by subsistence fa. .ers. While Condominium authorities circumvented this
problem by granting legal land titles to European plantation operators, the
post-independence Government negated such rights by making customary ni-
Vanuatu the exclusive proprietors of the land. Under the 1980 Land Reform
Regulation, former expatriate landowners (alienators) are allowed to hold
leases on terms negotiated with landowners, after registration. Leases are
gcranted by law under the Minister's approval.
22.       The legal and administrative framework for organizing secure land
lpases is now in place and a number of issues have been resolved. First, the
issue of payments for past improvements made by former expatriate landowners
has heen resolved.  The principle of payment for the residual value of past
land imarovements is now guaranteed by the Vanuatu Constitution. Second, the
duration of agricultural landleases, previously limited to a maximum of
In years, can now be extended to 75 years thus allowing operators to undertake
long-term investments, particularly for tree crops.  Third, the Government now
r lies on traditional courts in the claimants' villages to resolve land
disputes between customarv claimants. These traditional courts have in fact



the force ,f law (the IMR2 Island Courts Act). The above measures are likely
to restore the confidence of potential private foreign investors in the
Vanuantu economv, including new lessees and former expatriate landowners.
2%.       Rehabilitation of the Plantation Sector.  The plantation sub-sector
ls vital to the agricultural sector since its output accounts for one-fourth
of total covra exports, one-third of total cocoa exports and all of Vanuatu's
beef exports. However, since the lQ3ns, few new plantings of coconut trees
had been maAe, thus resulting in a stock of older trees (over 50 years of
age),/6 in their declining yield cycle.  This situation was exacerbated by the
loss of immigrant labor in the early 60s at a time when replanting could have
been undertaken and by the departure of expatriate plantation owners and man-
agers in lqRn, leaving most of the plantations unattended. A few of the
abandoned plantations are rapidly reverting to bush in spite of the Rural Land
Corporation's (RLCI efforts to maintain producti sty on neglected plantations
unttl such time as land leases are signed. Without sufficient funds and
exourtise in plantation management, RLC could not carry out its holding
operation effectively. The Government has now turned over the operations of
some of RLC's properties to private individuals.
Rmallholder Support Services and Constraints
24.       The major constraints on more rapid agricultural development are
soeo-political, related to traditional life-styles and social structures of
village communities, customary land ownership, and the desire to preserve ni-
Vanuatu traditional values. Due to the clan structure, the pace of develop-
ment is set more by the community than by the individual.  The Ministry of
Land and Natural Resources (MLNR) is responsible for coordination of agri-
cultural policy issues and delivery of agriculture support services. The
Department of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries (DALF) is one of three
departments in the Ministry. It is comprised of three services: (a) the
Forestry Services; (b) the Liveatock Services; and (c) the Agriculture
Services. The Agriculture Services is comprised of four divisions: training;
extension; quarantines and produce inspection; and agricultural loans. The
technical and administrative constraints on services currently provided to
smallholders are briefly examined below:
(i'    Research.  While station-based research undertaken on oil crops by
Institut de Recherches pour les Ruiles et Oleagineaux, and on cacao
and coffee by Institut de Researches du Cafe, du Cacao et autres
Plante6 Stiiulantes has produced commendable results, these have not
yet been applied in specific locations with varying edaphic
conditions due to the lack of funds. The proposed project is
designed to correct this situation. Introduction of new agri-
cultural practices to smalJholders requires knowledge of their
/6 Nearly all trees on plantations are 50 years old and older, while the
equivalent figure for smallholders is estimated at 40x.



-7-
impact on operations and of their implications in terms of
transport, processing and marketing. There are no facilities at
present to test the suitability of new practices for smallholders.
(Ni)    Demonstration.  DemonstrRtion plots for coffee, coconut and cacao
*                  have been established on smallholder farms.  In many cases the plots
are located away from the main enterprises of the smallholdings.
Establishment of these plots is heavily subsidized and there are
cases where smallholders' involvement is minimal, thus the
demonstration plot was not perceived as an integrated part of small-
holders' operations. No funds have been available to introduce
improved demonstration arrangements.
(iii)    Training.  Most extension service personnel are trained at the
Tagabe Agricultural School, which admits about 30 students every
three years for a three-venr course. The school has an adequate
number of teachers but they lack special experience or training in
teaching agriculture. The present course content and techniques of
instruction are not closely geared to the future work of the
students, and alternative curricula have therefore to be
developed. Many of the extension service personnel who have
completed the Tagabe course need annual in-service refresher
courses. These courses are handled by staff without a professional
background in teaching agriculture.
Tagabe graduatps are expected to find employment not only in DALF,
but in special projects and private sector schemes as well,
includlng village-based enterprises. It is important for the
staggered output from Tagabe to be coordinated with the planning of
special projects which require vocationally trained agricultural
manpower.
(iv)    Extension Service.  The Extension Service for agriculture has 49
professional staff, including two senior officers, one in charge of
the northern part of the country and the other the southern part.
The Government is attempting to provide nationwide extension
service. The present deployment of staff does not reflect
population density in relation to agricultural land. Deployment of
the field force has to take into account transportation and communi-
cation problems, and the ratio of households per field extension
officer (non-specialist) varies from less than a hundred to more
than a thousand.
No consistent records are available on the performance of the
extension service. Evaluation of staff has not been undertaken
since Independence. Most extension officers are young graduates of
Tagabp and, because they work without an experienced officer's
support, they have trouble being accepted by smallholdeers. Contacts
with the supervising officer are limited to about two inspection



tours a year and messages are passed on by public telephone or the
Vanuatu broadcasting station. In some areas, field staff do not
have transport or adequate housin-' and storage.  Under these
circumstances it Is difficult for the extension service to achieve
satisfa.ztory results.
(v)    Tnformation Service.  The Information Office, which was recently
established. has been organizing a weekly half-hour radio program
and has started to prepare reference books for extension staff and
led a maior campaign for copra quality improvement. Currently the
staff consists of only one (expatriate) Information Officer and two
trainees. Without sufficient funds for equipment and materials.
production of powular materials of interest to smallbolders and
extension staff cannot be done satisfactorily. The scope for close
coordination between information and extension activities is
therefore limited.
(vil    Livestock Services. The Livestock Services of DALF is responsible
for livestock extension service, meat inspection, veterinary
clinical services, control and eradication of disease, and animal
quarantine. The veterinary service has six offlcers, as many
laboratory technicians and seven technical assistants for meat
Inspection and laboratory work. The extension section consists of
one extension officer supervising six field extension workers.
Staff strength is considered adequate. Operation of livestock
extension outside the agriculture extension service involves some
duplication ia supervisory cost, and there are difficulties in
coordinating the activities of the services in the field;
reorganization of the arrangement should therefore be considered.
Laboratory facilities are insuffic'ent for meat inspection and
certification, or for assistance in the control of major diseases.
The present arrangement of sending meat samples to New Caledonia for
laboratory screening is unsatisfactory. To safeguard future exports
of beef, which is of good quality and amounts to 700 mt of boneless
meat annuallv, and for a diversification of markets, it is essential
that appropriate laboratory tests and credible certification be
undertaken.
External Assistance for Ap.iculture Development
25.       Slnce Independence in 198O, Vanuatu has received substantial small-
scale assistance to the agriculture sector, particularly in the form of equip-
ment. The ADR and IDA together are expected to be the largest donors to the
sector through the proposed loan, followed by Australia, EDF and the UK. New
Zealand, Canada, France and the South Pacific Commission are also providing
arricultural support.



PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       The project was Proposed by the Government to the ADB in September
IqRl.  Subsequently, the Government requested the ADB for technical assistance
for oroject preparation; this was approved in June 1982. The consultants'
feasibility study was submitted to the Government and ADB in 'December 1982.
AMR appraised the proiect in February-March 1983. IDA credit negotiations with
the Government were 'held from July 1A to 14, lQR3.  An appraisal report
prepared by ADB is being distributed separately.  Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex TIT.
Objectives and Scope
27.       The proposed Project is designed to improve essential smallholder
suoport servLces. The Proiect seeks to (i) maximize the benefits from invest-
ment in research, extension and on-farm production programs funded by other
sources: (ii) increase the cost effectiveness and operating efficiency of such
services; (iii) provide more suitable trained manpower in these services and
on smaiTholdings; and (iv) improve the prospects for the future of Vanuatu's
beef exports.  The Project is thus expected to (i) contribute ultimately to an
increase in the cash income of smallholders; (ii) increase their integration
into the cash economy; (iii) expand and diversify agricultural production and
exports; and fiv) increase foreign exchange earnings as well as government
revenue from export taxation.
Project Description
28.       The proposed Proiect has the following main components:
(a) Experimental Plots and Demonstration Farms (USS727,000)
(i1  establishment and maint :ance of eight experimental plots of
about five ha each to facilitate follow-up of station-based
research findings and localized research at Agricultural
Centers on the islands of Espiritu Santo, Malekula, Tanna,
Aoba, Pentecost, Ambrym and Vanualava. The experimental
activities will include cultivation of coconut, coffee, cacao,
rootcrops, pepper, and other crops as appropriate under local
soil and climatic conditions.
{ii) establishment, maintenance and operation of eight
demonstration farms designed to simulate the smallholder
environment under improved management. The farms of about
eiaht ha each (located at the Agricultural Centers) will
include food gardens, coconut, cacao, coffee, and other cash
crops, primary processing facilities and livestock devel-
ooment. Trainees will be provided with tools and housing
facilities.



- 10 -
(b) Agricultural Training and Education (USS550,000)
fi) assistance for revision of the Tagabe Agricultural School
course, and improvement of facilities, iniclading one dormitory
for 2n students, ote audio-slide projector, and tools and
equipment for a traih'ng and maintenance workshop.
(ii)  seven regional fellowshins and 10 overseas study tours to
upgrade the skills of extension officers.
{iii) cost of improved in-service training courses during project
implementation.
fc)  Extension Service (USSn98flnn)
ti)   assistance for revision of extension approaches and
streamlining of operaticns.
(il)  introduction of group extension efforts and cluster planting
on a pilot basis.
(iii) improvement in transport facilities, to include four four-
wheel-drive vehicles, 24 motorcycles, and 13 dinghies fitted
with outboard motors.
tiv)  allotment of a short-wave radio frequency, for radio-telephone
links, with five control sets and 30 sets at field level.
{v) improvements in housing, office and storage space for field
assistants, comprising 13 staff houses for extension officers,
10 houses for assistants and seven offices and stores.
(d' Agricultural Tnformation Service (USS70,000)
{i) assistance in the design of information programs and
preparation of materials.
(ii)  two overseas fellowships to provide training in mass
communication.
(iii) photographic and audio 2quivment.
(iv)  cost of local preparation of information materials on a
contract basis.
(e) Livestock Services (USS229,000)
(1) establishment, maintenance and operation of a veterinary
laboratory to safeguard the future of Vanuatu's beef exports.



- 11 -
(ii) overseas training of two laboratorv technicians for four
months each.
(f) Proiect Office fUSS5R,O00)
equipment for a Project Office and cost of s-aff.
(g) Consultant Services (USS276,nnO)
({)  one agricultural training advisor for nine man-months to
develop curricula for the Tagabe Agricultural School and in-
service training for extension, and to advise on selection of
candidates and suitable arrangements for overseas training.
(ii)  one agricultural extension specialist for 12 man-months to
review vresent operations of the extension service and assist
in the implementation of proposed revisions and innovations.
(iii)  one communications advisor for nine man-mon.ths to assist in
the design of information programs and materials and advise on
the selection of candidates and suitable arrangements for
overseas training.
Proiect Cost
2Q.       The total estimated cost of the Project, net of taxes, is USS3.875
atllion equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of USS2.5 million and local
currency cost of USSI.375 million equivalent. Cost estimates are based on
February 1QRF prices for machinery, equipment, civil works and services. The
total cost includes price contingencies which have been computed at projected
inflation rates varying from R% to 6% for local currency expenditures and from
7.51 to 6% for the foreign exchange cost for the period 1984-88. Consultant
services, to be financed by ADB, are estimated at USS9.200 per man-month.
Financing Plan
-An.      An IDA credit of USS2.0 million is proposed to cover USSI.6 million
of the foreign exchange cost and Ussn.4 million equivalent of the local
currency cost of the Project.  A proposed ADB loan of USS1.1 million will
finance ussn.S million of the foreign exchange cost and USSn.3 million of the
local currency cost. A technical assistance grant is being made separately by
ADB in the amount of USS265,non. Special conditions of effectiveness of the
IDA credit are that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB
loan and grant have been fulfilled. The ADB and IDA have agreed to cofinance
the Project on a loint financing basis, except for a provisior. of USS275,000
for consultants, which will be funded by the ADB. In accordance with the
azreements to be contained in the Letter of Credit Administration between IDA
and ADR, the IDA funds would be administered by ADB.  The total e.ternal
financing amounts to USS3.1 millior. or about 80% of the total project cost,
RO! of which is foreign cost and 20Z, local currency cost. The remaining



- 12 -
l ocal currency requirement of USS675.000 and the foreign exchange cost of
us1snn,non representing financial charges during implementation on the ADB
loan will be wade available by the Government from its annual budget./7
Financing of local costs is necessary to re'lieve the pressure on the Govern-
ment's scarce resources.
-41.      The Borrower will be the Republic of Vanuatu.  The credit proceeds
will be provided by the Government to the DALF through budgetary allocation.
The Government has given an assurance that funds required in addition to those
provided by ADB and IDA will be made available as needed (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.01). These borrowings will be authorized by
special legislation. The Government plans to present such legislation to the
Parliament as soon as possible after the signing of the Credit Agreement.  It
is expected that this Parliamentary session will take place during August
1QR3.  The Credit will take effect after the legislation has been passed, a
satisfactory legal opinion has been furnished to the Association, and the
special conditions of effectiveness have been met (para. 30).
Proiect Implementation Arrangements
'2.       The Executing Agency for the proposed Project will be DALF under the
Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources (NLNR). The Director of DALY, who
wll be designated as Project Director, reports to the Minister of Lands and
Natural Resources and supervises three sub-departments of Livestock Services,
Agricultural Services and Forestry Services (see para.24). For day-to-day
management, the Director will appoint a Project Manager who will operate a
Proiect Office to be established and staffed by a full-time accountant and
secretarial staff of DALF. Given the extreme shortage of qualified agri-
cultural officers in Vanuatu, this staffing arrangement seems the most
practical.
143.      At the national level, there will be a Project Coordinating Commit-
LZe chaired by the First Secretary of the MLNR. Its members will be the First
Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Commerce, Industry and Tourism; Director
of the National Planning and Statistics Office; and the Project Manager. The
Committee will irovide zuidance on policy and coordination issues and will act
as a forum for the resolution of project-specific problems that cannot be
resolved at lower levels.
14. The Govertment has been asked to provide the following assurances, which
are covenanted in the ADB Loan Agreement:
(a)  !an.; for experimentation plots, demonstration farms and the
proposed block or cluster planting will be acquired or made
av:.ilable prior to the financial year in which implementation
is scheduled;
/7   IDA is not financing any portion of the ADB capitalized fee.



(tb the Government will provide suitably qualified staff for the
Project Office, will replace the field extension workers
[eight) reassigned as demonstration farm managers, will
increase the staff of the Agricultural Information Office by
two rrofessionals and will recruit at least four trainees for
each demonstration farm; and
{c) the Government will make available to DALF a suitable short-
wave radio frequency.
Mi.       The project will be implemented over a five-year period (1984-
ORR'). The Drovision of couisultant services is phased over three or four
years (for three months every year) to ensure continuity of recommendations.
irinlementation and revisions.  The establishment of the experimentation plots
and demonstration farms is phased over the five-year period, with the comple-
tion of the last farm's development extending to the post-implementation
period. Tn-service as well as overseas training will be an ongoing feature
over the five-year period. The civil works and equipment of the Tagabe Agri-
cultural School are phased after the initial field stay of the training
consultant so thatt his views can be taken into account. Radio telephone
ecuivment is scheduled for the second year; this would facilitate improved
supervision and flow of information necessary for an efficient extension
service. The proposed implementation schedule has been prepared in consult-
ation with DALF and is considered realistic.
Procurement
-,7,      Tt has been agreed to procure all goods and services for the project
in accordance with ADB Guidelines for Procurement and consultants in
accordance with ADB Guidelines on the Use of Consultants. ADB is the lead
cof$nancinr organization and, since ADB's Guidelines were modeled after those
of the World Bank and IDA, they do not differ substantively from the IDA
Guidelines, except on the issue of source eligibility. Under the two previous
TDA projects cofinanced with ADB in other Pacific Island countries, separate
advertising was done so that all. member countries of ADB and IDA would be
eligible to hid. In order to avoid serious delays as occurred previously, it
has been agreed that ADR will finance all consultants' services under this
proiect, since this is the only area where the issue of eligibility is likely
to arisp. Contract values for goods and services will be too small to warrant
Tnternational Competitive Bidding and all contracts for machinery and equip-
ment uD to TsSfn,nln will be awarded under international shopping.  Off-the-
shelf items with contract values below USSiO,OOO will be procured through
local shopping. Civil works are considered to be too small and scattered in
different locations of the archipelago to be of interest to international
competitors. The civil works contracts, expected to total about 20, will be
awarded under local competitive bidding on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA and ADR. The above arrangements are satisfactory to IDA.



- 14 -
nisbursement
-AR.     TDsbursements for the proposed loan would be made over a five-year
Deriod (lQR4-RR) on a joint basis, approximately 73% IDA to 27% ADB.
Withdrawal applications will be reviewed by ADR in accordance with the terms
of the letter of credit administration (para. 3n) and disbursements from the
TDA credit would he made upon ADB's instructions. The reimbursement proce-
aures discussed below represent the agreements reached between ADB and the
Government witn which IDA reimbursement will conform:  (a) 100% of total
expenditures: for civil works and for training; (b) 100% of foreign
expenAitures, lnnl of local expenditures (ex-factory costs) and 80% of local
expenditures for items procured locally for machinery and equipment, vehicles
and agricultural inputs; and (c) inn% of incremental operating costs.
Accounting, Auditing. Monitoring
Aq.       Since Tndenendence, all Government investment in agriculture has
originated from external assistance. Different donors have applied different
administrative and accounting requirements and DALF's limited qualified man-
nower is severely stretched. The Department has an extremely limited capacity
for Droject monitoring and evaluation. In view of the continuing expansion of
externally financed activities, the Government has requested a technical
assistance grant from ADI to address the above problems. The institution-
building technical assistance will provide for 30 man-months of consultant
services to design and implement a basic management information system for
DALF, including cost accounting, and Droject monitoring and evaluation for all
externally assisted projects in agriculture. The consultant, a Management
Tnformation System Advisor, will train local counterparts, who will be staff
of the Proiect Office, in the application of the system. The total foreign
exchangp cost of this technical assistance, which will be met by a separate
ADB grant, is estimated at IJSS265,nnfl. Local currency expenditure of the
technical assistance will. be largely covpred under the cost of the Project
Office.
4n.       DALF's accounting procedures are maintained in accordance with the
G,overnment's budgetary and accounting practices, whereby separate budgets are
maintained for recurrent and capital expenditure. The recurrent budget is
funded by the Government's internal revenue and by contributions by the UK and
France. The cavital budget comprises all other external contributions of a
recurrent or capital nature, including capital aid by the former Condominium
porwers. DALF's accounts are annually audited by a government auditor. The
Govornment will continue to have DALF's accounts audited annually, including
sesarate accounts for the Project. DALF will furnish to the ADB and IDA
certified copies of the audited accounts not later than six months after the
end of each related fiscal year. DALF will furnish to the ADB and IDA such
Information on its account and audits thereon as they shall request from time
to time.



- 15 -
'P.nvironmental Considerations
41.       Under current agricultural practices, increases in population and
dpclining land resources would accelerate the rotation of food gardens and
bush fallow, exposing land more frequently to erosion risks. The Project will
gradually replace the wasteful subsistence rotation with improved agricultural
practices and will encourage establishment of perennial plantation crops and
pasture as permanent soil cover, leading to better land-use and erosion
control. Fertilizers and plant protection chemicals will be used only in
small quantities for crop establishment under the supervision of the extension
service and no environmental hazards are likely to result from their use.  A
maior source of fuel to be used as a result of the Project will be crop by-
products such as coconut husks and shells for drying the produce. Minor
quantities of imported fuels will be required for the operation of vehicles.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
42.       The Proiect will assist the Government's efforts to accelerate and
diversify smallholder agricultural development by consolidating and improving
the key agricultural support servtces of localized research, demonstration,
agricultural information and veterinary services.
430       The maior direct resu3ts will be:  increased benefits from invest-
ment in research and on-farm production programs funded by other sources; an
increase in cost effectiveness and operating efficiency of government ser-
vices; greater availability of suitably trained manpower; and better prospects
for continued beef exports resulting from proper laboratory screening and cer-
tification.
44.       As a result of the application of improved services, the Project
will contribute indirectly to increased cash income and improved living
standards of smallholders. Other indirect contributions of the Project will
be: (i) increased participation of the smallholders in the growth of the cash
economy; (ii) expansion and diversification of agricultural production and
exports; (iii) increased foreign exchange earnings; and (iv) increased
government revenue as a result of export taxation.  Oua.tification of these
benefits is not nossible. since the Project is not directly involved in
oroductive components and it is not possible to determine the pace, level and
direction of future smallholder involvement in cash enterprises.
4S.       Risks.  The risk that the DALF might encounter implementation dif-
ficulties has been addressed by the provision of consultants and technical
assistance for institution building. Long-term issues about the availability
of substanttal funds for the development of smallholder agriculture and the
responsiveness of local farmers can only be determined over time, based on the
success of this project.



- 16 _
PART V - LEGAL TNSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
46.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Vanuatu and IDA and the Recommendation provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are beir.g distributed separ-
atelv to the Executive Directors. The special conditions of effectiveness
are: that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB loan have
been fulfilled; and that all conditions precedent to effectiveness of the ADB
grant have been fulfilled (para. An).
47.       T am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.-
PART VT - RECOMMENDATION
41q       T recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Oureshi
Senior Vice President
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
Julv 14, 1083



-17-                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 3
BASIC DATA (As of May 19RI)
Area                     Population                           Density
12,lRQ ki2                125,0nO         (mid-1q82)           10 persons/km2
Rate of Growth
1.5 (Q197n-82)
Social/Devel-opuent Tndicators
Life expeetancy at birth (year)
Arcess to safe water (Z) in urban area                         ...
Access to safe water (2) in rural area                          ,
Primarv school enrollment
Adult literacy ratio  %).
Calories intake 'er day per capita (Cal)                       2,503 (1980)
Protein intake per day per capital (Gram)                         65 (1Q80)
Persons per physician                                          3,910 (1970;
Eneray consumption per capita (kg. coal equiv.)                  505 (1980)
1979
Labor Force ('nnn) /a                                               52.52
Agriculture                                                    41 N
Non-agriculture                                                11.05
Gross Domestic Product                    1978    1979       1980    1981    1982
GDP at current market
prices (Mn. Vt)                   ...     ...    6,90o       .. .     ..
GDP at constant prices
Growth rate (*)                   ...     ...        ...     ...
Per capita GDP (USS)                   ...      ...      620       ...     520
Production Indexes                        1978 l_7Q    1980           1981    1982
r              Azriculture (lfQh-lq7l=flnO)            135     135       108      141       110
Growth rate (x)                 21.6        -    -20.0      30.6    -22.0
Manufacturing                            -        _        _         _        _
Electricity (1976100)                 121     133       136       ego      ...
Growth rate (%)                  11.n     9.Q      2.3       see       ...
/a  Data relate to workinc population.
Data not available.
-        Magnitude zero.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
1978     1979      1980     1981     1982   (Est.)
Price Indexes
Consumer (Vila-low income)          115.7    120.6    134.1    170.9    181.5
(1976 1st Q. - 100)
Annual increase (Z)             6.4       4.2     11.2      27.4      6.2
Money and Credit
Money supply (Mn, Vt) /a            1,282    1,380    1,306    1,248    1,391
Annual change (Z)              -3.5       7.6     -5.4      -4.4     11.5
Commercial banks
Time & savings
Deposits (Nn, Vt)          4,523    4.625    3,717    4,291    5,811
Loans & discounts
(Mn, Vt)                   2,847    2,483    2,697    3,270    3,312
Government Finance (Mn, Vt) FY
Current revenue                     1,153    1,419    1,421    1,472    1,732
Current expenditure                3,363    3,728    2;682    2,371    2,472
Current surplus/deficit (-) -2,210   -2,309   -1,261        -899     -740
Capital receipts                       -         -      803         -
Capital expenditure                   193      389      364    1,000    1,000
Capital account surplus/
deficit (-)                 -193     -389      -364         -      ego
Overall suprlus/deficit (-)       -2,403   -2,698   -1,625       -899     -740
Financing
Domestic borrowing, net
Foreign grants                2,285    2,214    1,162        899      740
Use of cash balances            118       484      463         -        -
Balance of Payments (Mn, US$)
Exports (f.o.b.)                    41.5      47.3      38.1     32.8     25.7
Imports (f.o.b.)                   -51.2    -58.9    -56.2    -47.4    -53.9
Trade balance                  -9.7    -11.6    -18.1    -14.6    -28.2
Services (net)                     -10.8      -7.0     -5.9       ego      ...
Transfers (net)                     33.5      39.2      17.1      see       ego
Current balance                13.0      20.6     -6.9       ..
Capital flows and errors
and omissions (net)           -18.5    -28.1       0.5       ego
Overall balance                -5.5      -7.5     -6.4       ...
... Data not available
-   Magnitude zero
/a New concept introduced in 1981.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
- 19 -
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982   (Est.)
Leading Export Commodities (%)
Copra                                37.7      46.4      24.2     37.8      32.1
Fish (re-export)                     31.5      25.6      43.1     29.2      31.2
Timber                                 1.2      1.4       0.1       0.7      4.4
Cocoa                                 6.1       2.9       3.8      4.1       2.6
Beef and Veal                         4.9       4.3       3.1       5.6      8.3
(       Manganese                              2.0       0.8       0.3         -        -
Leading Import Commodities (%)
Food, beverages & tobacco              ...     23.6      20.2     21.7      21.2
Industrial materials                   ...     12.4      12.4      12.4     14.5
Fuel & lubricants                      ...      5.8      10.3      9.7      11.1
Machinery                              ...      9.2       7.1       8.4
Transport & machinery equipment        ...      8.0       7.1       6.2
Consumer-goods                         ...     16.3      13.4      17.2     19.8
Exchange Rate (Vatu $ /a                 73.86    69.16    69.25    86.43    95.06
International Reserves (Mn S)
Total (end of year                     ...      ...       6.0      19.4     18.2
Ratio to merchandise imports
(months)                         ...       ...      1.6       5.6       5.1
External Public Debt (Mn S)
Outstanding (disbursed only
end year)                        ...       5.6      5.3
Service payments (during year)        ...       0.3       0.3
Debt service ratio (%)                 ...      7.0       7.8
... Date not available
/a Average of the rates used by the Customs Department.



ANNEX II
_ 20 -
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP
OPERATIONS IN VANUATU
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(as of Narch 31, 1983)
The proposed project will be the first Bank Group operation in
Vanuatu,
B. Statement of IFC Investments
There have been no IFC investments in Vanuatu.
C. Projects in Execution
None.



ANNEX III
- 21 -
VANUATU
Agricultural Extension and Training Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section T: Timetable of Ke;, Events
(a)  Time required to Prepare project:         2 years
(h)  Proiect prepared by:                      Government of Vanuatu with
assistance from ADB and
consultants.
(c)  First Prespntation to the ADB:            September 1981
(d)  Denarture of ADB ADrraisal Mission:       February 1983.
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:               July 1983.
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:            September 1983.
Section IT: Special Bank Group Implementation Actions:
PeriodAc participation in project supei vision.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
'i) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB loan
shall hnve been fulfilled (para. 30); and
(ii) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB grant
have been fulfilled (para. 30).
(h) Other Special Conditions:
(i) land for experimentation plots, demonstration farms and the
proposed block or cluster planting will be acquired or made
available prior to the financial year in which implementation
is scheduled (para. 341;
(ii) the Government will provide suitably qualified staff for the
Proiect Office, will replace the field extensior workers
(eight) reassigned as demonstration farm managers, will
increase the staff of the Agricultural Information Office by
two professionals and will recruit at least four trainees for
each demonstration farm (para. 34); and
(iii) the Government will make available to DALF a suitable short-
wave frequency (para. 34).



iBRD 17341
,_                          ,iv '                        so 
TORRES
VANUATU
C* aptal
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                            ~ Intwotsnal A.rport  
-Sufaced Roads                 |
-                                              -- stAmwN15d Roads
ANKS  -~                         - - -.  Prvmcoitl Ba rans
a _-
II.                                      ~~~~~~~~~MAEWO 
5-              E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
ESPIRITU           C
SANTO                             A
PENTECOTE
71~'Z'7   AMIRYM
?t -   t? W       0-2fW
J ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ - *-t  -- l-                                           .e..
*   ~-               i 
,. -.-  \t                                  .                               -       -_ __    _       __ __,
-^    - __  -           t,V.   . c___._.7v -.oC
MALAXULA         Lc.           Lc       '
-. I~AM& .0 LOPEVI  LrERROMANGO
C TONGOA
'ee                               EMAE
_'-  .U       -      _-                                                                    ,5
EFATE ,X --
,,a.S                                          _ _ . _ _                   |                 W:NA00M6-
_ _    _       _        _       _       _       _        _                                     .1 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
A NA T-OM






