Document of
THE ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4638-VA
APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TRAINING PROJECT
July 14, 1983
FILE COPY
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only
in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise
be disclosed without World Bank or Asian Development Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of 15 May 1983)
-Currency Unit                             Vatu (Vt)
$1.00                                     Vt 97.8369
Vt 100                                     $   1.0221
On 1 January 1981, the New Hebrides Franc was renamed Vatu.
One Vatu was equal to one new Hebrides Franc. The Vatu
was initially pegged to the French Franc at Vtl.0O = 0.61875 FF.
Since 10 September 1981, the Vatu has been pegged to Special
Drawing Rights (SDR) at the rate of VtlO6.20 = SDR 1.
In this Report an exchange rate of 97 Vatu to the Dollar is
used as prevailing during Appraisal in February 1983.
NOTE]S
(i)   In this Report "$" refers to US dollars.
(ii) The Fiscal Year oif the Government ends on 31 December.



ABBREVIATIONS
CSB          -    Cooperative Savings Bank
DALF         -    Department of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry
DBV          -    Development Bank of Vanuatu
EDF          -    European Development Fund
EEC          -    European Economic Community
FAO          -    Food and Agriculture Organization
IRCC         -    Institut de Recherches du Caf6, du Cacao et autres
Plantes Stimulantes
IRHO         -    Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et
Oleagineaux
MLNR          -    Ministry of Land and Natural Resources
MFCIT         -    Ministry of Finance, Commerce, Industry and Tourism
NPSO         -    National Planning and Statistics Office
VCF          -    Vanuatu Cooperative Federation
VLDC         -    Vanuatu Livestock Development Corporation
GLOSSARY
custom       -    Social patternsin the village life of indigenous
Pacific islanders strongly influenced by their
ideas on land ownership and spiritual beliefs.
customary
ownership   -    Land tenure system in Pacific islands based on
"custom".  Land "belongs" to a group, typically a
clan, its ancestors and descendants.  Purchase and
sale of land are not therefore considered possible
under "custom". Boundaries are vaguely defined by
"ancestral utilization".
fermentary   -    Building and facilities used to ferment and dry
cacao beans.
fresh copra  -    Undried coconut kernel removed from the nut.
pulpery      -    Building and facilities used to process coffee
cherry to parchment.
outer islands-    All islands except Efate and Espiritu Santo.
ni-Vanuatu   -    Indigenous people of Vanuatu.



'}                                                   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PROJECT FOCUS, DESIGN AND RATIONALE
About 85 per cent of the population of the Republic of
Vanuatu depends on agriculture for its livelihood. In the agriculture
sector, smallholders play an important role. Though most of their
production is for subsistence, they produce about 75 per cent of the
marketed copra. A considerable portion of the country's exports
originate from smallholdings. After Independence, the importance of
smallholdings has further increased relative to the country's plantation
sector. Uncertainty regarding land tenure and shortage of labor have
led to a decline in investment and production in commercial plantations.
The Government has therefore given considerable importance to schemes
aimed at improving the efficiency of the smallholders.
The Government has been successful in obtaining significant
external assistance for station-based agricultural research and for
production-oriented smallholder projects such as replanting senescent
coconut, planting coffee and cacao, livestock development and improving
the quality of primary processing units. However, the link between
research and its application to smallholdings requires strengthening
Key areas in need of further improvement and strengthening are:
(i) localized research to test the findings of research stations under
varying soil and climatic conditions of smallholdings; (ii) demonstration
of new practices on smallholdings to test their relevance; (iii) training
of staff for major smallholder support services; (iv) training of young
smallholders; (v) organization and facilities for extension, agricultural
information, livestock services and agricultural training; and (vi) overall
administrative and project implementation capability of the Department of
Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (DALF).
The proposed Project will provide for: (i) experimentation
plots and smallholder demonstration farms, simulating the smallholder
environment, at eight Agricultural Centers of DALF on seven major islands;
(ii) in-service training, overseas fellowships and study tours for the
existing extension staff, improved curricula for the National Agricultural
School at Tagabe and training for young smallholders at the demonstration
farms together with necessary facilities; (iii) housing, storage, transport
and radio-communication for the extension service; (iv) overseas fellow-
ships and equipment for the information service; (v) veterinary laboratory
facilities for the Livestock Service; and (vi) consultant services for
training, extension, agricultural information and institution-building of
DALF.
The total cost of the proposed Project is $3.875 million
equivalent of which $2.5 million is in foreign exchange and $1.375 million
equivalent in local currency. The Project will be jointly co-financed
with IDA to the extent of $3.1 million, except for consultant services
which will be funded exclusively by the Bank under parallel financing.
The Bank would provide $0.8 million in foreign exchange and $0.3 million



equivalent of the local currency cost.  It iIs proposed to provide the loan
of $1.1 million from the Bank's Special Funds resources. IDA would con-
tribute $1.6 million in foreiLgn exchange and $0.4 million equivalent of
the local currency cost.  The remaining local currency cost of $675,000
equivalent and $100,000 of foreign exchange cost representing financial
charges during Project implemientation (20 per cent of total Project cost)
will be borne by the Government. In addition, the Bank would provide a
technical assistance grant of $265,000 to strengthen DALF's technical and
managerial capabilities. The Borrower will be the Republic of Vanuatu.
DALF will be the Executing Agency for the proposed Project and technical
assistance.
The main achievement of the Project wou:Ld be improvement of
smallholder support services for the benefit of about 19,000 smallholder
households of Vanuatu, increasing their cash income;, expansion and diversi-
fication of agricultural procluction and exports, increase in foreign
exchange earnings, incremental government revenue from export tax and
increase in qualified manpower.
The main risks irL achieving the Project"s ultimate objectives
arise from the prevailing social pattern and the difficulty in determiniLng
the pace and direction of chaLnge to which smallholders c:an be motivated.
While a large number of traditional smallholders may avail themselves of
the proposed services only maLrginally, there are islands with increasing
scarcity of land, having about one-third of the country's population,
where the response to new agricultural practices is increasing.  Moreover,
the younger generation is likely to be involved in cash enterprises to a
greater extent than their pre decessors in order to meet the increasing
demand for consumer goods and services.
The success of the Project also depends on the continued
provision of external assistance to production-oriented programs and on
the Government's ability to meet local cost.  The Gcovernment has shown
considerable resourcefulness in attracting external finance and in meeting
changing budgetary requirements and is expected to be able to raise the
funds required. In addition, 35 per cent ($350,000) of the Bank's first
loan to the Development Bank of Vanuatu, has been earmarked for agriculture,
stock farming and fishing.  The risk of shortcomings in the implementation
capability has been addressed bv the provision of consultants and techniLcal
assistance for establishing a basic management information system.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
MAP        Republic of Vanuatu                          (i)
I.  INTRODUCTION                                             1
II.  BACKGROUND                                               2
A.   Agricultural Sector                                 2
B.   Smallholder Production                              3
C.   Smallholder Support Services and Constraints        4
D.   External Assistance to Agriculture
and Implementation Constraints                   9
III.  THE PROJECT                                             13
A.   Objective and Scope                                13
B.   Detailed Features                                  14
C.   Project Cost                                       19
D.   Financing Plan                                     20
E.   Environmental Effects                              21
F.   Energy Impact                                      21
G.   Advisory Technical Assistance                      21
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                   23
A.   Executing Agency                                   23
B.   Accounts and Audits                                23
C.   Procurement and Consultancy Services               24
D.   Project Implementation                             24
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS               27
A.   Benefits and Justification                         27
B.   Project Risks                                      28
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                         29
APPENDIXES                                              31



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  I  



.()                                           MAP  I
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
# rowts s.                                     
0  ~~~EAP~~~~AA                 U   AG3~~~~"RC'.laA4. AAM
0    M.> *C -JLrJ'AL 't-1SA
A   "WAaM*A_ rw*A.. cvXrrR
MAN"  ILL                               cxrt
, F O~~~~~C                                         SCALE
0 20
o         /*                                ~~~~~~~~~N
MAAEKUiW_
EPt t
KMA< ,   g4EPjF6 S.
ERt
40" I
MALEK %    :                                  ANeATyJE  O;G
*  .     ,       ,       ,,'.ATU.e         1
, ~~sAL A
s~~~~~~~~'l                 S~~~~~~~~~~EA
/~~~~~~~~~OO
4/         N~~~~~~~~~.-~-OFT
*    -0~~~~~~~~EROAO
'17~~~~~~~~~~~~AM
4*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFiYj



IV



I. INTRODUCTION
1.          A Smallholder Agricultural Development Project was first
proposed by the Government of the Republic of Vanuatu to the Bank in
September 1981 during a Bank Country Programming Mission. Subse-
quently the Government requested technical assistance from the Bank
for project preparation. Provision of technical assistance was approved
by the Bank in June 1982 and a team of consultants prepared a feasibility
study and submitted their final report to the Government and the Bank
in December 1982.
2.          At the request of the Government, a Bank Mission visited
Vanuatu to appraise the proposed Project from 2 February to 3 March 1983.
The Mission was composed of D. Lepper (Project Economist/Mission Chief),
C. de Burgh Codrington (Agronomist), C. Claasz (Country Officer),
A. Mufti (Counsel), C. Brookson (Processing and Marketing Expert/
Consultant) and E. Varona (Mass Communication Expert/Consultant). The
Mission visited proposed Project sites in major islands of the country
and held discussions with Government agencies, the Development Bank of
Vanuatu (DBV), the Vanuatu Cooperative Federation (VCF), primary
cooperative societies and private firms involved in handling smallholders'
produce. The Mission also interviewed rural community leaders and
smallholders. This Report is based on the feasibility study, the
Mission's findings in the field and,discussions with Government officials.



II. BACKGROUND
A. Agricultural Sector
3.          Agriculture is the mainstay of Vanuatu's economy and accounts
for over 80 per cent of the country's total exports. About 85 per cent
of its population of 126,COO depends on agriculture for its livelihood.
As in many of the South Pacific countries, the economy of Vanuatu has a
large subsistence-based rural sector. The small population is spread
over some 80 islands scattered in the Pacific Ocean. About 100 languages
are spoken in the country which also has a franco-phone and an anglo-phone
orientation. Its people follow various traditional "customs" and belong
to different religious denominations. Land is generally plentiful in
relation to population and of the 1.2 million ha, some 0.5 million ha is
classified as potential agricultural land.  The potential arable land per
household engaged in agriculture is on average 27 ha, of which only 11.5
ha are utilized at present.  There are, however, wide variations in popu-
lation densities between islands resulting in different ratios of land use
to land reserves!/ and some of the uncultivated land is not utilized
because of conflicting claims among custom owners.
4.          Commercial farming, mainly large-scale coconut plantations,
was introduced by European settlers in the last century. Production was
concentrated on three of the larger islands, Efate, E.spiritu Santo and
Malekula.  Individual settlers and colonial companies claimed large tracts
of land, only part of which (about 15 per cent of utilized agricultural
land) could be developed in view of inadequate labor available for plantation
work on a continuous basis. Uncertainty with regard to land tenure after
the country's Independence in 1980 led to a decline in investment and
production in the plantation sector.
5.          Exposure to European ways of life and farming practices
influenced the country's social and economic development. The desire for
cash goods and services led smallholders at subsistence level of farming
to establish their own coconut groves to get some money. However, sub-
sistence farming is widespread and the traditional way of life based on
"1custom" and associated ceremcnies continues.  Barter is widely practised,
with smallholders directly exchanging dried copra for consumer goods.
While there is an increasing demand for non-subsistence goods and servicles
(such as schooling, health service, consumer goods), its magnitude and
effects on market-oriented prcduction are not known.
6.          Smallholders currently produce about 75 per cent of the
marketed copra and cocoa and rear about 30 per cent of the cattle. The
1/   See Appendix 1, Table 1.



government's agricultural development strategy aims at increasing
smallholder production and encouraging rehabilitation of the plantation
sector. With limited qualified manpower, improvement of the plantation
sector would appear easier than smallholder development. However, the
plantati,n sector faces major obstacles to progress arising from a
constitutional provision whereby all "alienated" lands would be returned
to the indigenous custom owners or their descendants.  Former plantation
owners may negotiate a lease with custom owners or alternatively claim
compensation for land improvements, according to legal provisions.
Implementation of these steps has been hampered by conflicting claims by
groups of custom owners. The former expatriate owners hold that the
compensation provision is unfair, while the government or custom owners
do not have adequate funds to pay compensation. A system of land courts
is being established to resolve land disputes but it will take time to
show significant results. Hence, only limited expatriate investment in
the plantation sector could be stimulated. In these circumstances,
smallholder development provides the major opportunity to increase
agricultural production and exports in the short and medium term.
Accordingly, the First National Development Plan (1982-1986) places
considerable emphasis on smallholder agriculture and sets out targets
for the Plan period including areas to be planted under different crops
on smallholdings (2,650 ha of coconut, 3,600 ha of cacao and 700 ha of
coffee).
B. Smallholder Production
7.          Smallholders in Vanuatu are farmers working on land to which
they have a 'claim' under customary ownership without as a rule employing
paid labor. Under customary ownership, land rights are regarded as
inalienable and are vested in a group, typically a clan, which recognizes
rights to utilize such land in accordance with social status and needs.
Production from smallholdings meets the farmers' subsistence requirements.
Yields from root crops such as yam, taro, sweet potato, cassava are high
(about 18 t/ha). As they are also easy to cultivate, it is unlikely that
they will be substituted by grain crops such as rice, though imported
rice is increasingly becoming part of the farmers' diet. Traditional
subsistence practices normally yield a significant surplus over daily
requirements, to meet unforeseen demands and social obligations. The
food gardens which are established in newly cleared bush land, are
maintained for about three years before being allowed to revert to their
original condition for an extended period of 15 to 25 years. The area
of land involved in this kind of rotation is about 8 ha on average. Most
of the smallholders' labor is devoted to subsistence practices absorbing
an estimated 250 labor days per family in a year, which includes a size-
able portion used for growing ceremonial yams and for raising boars valued
for their circular tusks.
8.          Smallholders' cash requirements are met mainly from their
coconut plantations. The total area covered by smallholder coconut is



estimated at about '`5,000 ha or about 2.3 ha per household on average-
requiring about 38 man-days a year.  Export of copra indicates an average
yield of 750 kg/ha and in addition fresh nuts are consumed on the small-
holdings. Established coconut: groves yield a high return of about Vt770
per man-day (about $8). About one quarter of the coc:onut: groves are
senescent (over 65 years cld) and another quarter will enter this group
in the next 20 years.  To a smaller extent cacao (3,750 ha) was planted
by smallholders, but appears poorly maintained because of more stringent
labor requirements and lack of' processing and market-Lng support in the
past leading to low returns. Smallholders' involvement in coffee is at
present marginal. The crop is, however, finding increasi.ng acceptance
on the southern island of Tanna with Government assistance.
9.           The smallholder usually gathers fallen coconuts, when he is
in need of cash, on average at: three-month intervals, The nuts are split
in the field and wet copra is extracted. In the absence of on-farm
transport, copra is handcarried by the smallholder together with some
shells and husks for fuel to the nearest copra dryer, owned by him or
shared on a neighborhood basis. Often, husks and shells are not carried
in sufficient quantity over long distances and proper drying is not possible,
resulting in deterioration of copra.  The smoke-drying process used is
crude and leads to further delerioration in color and extractable oil
quality, depressing export: pr:ices by about 10 per cent below those pre-
vailing in the Philippines.  'he Government has recently introduced
quality grading standards for smoke-dried copra. As a result, there was
some improvement in qualit:y and overseas buyers who had threatened to stop
copra imports from Vanuatu, continued to buy.
10.         Most of Vanuatu's cattle are reared on commercial plantations.
lowever, cattle are increasingly accepted on smallholdings. Available
estimates indicate that about 30 per cent of the cattle are on small-
holdings', however, in absolute terms these estimates vary between 12,000
and 35,000 head. The lower figure seems more likely as there is only
limited incentive such as good market outlets for smallholders on the
outer islands. Smallholders pay little attention to improved husbandry,
and calving rates are low at about 50 per cent. Unimproved pasture can
sustain only one animal oii evesry two hectares. The Government has plans
to develop breeding grounds in outer islands and transhil? young cattle
to Efate and Santo for fat:tening and thereby make better use of limited
capacity for transporting cattle.
C.  Smallholder Support Services and Constraints
11.         The-major constraints on more rapid agricultural development
are socio-political, related to traditional 'Life-styles and social
structures of village comnunities, customary land ownership, and the
desire to preserve ni-Vanuatu traditional values. T'he clan structure and
1/   See Appendix 1, Tablea 1.



-5-
the customary land tenure are not conducive to individual initiative,
since the fruits of an individual's efforts are likely to be shared by
many other members of the clan as part of a wide range of obligations.
Hence, the pace of development is set more by the community than by the
individual. Small clan settlements are physically separated from each
other by disputed and therefore undeveloped land. As the marketable
surplus is dispersed in small quantities, it would be uneconomical to
invest in transport infrastructure. Since no rapid change is expected
in the present socio-political setting, it would be appropriate to give
priority to resolving technical and administrative constraints on services
currently provided to smallholders.
1. Transport
12.         Transport and handling facilities are best developed where
large-scale plantations or relatively high population densities provide
sufficient produce to justify investment in roads, wharves and central
storage. Dispersal of smallholders mostly with small quantities of
marketable produce does not provide economic justification for infra-
structure development. The present arrangement is therefore likely to
continue in many locations, which involves collection of smallholder
produce from a large number of beach points and its transport by small
boats to interisland vessels anchored off the coral banks surrounding
most of the islands. Multiple handling of produce from smallholdings to
interisland vessels is increasing marketing costs. The Vanuatu Cooperative
Federation (VCF) has therefore started to set up central island stores to
gather produce from smallholdings and primary cooperative stores to reduce
handling and shipping costs. Interisland transport capacity is considered
sufficient to pick up the produce offered for sale by smallholders. Ocean-
going vessels call frequently at the two export ports of Port Vila on Efate
and Luganville on Espiritu Santo. Storage facilities are also considered
adequate at both locations.
2. Marketing
13.         Private trading companies, primary cooperative societies and
VCF are involved in the marketing of produce and distribution of consumer
goods to smallholders. Some 250 primary cooperative societies with an
average membership of 47 each are registered with the Cooperative
Department of the Ministry of Finance, Commerce, Industry and Tourism
(MFCIT). They handle about 63 per cent of smallholders' copra and a
quarter of the nation's distribution of imported food and drinks. However,
post-Independence events led to an erosion of funds through excessive credit
and embezzlement. The present financial status of primary cooperative
societies is still being assessed by the Department of Cooperatives.
14.         VCF was formed by about 100 primary cooperative societies.  In
recent years, it incurred losses but appears to be on its way to recovery,
following a management contract with an Australian firm of consultants.



- 6 -
VCF's share in copra marketing is increasing (presently albout 11 per cent)
and a return to profitable operations is expected by its management. It
is at present not clear how VCF's policy of setting up central island
stores will affect the business of primary cooperative societies.
3. Credit and Banking
15.         Deposit accounts are available to smallholders through the
Cooperative Savings Bank (CSB), operating as a division of VCF and
employing secretaries of VCF member cooperative societies as their agents.
While about 5,000 smallholders are reported to maintain savings accounts,
these appear to be largely inactive and most of the cash is kept at the
smallholders' homes. The recent expansion in business of CSB is due to
its handling of Government transfers of salaries and funds to the islands.
16.         Institutional credit is available to smallholders through the
Development Bank of Vanuatu (DBV). The Bank has provided a loan of $1.0
million to DBV of which $350,000 are earmarked for agriculture.-! DBV
utilizes the Department of Agriculture, Livestock and For,estry's Loan
Officers for loan appraisal and CSB agencies for repayment of principal
and interest. In 1982 DBV provided 341 micro loans (generally below $50CI)
each averaging about $350 mostly for agriculture and 21 loans for stock
farming (average loan size being about $2,000). Nineteen other loans
for agriculture (about $5,500 per loan) given by DBV cannot be considered.
smallholder loans. In general, it appears that most smallholders prefer
to raise the limited cash required for their minor investmnents from their
clan members and friends rather than from a banking institution.
4. Know-How and Motivation
17.         Information on coconut research is available from the Institut
de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineaux (IRHO), on Espiritu Santo
Island. Research on coffee, cacao and other cash crops will be undertaken
at a station presently being established by the Institut de Recherches
du Cafe, du Cacao et autres Plantes Stimulantes (IRCC) on the same island.
The Government-owned Vanuatu Livestock Development Corporation (VLDC) on
Efate is also undertaking some research in breeding and pasture establish-
ment.  The key element in communicating available know-how and motivating
smallholders for change is the Extension Service Division of DALF for
crop production and the Livestock Service of DALF for animal husbandry.
The recently established Information Office of the Ministry of Lands and
Natural Resources (M4LNR) has a.n important supportive function. The
Department of Education has introduced compulsory teaching of agriculture
in primary and secondary educa.tion. Post-secondary agricultural training
is provided at the Tagabe National Agricultural School under DALF, in a
three-year course with an intake of about 30 students every three years,
1/   Loan No. 616, approved 14 December 1982.



- 7 -
half of whom take to the English medium while the other half do the French
medium.  Ni-Vanuatu plantation owners are provided a practical-oriented
plantation management course for 11 months, this being a Catholic Church
initiative supported by DALF's Training Division.
18.         Constraints on effective functioning of various services
provided are manifold:
19.         (i) Research.  Station-based research as undertaken by the
existing institutions is not directly applicable to the varying edaphic
conditions of the archipelago. It has to be tested at various locations.
Presently, there are no funds to undertake such an effort. Introduction
of new agricultural practices for the benefit of smallholders requires
knowledge of their impact on operations and of their implications in
terms of transport, processing and marketing. There are no facilities
at present to test the suitability of new practices for smallholders.
20.         (ii) Demonstration.  Demonstration plots for coffee, coconut
and cacao have been established on smallholder farms. In many cases the
plots are located away from the main enterprises of the smallholding.
Establishment of these plots is heavily subsidized and there are cases
where the smallholder's involvement is minimal. Smallholders visit these
demonstration plots on days arranged by the Extension Service. The
demonstration effect is regarded as limited, since the demonstration plot
is not perceived as an integrated part of smallholders' operations. No
funds are available to introduce improved demonstration arrangements.
21.         (iii) Training.  Children attending formal education often
leave their smallholdings at an early age and stay at boarding schools.
They return only during vacation and their exposure to smallholder agri-
culture is, therefore, rather limited. The Department of Education's efforts
of introducing agricultural subjects into formal education will be limited
for quite some time for want of qualified teachers and school-owned farm
land. The medium used in education, French or English, is not usually
spoken outside the school and is not sufficiently mastered in many cases
even after secondary education. The Tagabe National Agricultura:L School
admits about 30 students with this background every three years for a
three-year course and continues teaching in French and English, whereas
Bislama, the local version of Pidgin English, is the lingua franca used by
all ni-Vanuatu. The school has an adequate number of teachers but they
lack special experience or training in teaching agriculture. The present
course content and ways of instruction are not closely geared to the future
work of the students, and alternative curricula have therefore to be developed.
22.         Most of the extension service personnel have completed the
Tagabe course. While some have adjusted to the requirements of their jobs,
many are yet to learn the skills and they need annual in-service refresher
courses. These courses are handled by staff without a professional back-
ground in teaching agriculture.



-8-
23.         (iv) Extension Service.  The Extension Service for Agriculture
has 49 professional staff on its roll, including two senior officers, one
in charge of the northern part of the country and the other the southern
part. With the introduction of further regional subdivision, there are
six Extension Officers in charge of supervising Field Extension Officers
and as many Specialist Extension Officers at Agricultural Centers.  In
addition, there are four field staff for 'Special Projects' (coconut
planting, cacao planting, IRHO), the Tagabe National Agricultural School,
the Agricultural Information Office and the Plantation Management Training
Center.  Two staff members are on overseas training.  As a result, only
29 staff are available in the field to work with farmers (or 33, if four
special projects staff are included) giving a ratio of about 600 households
per extension worker on average.  Such a ratio is considered adequate, if
group approaches form a significant part of the extensioln effort. Deploy-
ment of the field force has to take into account transportation and
communication problems and the ratio of households per field extension
officer (Y7n-specialist) varies from less than a hundred to more than a
thousand-
24.         The Government is attempting to provide nationwide extension
cowerage and present deployment of staff does not reflect population density
in relation to agricultural land.  On Erromango, for instance, with only
200 households and ample lands, one Extension Officer, onae specialist
extension officer and one field assistant are stationed, while on Tanna
with 3,700 households and relatively high population density, only three
extension officers (incluiding one specialist) are available.
25.         Extension Staff are mainly recruited from among the graduates
of the Tagabe National Agricultural School. The maina se:Lection criterion
has been academic achievement rather than individual capiacity for extension
work. As the graduates are young (between 18 and 20 years) and work without
the support of an experienced officer, they have problems of being accepted
by smallholders. As a matter of policy, the extension personnel are
assigned to islands other than their native island so that they can perform
their duties without submitting themselves to the demands of their own
social structure.
26.         The extension service has not been able to guide field officers
on selection of farmers for particular programs or on effective organization
of their work.  The approach is geared to serve individual farmers, and
group efforts have practically not been tried. The 'achievement' is
considered in terms of planting targets rather than successful operation
of plantations with due regard to processing and marketing. As a result,
isolated plantings of 0.25 ha to 0.5 ha are found scattered on islands
and there are doubts about their future profitable operal-ion.
1/   See Map and Appendix 1, Table 1.



27.         No consistent records are available on the performance of
the Extension Service.  Evaluation of staff has not been undertaken since
Independ?nce. Contacts with the supervising officer are limited to about
two inspection tours a year and messages passed on by public telephone
or the Vanuatu broadcasting station. In some areas, field staff do not
have transport or adequate housing and storage.  Under these circumstances
it is difficult for the Extension Service to achieve satisfactory results.
28.         (v) Information Service.  The Information Office, which was
recently established, has been organizing a weekly half-hour radio program
and has started to prepare reference books for extension staff and led a
major campaign for copra quality improvement involving radio, posters and
t-shirts. Currently the staff consist of only one (expatriate) Information
Officer and two trainees. Without sufficient funds for equipment and
materials, production of popular materials of interest to smallholders and
extension staff cannot be done satisfactorily. The scope for close
coordination between information and extension activities is therefore
limited.
29.          (vi) Livestock Services.  The Livestock Service of DALF is
responsible for livestock extension service, meat inspection, veterinary
clinical services, control and eradication of disease, and animal quarantine.
The veterinary service has six officers, as many laboratory techniicians
and seven technical assistants for meat inspection and laboratory work. The
extension section consists of one extension officer supervising six field
extension workers. Staff strength is considered adequate. Operation of
livestock extension outside the agriculture extension service involves
some duplication in supervisory cost, and there are difficulties in
coordinating the activities of the services in the field; reorganization
of the arrangement should therefore be considered. Laboratory facilities
are found insufficient for meat inspection and certification or for
assistance in the control of major diseases. The present arrangement of
sending meat samples to New Caledonia for laboratory screening is found
unsatisfactory. To safeguard future exports of beef, which is of good
quality and amounts to 700 mt of boneless meat annually, and for a
diversification of markets, it is essential that appropriate laboratory
tests and credible certification are undertaken.
D. External Assistance to Agriculture
and Implementation Constraints
30.         The First National Development Plan (1982-1986) estimates
total agricultural capital budget expenditure at Vt3,244 million or
$33.4 million. Research activities would absorb Vt445 million or $4.6
million. Various production-oriented programs are estimated to absorb
Vt2,536 million or $26.1 million. The rest of Vt263 million ($2.7 million)
is earmarked for land use mapping, bujrcellosis (cattle disease) eradication
and bush clearing units. Since the revenue base is not yet sufficient for
the recurring budget, all funds for the capital expenditure program are



- 10 -
expected to be raised from external assistance. Agreement with aid
donors is yet to be reached for several production-oriented programs.
As of January 1983 aid donors had allocated funds amountinig to Vt512
million or $5.3 million for ongoi7g and new projects, mostly (78 per
cent) for agricultural research.I
31.         Major ongoing and planned programs are:
(i)   Research
-   Oil crop research is done by IRHO research station,
including cocor.ut selection and breediLng, seed
gardens, improved seed nuts for nurseries, research
on coconut pests and on intercropping coconut with
cacao. The ongoing program is funded by I]RHO. The
expenditure over the Plan period is estimated at
Vt207 million or $2.1 million. IRHO will be able
to provide sufficient seed nuts or seedlings to
establish 2,000i ha or coconut plantatiLons in 1985
and 3,500 ha b) 1989. The research performance
by IRHO has been commendable and the research output
has reached a stage when many findings could be
applied to field production in a meaningful manner.
-   Cacao and coffee research is conducted by IRCC, as
an ongoing project with a research station being
established., to undertake improvement of planting
material for coffee and cacao; from 1984 onwards,
it will also do research on pepper, vanilla, kava,
tea, other beverage crops and spices. The expen-
diture during the Plan period is estimated at
Vtl90 million or $2.0 million, funded by IRCC.
IRCC can draw on its research experience in other
parts of the world. Considering IRCC's expertise
and the availability of genetic mater:Lal and
technology, loc:ally applicable results can be
expected in the short term.  As a result, consid-
erable increases in yields from existing plantings
of cacao arnd coffee in Vanuatu could also be expected.
-   National root crop trials, under a UN)P/FAO-supported
regional root crop development program, will be
undertaken on Land made available by [RCC. The cost
is estimated al: Vtl.6 million or $16,000, with funding
by FAO/UNDP and New Zealand.
1/   See Appendix 2, page 3.



- 11 -
Cattle breeding station of VLDC is being improved
to supply better breeding stock to ranches and
smallholders, and to undertake research on pasture,
animal production, feed grains, and weed control.
This is an ongoing project with Australian
assistance, and further assistance is expected
involving Vt47.8 million or $493,000.
(ii)   Production
-   Coconut.  The First National Development Plan provides
a planting target of 2,650 ha, reaching 1,000 ha in
1985/86, to be achieved by smallholders on newly
cleared bush land, supported by European Development
Fund (EDF). Total smallholder coconut area is esti-
mated to be 45,000 ha with one-quarter of the area
being senescent.   Total cost over the Plan period
is estimated at Vt149 million or $1.5 million.
-   Cacao.  A cacao development project aiming at
improving existing cacao planting and establishing
new plantings has been proposed by the Government
and is being considered by aid donors. 3,000 ha of
new plantings are to be established over four years.
Existing smallholder plantings cover an estimated
3,700 ha. The cost of the project is estimated at
$1.5 million.
-   Coffee.  Development is proposed under a nucleus
estate-cum-smallholder concept for the sourthern
island of Tanna, with a 450 ha nucleus coffee estate
and 250 ha of smallholder coffee plots. Present
involvement of smallholders in coffee is insignifi-
cant. The cost of the scheme, to be implemented
over three years, is Vt212 million or $2.2 million.
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) is
reported to have expressed interest in funding the
program. EDF has allocated Vt5.2 million or $54,000
for the establishment of nurseries and production of
seedling.
-   Pepper.  A five-year development program includes
nurseries, demonstration plots and transport,
distribution of pepper cuttings to smaller islands.
One hundred ha of smallholder plantings are envisaged
under an EDF project with Vt6.0 million or $61,000
allocated, beginning in 1983.



- 12 -
(iii)   Processing
Copra.  Improved smoke dryers and conversion to
hot-air dryers; Vtl5 million ($155,000) is allocated
from EDF and other funds as of Janua:ry 1983.  The
total cost: of the program to build or improve 2,300
copra dryers over the years, 1982 to 1984, is estimated
at Vt68.6 mill-ion ($707,000).
Cacao.  Twenty-four community cacao fermentaries are
to be built and EDF has allocated Vt:3.2 mnillion ($33,000)
at present:, while total cost of the Project is estimated
at Vtl4.6 million ($150,000).
The Bank is formulating a regiLonal Technical Assistance Project on
strengthening agricultural research in eight South Pacific Developing
Member Countries including Vanuatu.  This Technical Assistance would be
complementary to the proposed Project and concerns the setting up of
research networks on coconut, crops associated with coconut and food crops
and strengthening of regional communication. Where necessary the regional
Technical Assistance woulc also help strengthen national agricultural
research.
32.         Details of thet planned capital expenditure according to the
First National Development. Plan and actual allocation as of January 1983
are shown in Appendix 2.  The Government is confident of obtaining suffli-
cient external assistance for production-oriented programas and does not
therefore see any need to avail itself of Bank financing for this purpose
under the Project.  Substantial funds are expected from external sources
for station-based research, crop establishment and irLproved processing
facilities, but not for improvement of essential support services for
smallholders required to establish a link between the research stations
and smallholders and to imtplement effectively various programs for their
benefit.
33.         The large number of relatively small, externally-assisted
projects and programs and their administrative requirements varying acco.rding
to the donors, severely stretch trained and experienced manpower available
to DALF. Current accounting procedures geared to a recurrent budget and a
capital budget, to which different sources contribute do not provide suffi-
cient management information f'or taking decisions on priorities or con-
tinuation of programs.  DPLF has been unable to introduce routine project
monitoring procedures, which are equally important for decision-making.
The proposed Project would. require a basic management: inf'ormation system
for DALF.



- 13-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objective and Scope
34.         The basic objective of the proposed Project is to improve
essential smallholder support services by: (i) adaptive localized
research; (ii) extension service including demonstration; (iii) agri-
cultural information service; and (iv) veterinary service together with
associated imnprovement in training and support facilities. The improve-
ment is necessary to reap the full benefit of the investments made
already in station-based research and to ensure satisfactory results
from various production-oriented agricultural programs financed by other
sources. Improved services are expected to yield the following benefits:
(i) Vanuatu's smallholders will be able to meet their cash requirements
to a large extent; (ii) the economy will benefit by the expansion and
diversification of agricultural production and exports, and by increased
foreign exchange earnings; and (iii) the Government will enlarge its
revenue base as a result of tax on increased exports.
35.         With a view to achieving the primary objective, the proposed
Project will provide for the following:
(i)   Experimental plots and demonstration farms located at
eight agricultural centers of DALF on seven major
islands with support services;
(ii)   Pre-service and in-service training, overseas fellowships
and study tours for the extension service; training of
young farmers at the demonstration farms and assistance
to the Tagabe National Agricultural School;
(iii)   Introduction of group extension efforts and cluster
plantings; support facilities for the extension
service in communication, transportation, housing
and storage;
(iv)   Assistance in the development of motivational campaigns
and information materials by the Information Office;
associated equipment and training fellowships;
(v)   A veterinary laboratory and training for laboratory
technicians;
(vi)   Facilities and services for a Project Office; and
(vii)   Ccnsuitant services for agricultural training, extension
service and agricultural information.



- 14 -
In addition, a technical assistance grant will be provided for institution-
building with the purpose of establishing a basic management information
system for DALF.
B. Detailed Features
1. Experimental Plots and
Demonstration Farms
36.         Experimental plots and demonstration farms will be established
at eight Agricultural Centers of DALF located on the islands of Espiritu
Santo, Malekula, Aoba, Pentecost, Ambrym, Vanualava, and Tanna (with two
stations). Their purpose is to strengthen the link between research and
its on-farm application by verifying the suitability of the research
findings under various conditions and examine their relevance to small-
holdings. The Government will acquire about five ha of land for each
center_/ and conduct experiments on practices suitable for the area and
crops as determined jointly by the research stations and DALF.
37.         The Government will also acquire about 7.5 ha near each center
for the development of demonstration farms.l/   Work on the demonstration
farms would begin with traditional smallholder operations (involving food
gardens, pigs and poultry) for subsistence food requirements, including
activities related to ceriemonies or social status. However, instead of
reversing food gardens to bus'h fallow, cash-earning crops would be growL
including coconut, cacao, coffee, pepper, and cattle rearing will also bie
undertaken.  The farm development plan would be worked out by the extension
officer at the agricultural center and submitted to the principal extensiion
officer for approval. Whesreas the gradual change from t'he food garden/bush
fallow rotation to a food garden/cash crop rotation imay take 20 years, this
process would be accelerated on the demonstration farms. Appropriate
records would be kept of labor and physical inputs, expenditure, output and
sales, and the extension 'service consultant will advise on the format of'
such records.  The demonstration farms would also feature improved housing
(with concrete floor, corrugated iron roof, water supply and sanitary
facilities, local material structure and wall panelling), on-farm transpiort
(horses, bullocks, wheelbarrows as appropriate), processing and storage
facilities (hot-air copra dryer, cacao dryer/fermentary, coffee pulpery).
In addition, each farm will have a bull of improved 'breed for use by small-
holders in the neighborhood.
38.         The activities on the experimental plot and the demonstration
farm will be supervised by a farm manager who will be an experienced field
extension officer. He will be provided with housing, office and storage!
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 8.



- 15 -
facilities and a motorcycle. Under his supervision, up to four young
farmer trainees will be recruited for on-the-job training and remunerated
on a daily basis. A replacement for the farm manager will be recruited
for the extension service from among the graduates of the Tagabe National
Agricultural School.
2.  Agricultural Training
39.         The most immediate requirement in the field of agricultural
training is upgrading of the qualifications of the extension service
cadre. A consultant for agricultural training and another for agricul-
tural extension will jointly determine the know-how requirements and will
design appropriate curricula for in-service training courses. The
proposed Project provides for the cost of travel and per diem for 50
participants in an annual in-service training course of one week duration.
Furthermore, five workshops with 10 participants each are included to
familiarize extension staff with teaching situations that would arise with
the introduction of group extension scheme (see para 45). The consultants
will also indicate the subjects to be selected for providing overseas
training at post-graduate or post-diploma level (such as general agri-
culture, specialization on livestock, plantation crops, annual crops,
extension service methodology, agricultural training). He will recommend
appropriate arrangements for training, and advise on the selection of
suitable candidates. The Project provides for seven one-year post-diploma
or post-graduate fellowships and 10 study tours each of four-month duration.
40.         Training for young farmers will be provided by the farm
manager at the demonstration farms of agricultural centers. The farmers
will be trained in the maintenance of appropriate farm records and
accounts as they familiarize themselves with improved agriculture
practices.  Their training will extend to at least one year.  If suitably
qualified, they can participate in a revised course at the Tagabe National
Agricultural School, or serve as assistants to field extension officers in
their home community to bridge the communication gap between the officer
from another island and his community or set up a pilot farm replicating
the development of the demonstration farm with the assistance of the
extension service.
41.         The course content of the Tagabe National Agricultural School
will be revised by the training consultant to match the requirements of
the trainees' future employment more closely. Since most of the required
extension service positions have been filled by graduates of the Tagabe
course, future demand for those with this qualification is limited to
replacement of staff. In addition to extension staff, agricultural
training is required for agricultural loan officers, agricultural
information officers, staff needed for future government nucleus estate-
cum-smallholder development schemes and teachers in primary and secondary
education following the introduction of compulsory agricultural instruction
by the Department of Education.



- 16 -
42.         The training consultant will advise on the development of
suitable training modules to suit various purposes, including such career
alternatives for extension service staff as teaching or agricultural
information preparation. Thile there is a need for a principal agri-
cultural training facili-y as in Tagabe, its utilization calls for a
thorough review particularly to determine the type and length of course,
proportion of practical work and classroom lectures, and medium of
instruction (alternating courses in French and English or holding courses
in Bislama). The proposed Project, besides consult-ant services, provides
for a new students' dorm:itory at the Tagabe National Agricultural School.
Audio-visual teaching aids and equipment and tools would be provided to
a training workshop for repair and maintenance of agricultural machinery.
The School will provide a building for the workshop which will be run by
a mechanic to be recruited under the Volunteer Service arrangements.
43.         Two overseas fel:Lowships for mass communica2ion of three-
year duration are provided for information officers to upgrade their
skills. The information consultant will advise the Government on the
selection of suitable candidates for overseas training.
44.         Provision is made for two laboratory technicians to attend
four-month training courses overseas to familiarize thermselves with new
laboratory equipment provided under the Project.
45.         DALF will set: up a system of bonding for DALF staff granted
fellowships to ensure that they return to Vanuatu after compl7tion of their
training and provide the service for which they are trained.!
3. Extension Service
46.         The organization and operating procedures of the extension
service will be reviewed and revised with the assistance! of an extension
service consultant in order t:o reduce cost of its operation and increase
its efficiency. As part of t:his effort, group exterLsion. approaches
(including cluster or blcck planting) considered most suitable for the
clan structure of rural settlements will be introduced cn a pilot basis.
These planting areas would be in   different locations each involving about
five ha. This concept will be suitably popularized with support from the
agricultural information office.  Guidelines for this approach will be
given by the extension consultant. Supervision of its implementation will
be the responsibility of the regional extension officer of the agricultural
centers.
47.          Supervision and two-way communication between the field
extension officer, his immediate supervisor and DALE' headquarters will be
considerably improved with the proposed radio-telephone links. Mobility
I/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 12.



- 17 -
of extension staff will be facilitated by four four-wheel-drive vehicles,
24 motorcycles and 13 dinghies with outboard motor. Housing for field
extension staff will be provided at 13 locations and for their assistants
(trainees from the demonstration farms) at ten locations. Office and
storage facilities will be added for the field extension staff at seven
locations. The locations will be decided by DALF based on, a review of
the deployment of extension staff to be undertaken by the extension
consultant.
4. Agricultural Information Office
48.         Guidance for increase and orientation of the information
service activities will be provided by an agricultural information
consultant. (Limitations in local expertise are dealt with in the
training component). The Project will further provide photographic,
audio and office equipment and for assistance by local talent in the
preparation of information materials on a contract basis. These inputs
are expected to strengthen the information service so that replacement
of expatriates becomes feasible and materials of greater appeal to
smallholders, extension officers and schools are produced frequently
and coordinated with other agencies involved.
5. Livestock Services
49.         The proposed Project will support the establishment of a new
veterinary laboratory with necessary installations, equipment and supplies.
Veterinary expertise is available from other sources (Australia) and
training for two laboratory technicians is provided under the training
component. With these inputs, the government's Livestock Services would
be in a position to undertake regular routine laboratory screening of
meat samples and provide credible certification, essential for the
maintenance, expansion and diversification of export market for the
country's beef. Livestock Services would be equipped with appropriate
laboratory facilities to support pest eradication programs, should such
problems arise as a result of greater density of cattle in the future.
6. Project Office
50.         Provision is made for office furniture and equipment and
incremental expenditure for the Project Office, to be used by the
management information expert for DALF proposed under the technical
assistance grant and two counterparts to be trained by him. The
counterparts would also be in charge of the Project Office, under the
Director of DALF, who is the Project Director.
7. Consultant Services-
51.         The Project provides for individual consultants in three
areas of specialization, viz agricultural training, extension service
1/ See Appendix 4 for Terms of Reference.



- 18 -
and agricultural information.  Their services will be required for peri'ods
of about three months in a year for three or four years during Project
implementation and will be rescruited on a return basis. During the
initial period of their assignment, all of them are expected to be in
the field together so that they may assist each other in the formulation
of proposals and recommendations to the Government in a coordinated manner.
52.         The agricultural training consultant will be available for
nine man-months spread over l:hree years. During his first term in the
first year of the Project, he will determine the know-how requirement for
various jobs, based on job descriptions worked out jointly with the
extension service advisor and government agencies.  He will evaluate the
know-how of the existing extension service cadre and prepare curricula
for in-service training courses for the next three years. He will also
advise the Government on the selection of participants for overseas training,
indicate areas where training is required urgently and propose suitable
arrangements for such training, including upgrading of ioreign language
skills of the participants. IHe will prepare an outline of future courses
to be held at the Tagabe National Agricultural School, with a view to
reducing training cost and more closely matching trainirng with job
requirement. He will also develop guidelines for young farmer training
on the demonstration farms.
53.         During his second term, the consultant will review imple-
mentation of his initial reccmmendations, prepare curricula for appropriate
course contents at the Tagabe National Agricultural School and develop an
outline of future in-service training courses. He will continue his
advice on selection and arrangements for overseas training.  During his
third term, he will further refine the Tagabe course curricula and training
arrangements.
54.         The extension service consultant will be engaged for 12
man-months, consisting of four terms of about three months each. During
his first term, he will review the present organization and operational
procedures of the extension service, identify bottlenecks that hinder a
cost-effective and achievement-oriented operation and make appropriate
recommendations to the Government. He will coordinate his recommendations
with the other consultants under the Project. Special attention will be
given to deployment of the extension force keeping in view the smallholders'
willingness to adopt changes in agricultural practices, and to strengthening
of supervision and guidance of the extension force. Guidelines will be
prepared for the introduction of group extension efforts and cluster or
block planting on a pilot basis. During his subsequent three periods of
assignment, he will further refine and revise earlier recommendations, als
required, and assist in their implementation.
55.         The agricultural information consultant will be provided for
three periods of about three man-months each. During his first term, he
will, in cooperation with the consultant for extension service and the



- 19 -
training expert, determine information requirements and priorities and
define the most effective media approach (print, radio or personal
contact). He will advise the Government on the selection of the first
candidate for overseas training (for 3 years) in mass communication
and on appropriate arrangements for such training. He will prepare
detailed proposals on maintaining the information service with the
assistance of local talent on a contract basis, during the absence of
the trainees.
56.         During his second term, the consultant will train local
staff in the utilization of equipment supplied under the Project, assist
in the preparation of information materials and in the selection of
another candidate for overseas training. The consultant will also
prepare guidelines for the flow of information to the information office
and coordination of information and extension activities. He will
propose a program of major media campaigns to be undertaken during Project
implementation. His third assignment will coincide with the return of
the first trainee from abroad and serve the purpose of guiding the trainee
in the practical application of the know-how obtained.
C. Project Cost
57.         The total cost of the Project including physical contingency,
price escalation and financial charges during Project implementation is
estimated at $3.875 million equivalent, of which $2.5 million is the
direct and indirect foreign exchange cost and $1.375 million equivalent,
local currency cost.  A summary of cost estimates is presented in Table 1
and cost details in Appendix 3.
Table 1:  Summary of Project Costa/
($'000)
Foreign      Local       Total
Exchange     Cost        Cost
I.  Experiments and Demonstration          320          407         727
II.  Training                               420          130         550
III.  Extension Service                      590          308         898
IV.  Agric. Information Service              27           43          70
V.  Livestock Service                      175           54         229
VI.  Project Office                            8          50          58
VII.  Consultant Services                     275            1        276
Base Cost                            1,815          993       2,808
Physical Contingency                   125           74         199
Price Escalation                       460          308         768
Financial Charges during Project
Implementation                       100           -          100
Total Cost                           2,500        1,375       3,875
T.A. for Managemnet Information
System Advisorb/                     265           -          265
a/ Without duties and taxes, since none are levied on imports under
development assistance.
b/ Local cost fNr the consultant is included in the cost of Project Office
- in item vi a ove.



- 20 -
58.         The cost estimates are based on February 1983 prices for
machinery, equipment, civil works and services. Appropriate physical
contingen'ies up to 15 per cent have been included.  Price escalation
has been computed at projected inflation rates varying from 8 per cent
to 6 per cent for local currency expenditure and from 7.5 per cent to
6 per cent for the foreign exchange cost for the period, 1984-1988.
D. Financing Plan
59.         The Government has requested Bank assistance to finance part
of the foreign exchange cost and part of the local currency cost under
co-financing arrangements with IDA. It is proposed that a loan of $1.1
million be provided from the Bank's Special Funds resources. Of the
proposed loan, 73 per cent would be for foreign cost financing and 27
per cent for local currency expenditure.  IDA's contribution would be
$2.0 million, with $1.6 million for foreign exchangie cost and $0.4 million
for local currency cost. The rest of local currency cost of $675,000
equivalent and the foreign exchange cost of $100,000 representing financial
charges during Project implemaentation would be financed by the Government
(see Table 2). The Bank and IDA would finance 80 per cient of the total
Project cost, 62 per cent: of which would be foreign cost and 18 per cent,
local cost. IDA has agreed t:o co-finance the propoised Project jointly,
except for consultant services which would be obtained iexclusively from
Bank member countries and therefore financed by the Bank.
Table 2:: Financing Plan
($'000)
Source         Foreign       LocaL        Total
Components          of Funds        Exchange      Cost          Cost
Consultants              Bank              275          -            275
Other Components         Bank              525          300          825
Subtotal (Bank)                   800          300        1,100
Other Components          IDA            1,600          400        2,000
Other Components         Government        l0oe!        675          775
Total                           2,500        1,375        3,875
T.A. Grant               Bank              265          -            265
a/ Financial charges during Project implementation.



- 21 -
60.         The Borrower would be the Republic of Vanuatu.  It is also
proposed that the Bank provide a technical assistance grant of $265,000
to the Government of Vanuatu to establish an overall Project management
information system and improve monitoring capability of DALF (see
paras 63-65).
E. Environmental Effects
61.         Under current agricultural practices, increases in population
and declining land resources would accelerate the rotation of food gardens
and bush fallow, exposing land more frequently to erosion risks. The
Project would gradually replace the wasteful subsistence rotation by
improved agricultural practices and would encourage establishment of
perennial plantation crops and pasture as permanent soil cover, leading
to better land-use and erosion control. Fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals would be used only for crop establishmenit in small quantities
under the supervision of the extension service and no environmental
hazards are likely to result from their use.
F. Energy Impact
62.         The major source of fuel to be used as a result of the Project
would be crop byproducts such as coconut husks and shells for drying the
produce. These are available in plenty. Minor quantities of imported
fuel would be required for the operation of additional motor vehicles.
G. Advisory Technical Assistance
63.         Since Independence, the Government has been successful in
attracting external assistance from bilateral as well as multi-lateral
sources, much of it for agricultural activities. The entire government
investment in agriculture originates from external assistance. A
sizeable portion of recurrent budgetary expenditure is contributed by
the former Condominium powers (U.K. and France). The qualified manpower
available is stretched and its task is further complicated by various
administrative and accounting requirements, differing from donor to donor.
While concentrating its efforts on project implementation, DALF was not
in a position to build sufficient capability for project monitoring and
evaluation, including consolidation of accounts for cost determination.
Thus little information is available to pinpoint shortcomings of ongoing
projects or programs.
64.         The Government has requested Bank technical assistance on
a grant basis to provide consultant services to:
(i)   design and implement a management information system
for DALF, including cost accounting and benefit
monitoring; and
(ii)   train local counterparts in the application of such a
system for all agricultural projects.



- 22 -
65.          The advisor, whose Terms of Reference are detailed in
Appendix 5, will be recruitecl as an individual consultarnt for 30 man-
months, a period deemed necessary in view of the state of cost accounting
in the country and initial qualifications of counterpart: officials. The
total foreign currency cost of technical assistance is estimated at
$265,000.  Local currency expenditure is covered under cost of the Project
Office, which the consultant is expected to share with his counterparts.
Institutional strengthening cf DALF has been given high priority by the
Government and neither local nor external funds are likely to be available
for this purpose from other sources.



- 23 -
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. The '-xecuting Agency
6A.         The Executing Agency for the proposed Project will be the
Department for Agriculture, Livestock and Foresjuy (DALF) under the
Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources (MLNR).-   DALF, which was
established in 1952 as a Condominium agency did not get full support
of the Condominium powers (U.K. and France), who gave first preference
to their own organizations. Since March 1981, there has been a 35 per
cent increase in staff of DALF and in October 1982, 128 staff were
employed, of which 112 held budgetary positions, the rest being mostly
short-term volunteers.
67.         The Director of DALF reports to the Minister of Lands and
Natural Resources and supervises three sub-departments of Livestock
Services, Agricultural Services and Forestry Services respectively.
Agricultural Services comprise the Divisions for Training, Extension,
Quarantine Inspection and Agricultural Loans. Livestock Services carry
out functions similar to Agricultural Services, but without further
organizational subdivision. The Agricultural Information Officer reports
directly to the Minister.- Since the Director of DALF as Project
Director is responsible for overall Project implementation, it is con-
sidered necessary that the Information Officer should replyt directly to
the Director of DALF on all activities under the Project.-/  In practice,
a number of informal working arrangements appear to supersede the given
organizational structure, particularly at the field level. It appears
desirable to reflect actual working arrangements in the organizational
structure. Accordingly, the terms of reference of the consultant for
the management information system include this aspect.
B. Accounts and Audits
68.         DALF's accounting procedures are maintained in accordance
with the Government's budgetary and accounting practices, whereby separate
budgets are maintained for recurrent and capital expenditure. The
recurrent budget is funded by the Government's internal revenue and by
contributions by the United Kingdom and France. The capital budget
comprises all other external contributions of a recurrent or capital
nature, including capital aid by the former Condominium powers. While
these buigetary arrangements were found convenient for the purpose of
maximizing external contributions, they have led to complicated accounting
procedures. As a result, identification of expenditure by cost categories
or cost -enters has become difficult.
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 1.
2/   See Appendix 6.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 2.



- 24 -
69.         DALF's accounts are annually audited by a government auditor.
The Government will continue to have DALF's accounts audited annually,
including separate accourits i-or the Project. DALF will furnish to the
Bank certified copies of the audited accounts not later than six months
after the end of each related fiscal year. DALF will fuirnish to the
Bank such information on its accolnts and audits thereon as the Bank
shall request from time to time.-
C.  Procurement and ConsLltancy Services
1. Procurement
70.         Procurement cf goods and services for the Project will be
carried out in accordance wit.h the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement.2/
Contract values will be too small to warrant International Competitive
Bidding and all contracts for machinery and equipment wiLll be awarded
under international shopping with the exception of off-the-shelf items
with contract values below $10,000.  Civil works are considered to be
too small and scattered in different locations of the archipelago, to b,e
of interest to international competitors.  The civil works will be awarded
under loca; competitive bidding on terms and conditi'ons satisfactory to
the Bank.-   Some incremental operating cost and agricultural inputs
originating from DALF will be met from force account (see Appendix 7).-'
2. Consultant Services
71.         The consultant will be engaged on an individual basis.  The
selection and engagement of consultants to be financed under the proposed
loan and under the technical assistance grant wit}, be in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.-
D. Project Implementation
1. Project Office and Project
Coordinating Committee
72.         DALF will be responsible for the implementation of the Project.
A special Project Office (PO) will be established and suitably staffed
within the Office of the Director of DALF. The Director of DALF will
concurrently be the Project Director and be responsible for the overall
implementation of the Project. A Project Manager will be appointed by
1/   Loan Agreement, Article IV, Section 4.06.
2/   Loan Agreement, Schediule 4, para 2.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, para 3.
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, para 4.
5/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, para 2.



- 25 -
the Project Director to undertake day-to-da',a management of the Project.-"
The Project Manager shall work under the general control and guidance of
the Project Director and report to him. The P0 will be responsible for:
(i) all , --urement; (ii) engagement of consultants; (iii) arrangements
for overseas fellowships; (iv) maintenance of separate books of accounts;
(v) monitoring Project implementation; and (vi) pre ration of quarterly
Project reports in a format acceptable to tHe Bank.-'  The Project Manager
will be assiysed by a full-time accountant and secretarial staff of DALF
as required.-
73.         A Project Coordinating Committee (PS7) will be set up to
resolve matters that cannot be settled by DALF.-   It will be chaired by
the First Secretary of MNLR, and will have as permanent members the First
Secretary of MFCIT and the Director of the National Planning and Statistics
Office (NPSO), and the Project Manager.
2. Land, Staff and Radio Frequency
74.         For implementation of the experimentation plots and demon-
stration farms, the Government has given an assurance that necessary land
will be acquired and made avai,lable prior to the year for which their
implementation is scheduled.4   Experienced field extension officers, one
for each agricultural center with experimental plots and demonstration
farms, will be assigned by DALF as farm managers. Graduates from the
Tagabe National Agriculturg} School will be recruited to replace the
extension field personnel.-
75.         The staff strength of the Agricultural Information Office
will be increased by two local staff, to ensure continued operation of
the service during extended overseas training for two gOficials and to
increase the strength on completion of their training.-   The Gove r)ent
will make available to DALF a suitable short-wave radio frequency._
3. Implementation Schedule
76.         The Project will be implemented over a five-year period
(1984-1988) according to a schedule given Ln Appendix 8. The provision
of consultant services is phased over three or four years (for three
months every year) for all three specializations to ensure continuity
of recommendations, implementation and revisions. The establishment of
the experimentation plots and demonstration farms is phased over the
five-year period, with the completion of the last farm's development
extending to the post-implementation period. In-service as well as
I/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 2.
2/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 3.
3/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 4.
4/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 8.
5/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 6.
6/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 7.
7/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 10.



- 26 -
overseas training will be an ongoing feature over the five-year period.
The civil works and equipment of the Tagabe National Agricultural School
are phased after the initial field stay of the training consultant to
reflect his views while making these investments.  Radio telephone
equipment is scheduled for the second year; this would facilitate
improved supervision and flow of information necessary for an efficient
extension service. The proposed implementation schedule has been prepared
in consultation with DALF and is considered realistic.
4. Operation and Maintenance
77.         The Government has assured the Bank that it will provide
necessary funds, manpower, land and facilities required to ensure the
implementation, continued operation and maintenance of al.l Project
facilities.l/
1/   Loan Agreement, Schedule 6, para 5; Article IV, Section 4.02.



- 27 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
78.         The proposed Project will provide assistance to the
Government's efforts to accelerate and diversify smallholders' agri-
cultural development, by consolidating and improving key agricultural
support services and associated facilities such as localized research,
demonstration, agricultural extension, agricultural information service
and veterinary services. As a result, the existing shortcomings in
these fields are expected to be alleviated or eliminated.
79.         The establishment of experimental plots at agricultural
centers and application of research findings on demonstration farms
and smallholdings will provide a necessary link between station-based
research and on-farm application. The demonstration farms, operated
by local young farmers as trainees, will popularize improved agricultural
practices in the context of a simulated smallholder operation rather than
as separate enterprises. Smallholders can easily visit the demonstration
farms located at administration and communication centers in the island.
The training of local young farmers is expected to result in an increasing
replication of demonstration farm practices on the islands.
80.         As a result of various inputs under the Project, extension
service staff's capability will be greatly improved. The staff will have
increased mobility and better communication, essential for improved
guidance and supervision. The extension service will be supported by an
upgraded information service. The consultants are expected to contribute
to cost effectiveness and operational efficiency of the services. Local
young farmers, trained at the demonstration farms will play a supportive
role in overcoming the communication gap between smallholders and extension
officers assigned to communities, to which they do not belong. Pre-service
training will be revised and will more closely match job requirement,
reduce cost of training and open perspectives for career alternatives.
81.         The proposed Project would serve to maximize benefits from
investments in station-based research and production-oriented programs
financed by sources other than the Bank. The Government is confident of
attracting sufficient external funds for these purposes also in the future.
Since many programs are related to export crops, the Project would con-
tribute to an increase in foreign exchange earnings and government revenue
by way of export taxation. All Project inputs will ultimately serve the
smallholders, though it is difficult to determine at present the pace and
direction of smallholder development. It has to be a long-term process,
probably involving at least one generation of smallholders. In view of
the nature of the development envisaged, it would be inappropriate to
undertake a quantification of benefits and an economic evaluation of the



- 28 -
Project; nor can a financial evaluation of the individual smallholder be
undertaken, since the Project is not directly involved in on-farm
production and it is not known to what extent smallholders will get
involved in one cash enterprise or another. Though individual enter-
prises can easily be shown as being financially beneficial to the
smallholder, it is not known to what extent social preferences will
limit his involvement.
82.         An important contribution of the Project will be institutional
support for strengthening management and operation of smallholder support
services.  The Project will provide consultant services where local
experience is not available For Project implementation, in particular
for training, extension service and agricultural information service. In
addition, a technical assistance grant will be provided for institution-
building to establish a basic management information system for DALF
covering cost accounting and benefit monitoring for all ongoing activities
as well as training count:erparts.
B. Project Risks
83.         The achievement of the Project's ultimate objective viz.,
the development of smallholders, depends on: (i) availability of
sufficient external assistance and local funds for production-oriented
on-farm programs; and (ii) on a sufficient number of smallholders being
motivated for change. The Government has shown considerable resourcefu:Lness
in attracting external finance and in meeting changing budgetary require-
ments and is expected to be able to raise the required funds in the future.
With the focus of agricultural extension on the promotion of export crops
the Project is likely to have a significant impact on increased government
revenue. With regard to smallholder participation, it has been found that
on islands with higher population relative to land suitable for agriculture,
and on those without any or limited land reserves, the response to proposed
change has been increasing. Such islands have about one-third of the
country's population, and in addition pockets under similar conditions are
found on other islands also. Moreover, the younger generation, setting
up households, shows a higher demand for consumer goods and services and it
is est mated that about 1,000 new rural households will be established every
year.T    Overall, the population growth of 3.2 per cent per annum will also
influence the willingness to change. It can, therefore, be reasonably ex-
pected that sufficient smallholder involvement in improved agricultural
practices can be motivated by the Project. The risk of shortcomings in the
implementation capability has been addressed by provision of consultants
and technical assistance for institution-building.
1/   Appendix 1, page 4, age bracket 20-24 years.



- 29 -
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
84.         The proposed Project which has been accorded high priority
by the Government will assist the Government in improving support
services to smallholders, and motivate them to change their traditional
subsistence rotation of food gardens and bush fallow in favor of more
productive practices, introducing and improving cash enterprises, while
maintaining subsistence food gardening. The Project will provide for:
(i) localized research including experimentation plots and demonstration
farms to test the validity of station-research findings under varying
edaphic conditions and for their suitability for introduction into
smallholders' operations; (ii) upgraded training by adjusting the cur-
riculum of the Tagabe National Agricultural School, appropriate in-service
training, overseas fellowships and study tours, and training for young
farmers on demonstration farms; (iii) more effectivze extension service
by introduction of group extension approaches and provision of communica-
tion and transportation equipment as well as housing, office and storage
facilities; (iv) better agricultural information by strengthening the
Information Office in staff and equipment; (v) veterinary laboratory
inspection to safeguard export markets for beef and control pests;
(vi) equipping and staffing a Project Office; and (vii) consultant services
to advise on suitable changes in the operation of training, extension and
information services. In addition, a technical assistance grant for DALF
to establish a basic management information system and train counterparts
for its application will be provided.
85.         The Project would serve to maximize benefits from sizeable
investment on research and programs for smallholder production financed or
to be financed from other external sources. Ultimately, the benefits
would accrue to smallholders who are likely to be motivated to adopt new
practices. Since most of the production-oriented programs are related to
oxport crops, the Project would contribute to an increase in foreign
exchange earnings and government revenue (as a result of export tax).
Quantification of these benefits is found inappropriate because of the
absence of direct on-farm production and in view of limited knowledge on
the pace and direction of smallholder development.
86.         The total cost of the Project is estimated at $3.875 million
equivalent, with a total foreign exchange cost of $2.5 million and local
currency cost of $1.375 million equivalent. The Bank would provide
$1.1 million and IDA $2.0 million. The total loan amount of $3.1 million
equivalent represents 80 per cent of total Project cost, covering all
direct and indirect foreign exchange cost!/ and part (51 per cent) of
the local currency cost. Consultants will be recruited from the Bank's
member countries only and therefore be financed by the Banl- exclusively.
I/   Except financial charges during Project implementation.



- 30 -
All other goods and servi'ces would be jointly co-financed by the Bank
and IDA. The Bank would finance $800,000 equivalent in foreign exchange
cost and $300,000 equivalent in local currency cost.  In addition, the
Bank would provide for a teclnical assistance grant of S3265,000 for
setting up a management information system for DALF. The Borrower will
be the Republic of Vanuat:u and DALF will be the Executing Agency. The
organizational and institutional arrangements for the Project are
satisfactory.
87.         In addition to thLe standard provisions and requirements
applicable to the proposed lcan and embodied in the Bank.'s loan documents,
the Government has given the following specific assurances:
(i)   land for experimentation plots, demonstration farms
and the proposed block or cluster planting will be
acquired or made available prior to the financial
year in which these facilities are scheduled for
implementation;
(ii)   the Government will provide suitably qualified staff
for the Project Office, will replace the field
extension workers (eight) reassigned as demonstration
farm managers, will increase the staff of the
Agricultural Information Office by two professionals
and will recruit trainees for each demonstration
farm; and
(iii)   the Government: wiLl make available to DALF a suitable
short-wave raclio frequency.



- 31 -
APPENDIXES
Appendix                                                       Page
1       Statistical Information on Smallholders             32
2       External Assistance for Agriculture                 35
3       Detailed Project Cost                               38
4       Terms of Reference for Project
Implementation Consultants                        42
5       Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance Consultant                             45
6       Organization Structure of the Department
of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry            46
7       Allocation of Loan Proceed by Method
of Procurement                                    47
8       Implementation Schedule                              49



3 2-
Appendix 1
Page 1
Statistical Information on Smallholders
1.        Available information on smallholders by island groups is
giY- nin Table 1 of this Appendix.  Overall, only about 50 per cent
of the agriculturally suitable land is presently utilized, with average
size of smallholdings shown as 10.4 ha, of which 8 ha are in the sub-
sistence food garden-bush fallow rotation and 2.4 ha planted to coconut,
sometimes undercropped with cacao or to a minor extent with coffee.  Land
availability and size of smallholdings vary considerably from island to
island. The smallest average is shown for Efate, where employment on
plantations and outside agriculture is an important factor. On the
Shepherd Islands, the average size is 4.2 ha, with no further land reserves
available. A similar situation exists on the group of Paama/Lopevi with
6.2 ha on average. Relatively high population density is also indicatedl
for Pentecost (9.4 ha), Tanna (9.1 ha) and Pmeityum/Futuna/Aniwa (9.8 ha).
Averages of about 20 ha or above are shown for Maewo, Santo/Malo, Epi/Lamen
and the Banks. Variations in the size of smallholdings are mainly deter-
mined by the duration of the subsistence rotation. The area of land
reserves shown can either indicate useable land or land disputed under
custom ownership and, therefore, not used.
2.        The greatest pressure to intensify agricultural practices
would appear to exist on the Shepherd Islands, on Paama, Lopevi, Pentecost,
Tanna, and Aneityum/Futuna/An:iwa with small average sizes of holdings and/or
little available land reserves. These islands are noted for most of the
migration to other islands for casual plantation work.  About 6,880 rural
households (in 1979)1/ or 36 per cent are fotnd on these islands.  While
it would appear reasonable to concentrate extension efforts on these islands
it must be noted that the averages shown for the other islands contain a
number of households under equal pressure to intensify their farming
practices.
3.        Table 2 of this Appendix shows the age structure of the population
of Vanuatu as given by the 1979 population census.  10,0C)0 persons are shown
in the age bracket 20-24, likely to set up their own households. At a
population growth rate of 3.2 per cent per annum, there would be 11,502
persons in this bracket in 1983. The rural population within this age
bracket is estimated at 82 per cent or about 9,500. The five-year age
bracket would lead to an estimate of about one thousand new rural households
established annually. With fcur children to raise orin average this segment
of population is considered another likely group responsive to suggestions
to intensify agriculture.
-  At 3.2 per cent population growth the figure would be 7,800 households
in 1983.
(Reference in text: page 2, paras 3 and 4)



Table 1: Population. Number of Houseralds, Land
Availability and Utilization
Area Per Rural Househole (ha)
pW                                                            Area Suit-                                 Smallholder                                                    Land Reserve
(D                                                    Land    able for       Used for      Reserve of   Subsistence  Smallholder                                         As Percent    Populatior
Rural         Rural    Total   Agricultup5  Agriculture  Agric. Land   Rotation           Caah Crac      Sub-    Cash             Land      of Agric.        Growth
j      Island Group       Population-/ Households (lOOha)    (lOha)-         (100ha)       (100ha)       (IOOha)V'    (100ha)  i/ eistence  Crop  total  Reserve  Suitable Land    1 p.a.
(D
0      Torres                   305            66        120         99              8           91              7             1       10.6      1.5   12.1   137.9           92             4.0
anoks                  3.210           597       762        218            114           104            92            22        15.4     3.7   19.1    17.4           46              2.9
' M Oae                       1,845           367        300        125             92           33             74           18        20.2      4.9   25.1      9.0          26             3.8
n-t    Santo/Malo            13.735         2,632      4,200      1,680           678         1.002            410           67        15.6      2.6   18.2    38.1           60             3.5
Aoba                   7,691         1,602       400        215            162            53            87            75         5.4     4.7   10.1       3.3         25              2.3
Cl     Pentecost              9,316         1,915        500        191            180           11            150            30        7.8      1.6    9.4      0.6           6             '.8
Ambrym                 6,260         1,170       665        218            133            85            87            46         7.4      3.9   11.3      7.3         39              3.4
Malakula              15.184         3,184     2,100        808            267           541            169           62         5.3      1.9    7.2    17.0          67              2.7
t3~3    Pasma/Lopevi            2,237           534        63         33             33             0            26             7         4.9      1.3    6.2        0          0              1.2
(V (D V
Epi/Lamen              2,599           540       455        195            128            67            90            38        16.7     7.0   23.7    12.4           34              2.3
Shepherds              4,421         1.248        85         52             52             0            35            17         2.8      1.4    4.2        0          0              1.8
aCt2       Efate                  9,811          1,700       985        570            112          458             32            20         1.9     1.2    3.1    26.9           80             4.6
M gj       Errosango                936           200        900        206             17          189             15             2        7.5      1.0    8.5    94.5           92             3.9
(j@    Tanna                 15.491         2,968        572        313            270           43            229            41         7.7     1.4    9.1       1.5         14             3.1
C.  Co     Aneityum/Futuna
Aniwa                  1,166           215        179        22             21             1            15             9         5.6     4.2    9.8       0.5           5             2.9
4>     Total                 94!207        18,939    1',276       5,075          2,267        2,678          1,515           455        8.0      2.4   10.4    14.1           53             3.2
a/ 1979 Population Census.
b/ Quantin. ORSTOM (1972-78). includes classification (i) no and alight limitations in utilization end (ii) moderate limitations, each about 50'.
Ci Comprises:  intensive subsistence gardening. itinerant gardening, wooded fallovs with dispereed su0sistence gardening.
d/ Cqmprises:  indigenous coconut planting, mixed dense planting, European type coconut planting.
11)
p; Q
t-.i in
rI D
'tIE
3:1f



Appendix 1
Page 3
Table 2: Age of Vanuatu's Population in 1979
Age group
in years             Males              Females            Total
0 -  4              10,025               9,121            19,146
5 -  9               8,989               7,895            16,884
10 - 14               7,661               6,772            14,433
15 - 19               6,322               5,837            12,1:59
20 - 24               5,201               4,940            10,:l41
25 - 29               4,236               4,086             8,322
30 - 34               3,294               3,149             6,443
35 - 39               3,195               2,724             5,919
40 - 44               2,308               1,976             4,284
45 - 49               2,129               1,587             3,716
50 - 54               1,421               1,108             2,529
55 - 59               1,351                 991             2,342
60 - 64                 995                 697             1,692
over 65               1,947               1,294             3,241
T o t a 1            59,074              52,177           111,251
(Reference in text:   pacge 28, para 83)



Appendix 2
Page 1
External Assistance for Agriculture
1.   The First National Development Plan   1982-1986 indicated a
total capital expenditure program for the Agricultural Sector
amounting Vt 3,244 million, most of it to be funded from
external sources.
2.   Table I shows details of projected capital expenditure for
agriculture. Ongoing projects are listed in Table 2 together
with amounts allocated and donors. By sub-sector the funded
projects are set out as follows:
Million Vatu
General Agriculture                  46.6
Livestock                            40.7
Agricultural Support                 27.6
Research                            396.9
Total          512.0
These projects amount to Vt 512 million, of which research is
the major item. The amount allocated as of 31 January 1983,
start of the second year of the plan period, is equivalent to
16 per cent of the total planned capital expenditure over
five years.
(Reference in text: page 12, para 32)



- 36 -
Appendix 2
Page 2
Table 1: First National Development Plan,
OultlirLe Capital Expenditure
Programme,  1982-1986 a
(VT'000)
Project                    1982      1983     1984      1985      1986     Total
Coconut Development            44,268   30,935   37,359   36,837        -       149,399
Cocoa and Coffe Research
Station                     63,318   36,025   30,135  -30,135   30,135   1893,748
Development of Cattle
Breeding Station
(VLD Ltd)                   33,697   14,147      -         -         -       47,844
Oil Crops' Research Station  41,336   41,336   41,500   41,500   41,500   207,172
Brucellosis Eradication         1,720       370       210     -         -         2,300
Extension Staff Housing        26,600      -         -        -         -        26,600
Cocoa Fermentaries             14,581      -         -        -         -        14,581
Pepper Development             12,637      -         -        -         -        12,637
Coffee Development (Tanna)   13,754        -         -        -         -        13,754
Smallholder Cattle
Development                 36,815      -        -         -         -        36,815
Various Small Projects         30,000   30,000   30,000   30,000   30,000   150,000
Equipment (Middle Bush
Tanna)                       4,340      -        -         -         -         4,340
Bush Clearing Units and
Additional Equipment        41,213   51,608   25,804       -         -       118,625
Big Bay Rice                     -       17,000   34,000   51,000   68,000   170,000
C.D.C.WCocoa (Malekula)          -      222,000  278,000  371,000  489,000 1,360,000
C.D .CY5Cattle (Espiritu
Santo)                        -      34,000   68,000  102,000  136,000   340,000
C.D.C.-Coffee (Tanna)            -       21,000   64,000  127,400       -       212,400
Cocoa Development              32,004   24,905   25,253   18,210        -       100,372
Root Crops Development            900       670      -        -         -         1,570
Copra Drier                    17,050   18,750   27,500    5,250        -        68,550
Cocoa, Coffee and Coconut
Demonstration Plots         1[,000      -        -         -         -        11,000
ORSTOM Mapping                  6,000      -         -        -         -         6,000
TOTAL                    431,233  542,746  661,761  813,33:2  794,635 3,243,707
-/ For many projects, no firm agreement yet reached with donor.
b/ CDC = Commonwealth Development Corporation.



- 37 -
Appendix 2
Page 3
Table 2: Ongoing Externally Assisted Project for Agriculture,
Aid Donor and Allocations as of January 1983
(in Vatu'000)
Name of Project                              Donor         Amount Allocated
I. Research
IRHO -/                                            France            207,172
IRCC -                                             France             189,748
II. Agriculture
Agriculture Equipment                              ADAB                 7,137
Cattle Under Coconuts                              SPC                    200
Phytosanitary Projects                             ADAB                 2,160
Equipment for Dryland Rice, Tanna                  ADAB                   600
Lounansounon Vila Beehives                         ADAB                   340
Tagabe School Extension                            ODA                 13,500
Refund and Purchase of Pasture Seed                ODA                    375
Subsidies - Bush Clearing Cattle                   ODA                    400
Phytosanitary Services                             ADAB                 2,314
Phytosanitary Airport Control                      ADAB                 1,160
Cocoa, Coffee and Coconut Demonstration Plot       ADAB                 4,211
Vila Show Ground Facilities                        ADAB                   990
Santo Cattle Holding Ground                        ODA                    319
Giant African Snail Control                        NZ                     700
Upgrading of Agricultural Training Center          NZ                     750
Collection and Establishment - Major Root Crops  NZ                       351
Plantation Advisers                                ADAB                 2,230
Equipment Tagabe Agriculture School                Canada                 550
Copra Improvement Project                          EDF/Stabex          15,000
Coffee Development                                  EDF                 5,242
Community Farm Roads                               EDF                  1,760
Agricultural Tools Primary Schools                 EDF                  1,700
Pepper Development                                 EDF                  5,949
Community Run Estates Lolovenue                    EDF                  1,700
Community/Village Cocoa Fermentary                 EDF                 3,180
Santo Agricultural Station Buildings               ODA                   649
Luganville Produce Inspection Depot                France                 510
Agricultural Sub-Stations Equipment                NZ                    412
Agricultural Information Office                    ADAB                2,275
Brucellosis Eradication                            ODA                 4,800
Cattle Breeding Station VLD                        ADAB               33,700
TOTAL                                                                     511,984
a/ Based on First National Development Plan Projections.
(Reference in text: page 10, para 30)



- 38 -
Appendix 3
DFrf:: Li;.    _  C-. r                             Page   L
Fo.eigo             T ocol   I
Unit Cost                 Cost       Cost      (orLt    FE
Vt        Quanitty  Vt '000   Vt '00O  Vt'O00    I
1   Civil WorkL
A.  Experi- rati.>  * Dvnittation
Land Acquisiior. aord S,.rve,                                         6,000thb   100 h&         -         600       600    0
Dewsostrottoc (,arr,roi.s             30 sqa, Vt  5,0001sq&         i50.000         16          720    1,680    2,400   30
Farm Kia-.ters' ,_s,s                 65 *&,4. Vt 37.000/sq.r    2.400,000          8        1,520     7,680    19,200   60
Farr Nanae-' t ffice-o--Storei;  60 sq., Vt 33,333/sqn    2.000,000                 8        11,600    6,400    16,000   60
Processinfl  F-(Iities                                              200,000        16        :,1440     1,760     3,200   45
SoOtotaa                                                                         21,280   18,120   41,400
D. Training
Doraieoru                                                            26,000       3460 sqa    1,618     3.742     9,3bO    60
C.  E-tension
Field Assist=.io' j-ses 65 sqrm at Vt 35,076                     2.280,000         13       17,78'.   11,856   29.6'.0   60
Offlc.e  f-, F.,                                                    544.000          7        2,285     1.5:3    3,60d   60
St.res r ,,  -A>                                                   240.000          7         1_008       b?2     1,6b0   60
Oo.ses for  ss.st,ncs       3u sqm at Vt  5,000                     150,000         10      _  450    1,050    1,500   30
S,t:ort i                                                                        21.527    15,101   36,628
D.  Livestock  ae-icc 
VeLerrinr  Lab.r:tory vith Fittings                                  26.736       288 sq.   ',620    3,080        7,700   60
Tot.! Civil tWorks                                                               Ji.045   40.043   95.W8
Jl   Equipment i flach,:o-r,
A.  Experi_tntazo- r   Dd0nstratioo
Psaps/Hydrrs - Carction to PLain Water Supply                        50,000         16          720        sO       ftO   90
Pipiarg Ana Taps                                                     15.000         a           108        12       120   90
I*andLools Set.                                                      25,000         8           10        20       200   90
Calcuiaor ani A&ceouit Books foz  emosstration Fars                 30,000         8           ISO        60       240   75
C&IcOlcoT aad Acount kooks for Farm Mlatuger                         25.000         a           150        50       200   75
Wbeelbarrovs                                                          5.000        16            64        16        80   80
Furniture Douonstration Farm Horuses                                  4 ,000       16            66       778       864   10
Fornit.re Fars fan.ser's House                                      80,000          8            64       576       640   110
Nous:hcld Equiptmn  D.eonstr,ticn Farms                              30.000        16           240       240       4S0   50
Offic. Stores Fars Naaager                                           20.000         S.          120        40       160   75
Tho Whel   ltiaor                                                  220.000          a         1.672        S8     1.760   95
Oh,nsn.as                                                           40,000         16           912        41       960   95
Sub^ct.al                                                                         k(.496    2,000    6,504
S. Tralllin&
Svnchrooircj  lide Projector               -                       270,000          1          257        13       270   95
Tools saJ Eq-i.,.nt for TraiOnsno  Wdorkthop                    2.0J0,000           1        1,800       200    2,000   90
Furnit.ra  for Oo.-tory                                           562,000          1           337       225       I62   60
Sub-t:l                                                                          __'394       438    2,832
C. Extensiio. s r.cL-
Ralio Teiephor- Control Sets                                       3 000             5       .1,425        75    1.500   95
Radia Teiapnane Slave Sets                                          145,000        30        4.113        217    4.350   95
Forniture for i>tooioo Officers' House                              80,000         13           104       936     1.040   10
Furniture for A-ista.ats' Houmse                                    54.000         10            54      4686        540   113
SUD,:. CA                                     _                                    ,716     1,114    7,430
D. Inforsation S-rvice
A) Audio Rcording Eq.ipmsot
ur toal                                                                          _  326         17       343   9.h
b) Phc, ugrap:;- tq4ipuent
Subt t.ai                                                                           879         49       928   9S
c)  Offict Eq,,;pFent
Sattotl,                                                                         _  388        21        409   93
S .,t;t , I  lnfor,.ation Service                                                 1,593         87    1,680
E.  Livesto.I  Sr;
a,  Office  *oo IJtvr.orE 2uroaure                                                              3i6       211       527   60
AircoidILicn-r and oftLe rLhinm!ry                                                       533        27       560   95'
Subt ta_l  849                                                                                 238      ,07
bl  La_ocutora   E,.uipnt
S bt,,Lrl                                                                         4,750        150    5,000   95
S,tiotal, Iivestock Services                                                      5,599        .S8    6,087
F. tEaL,_et 1,rf-
Offi,. MJ.ir-e                                                                                  180         8        168   95
Offi.a  ,.rt.ir.                                                                             _  190         10      200   60
S.r:,r.,1. Pto)ect Oftie                                                             370        16        188
TL't         - . ;rvt d Machinery                                                li. 168    4.,53    2.921
(Reference in text:   page 19, para 57)



- 39 -
ALppandix 3
DF`I_EL, Pi - JLCr CUSI                          Page  2
VFraign    Local    1arai
Uruit Cost                Cost       Cog:       Cost   FE
Vt        Quantity  Vt 'O0(   Vt  000  Vt' 000 G
Ill. Vehicles
A.  Extensicn Ser; t.i
4 1.0 LW  SEati-  .44on                                          1,500,000          1        1,350        15     1.500   90
4 '"! pi-ku,                                                        91q0.U00         3        2,430       270    2.700   90
Motarcycle                                                          150,000         24        3.240       360    3,600   90
Dinghies wLtt. O.LL3ard hoLtrs                                      700,000         13        6,190       910    9.1QO    90
%ct..:_P. isten,i:,. 3ervlce                                                    15,210    1,690    16.900
B.  txperinenta:i.    urlstration
Mctorcycie                                                          15(0,000         8        1080        120    1.200   90
Tota'  -picles                                                                   16.290    1.610   16.100
IV.  Agricltc.ra, 1np-s
A.  ExperimLntjt.-r nl Docmsantatioi,
Plancins MAte1al                                                    L94.000          8          466    1.066      1.,552   30
Fertilizer                                                           54.000         8           346        86       432   e0
Pesticiae.                                                           20.000          6          128        32       160   so
Cartle                                                               35.000          8          224        56       280    0
Pigs & Paultr,                                                        5.000          a           32         a        40    0
SubLcLta                                                                          1.196    1.268    2.464
8.  Extension vClustez Tr:1-i.
Planting   atetridl                                                  31 000        40           372       868     1,240   30
Fertilizer                                                            8.500        40           272        68       340   S0
Pescicides                                                 -          1.000        40            96        24       120   60
SubtoL..                                                 42,500                      740       960       1 700
Totdi Agricultural laputs                                                          1.93D    2.'28 48 164
V.  Consulting Serviceh
Agrac.lEura1 TrAi ,Lng Lunulttant                                       893,000          9        8,007         30    8.037    9.6
Ectsusion C.nsulta.iL                                                   893,000         12       10.676         40   107:6    9 .6
Agricultural Informaelon Consultant                                     893,000          9        6,007         30    6,037   99.6
lotzi .onsulting Services                                                        26.690        100   26.79U
VI. Training
A.  Extension Ser; ,e a Tagabe School
ln-Service-Trdinr.J,-
Refresh,r       r rses.  n. WeeK. 10 participants               162.000         25        2.430      1.b20      .050   bU
Woresno?s on leaching                                           .62,000          S          486        324       810   60
Overseas rellocships, (ne Yesr                                   1,580,000           7        9.954     1.106   11.060   90
Overseas Scud) Thurs. 4 onrhs                                     1.000.000         10        9,000    1,000   10,000   90
SubE.cal Extension                                                               21,b70    4,050   25,920
8    Iniormation Servi.e
VeI1lowhips ftr Kass lonauni.ation                               4,740,000         *2 *,S32               948     9.480    90
C.  Livestoc.  Service
Tialning tf La- ators lechnictan (4 months)                      1000.000            2        1,800       200    2,000   90
-Ot- Trai,ing Ser\lies                                                           32.202    5.198   37.400
Vil.  Increxntal  alar.e, .   n.  Wa/as
A.  Experizant and Demonstration
Farm Man.ger..  b,                                                  J42,000        26          -        8.892    8.892    0
Trainee.   hb.' , la')                                             (average)
76.200       104          -        7,',25    7.925    0
Subi atal                                                                                   16.817    16,817
Sl.  Tra;1,
F.rt. mlecnjr.i  lr ine.t                                            34'.000        4                   1 1.256   1,256    0
F.rwr MecntJi, fr;iner. t2) (a:ter complttinc   training)           337.000         4          -        1,346     1,34      0
-ublrJt    2,nO'.    2,604
C.  rxtern,i. :-   .
Asstsr.nt   1.a.::n 4.1rkers                                        I15000         20         -        :300    2,330    0
Iii.rrutl.l  'i:  ..r. a';.btO                                                      7          -        22t;    22t7    0
CU.ntrr.. t> r X re;ld,t.i.nl    i.t ;.Irsriuu                       :lb,0O)       bO          _     _   .l ',bU   i .,560    0
-   1t.82     3.e2;



- 40 -
Appendix 3
Page 3
)EfAILED PROJECT COST
foroion     Loal    Total
Unit Cost                Cost        .ost      C,.st    FE
Vt       Quaotitvy  Vt  000   Vt  00O  vt  000   2
E.  Pr1ecz uffice
Proj.cL Coo 4iu.tur                                                  35u.000          5         -         1,750     1.750    0
AccouniAnt                                                          3147,000          5         -         1.685    1 85    0
Secretar)                                                            !50.000          5         -         1, 25     i 25D     0
Sutorvt                                                                              -        4 tbF5    4.635
'cta. S:jlaries and Wageb                                                          _         30.22J   30.233
V 11. Inntnal %vkelng~ost
A.  En,er,e..:         .2fl D,.nsrratiun
huiiainr  Maintc arne 5 kepair                                                                   351        619    1170   30
(1 of construction c.st ior Farm hanagei ' houses,
Office and Stores;
3E p.s. for Prozsssing Facilities and
Trir.aecs' ho-ises)
Iotorcvcle iRepair ar.d Maintet%ance                                                              203       202       405   50
(15; of P.urdha-&' ',alue)
.%torcyclu Op~eration                                                 18,000         26           574        94       468   t10
Office SEores  p.a.                                                    4.000         18            54        i1         72   75
9*829     1.133    2.115
B.  Trainir-S
Iui1dinr  Repair i 4Mintdnance. 1: p.s.                                   94          3           141       141       282   50
IAintsaace 1.1a & Zq%ipuent, 101 p.-.                                    227          4           454       45A       908   5iO
Suitotal                                                                              595        595     1,190
C.  ExLeusion :ierice
Iuildiru  A.:pair and hdint..n3rce                                                                290       690       96    30
Vehicl.s Mer4ir and MAinteoance                                                                4,543    4Y342    9,S85   30
Vehicts Operatingi Expense                                                                    S.399      2.09Y    1O,;98   li0
ladic fquiprsnt Maintenance.10Z p.a.                       -                          3           798       798    1.596   5D
turtota.                                                                           1410D36    8.129   22.165
D.  lnforation 0: ice
Supp1is  and mAincenAnce                                                             5        1jD08        252     1.260   110
E.  Lives:r,).k Se:vices
Supp:ies an.d m.intenancc                                                             4        ..4760  l        690    B.AS0   10
F.  Project Offi.e
Supplies and 'ainLatnj.ce, Trave!                                                 .  5            364       121       485   75
Ectl Ilncremntal otperating Cost L745    11.92O    j5.665



4/1 -
Appendix 3
Page 4
SUMMARY DETAILED PROJECT COST
4                                                      Foreign         Local           Total
Cost         Cost            Cost
Category                         (Vt '000)     (Vt '000)       (Vt '000)
I.  Civil Works                             55,045        40,043          95,088
II.  Equipment and Machinery                 20,168         4,753          24,921
III.  Vehicles                                16,290         1,810          18,100
IV.  Agricultural Inputs                      1,936         2,228           4,164
V.  Consulting Services                     26,690           100          26,790
VI.  Training                                32,202         5,198          37,400
VII.  Incremental Salaries and Wages            -           30,233          30,233
VIII.  Incremental Operating Cost              23,745        11,920          35,665
Total Base Cost                     176,076       96,285         272,361
Physical Contingency                    12,076         7,178         19,254
Price Escalation                        44,648       29,876          74,524
IX. Financial Charges during
Project Implementation                 9,700         -              9,700
Total Project Cost (Vt '000)        242,500      133,339         375,839
Total Project Cost ($ '000)           2,500        1,375           3,875



Appendix 4
Page 1
_orms of Reference
Project lmplecnentation Consultants
I.  Training Advisor (9 man-=nnths)
1.        The consultant will have agricultural experience with a diploma
or post-graduate degree in Education.  At least five years practical
experience in structuring training course in developing countries will
also be required. Preference will be given to experience gained in
Pacific Islands. The consultant's terms of reference will include but
not necessarily be limited to:
(i) undertake a full review of all agricultural training
activities in Vanualu including formal education,
in-service trairling and special courses;
(ii)  examine and make recommendations concerning the future
role of Tagabe National Agricultural School taking
into account training aims, entry and selection
requirements, type(s) of course(s), duration,
practical and theoretical orientation and mediulm
of instruction;
(iii)  prepare curricular and training materials f-or use
in pre-service and in-service courses;
(iv) determine jointly with the Extension Advisor
priorities for overseas training and advise on the
selection of candidates and suitable arrangements
for such training; and
(v) assist the Government in the implementatiorn of
recommendations.
The Advisor will be recruited as an individual consultant. The consultant
will be responsible to the Director of Agriculture, DALF and will be
available for three periods of three months over the Project implementation
with the first visit to coincide with the fielding of the Agricultural
Extension Specialist and the Agricultural Information Advisor.
II. Agricultural Extension Specialist (12 man-months)
2.        The consultant should possess recognized qualifications in agri-
culture and have at least five years field experience of agricultural
extension work in developilg countries.  Preference will be given to
experience gained in the South Pacific. The terms of reference will
include but not be restricted to:
(Reference in text:  page 17, 'ara 5I)



Appendix 4
Page 2
(i)  examine in detail the present functions, organization
and staffing of the Extension service taking into
account pre-service training and experience of the
present staff in position;
(ii)  identify the constraints as a result of the present
training practices both prior to and in-service and
formulate the policies upon which DALF should recruit
and train staff together with the Training Consultant;
(iii)  evaluate in cooperation with the Agricultural Information
Advisor requirements for agricultural information at the
field level (extension officers and smallholders);
(iv)  prepare recommendations for DALF on improved extension
methods, achievement-oriented deployment of staff
and more efficient operating and supervisory procedures; and
(v)  assist in the implementation of all proposals and prepare
operating manuals for the guidance of ni-Vanuatu Extension
Officers.
The consultant will be recruited as an individual consultant. The
consultant will report to the Director of Agriculture. In order to
assist in efficient implementation, he will be available for four periods
of about three months each, with the initial visit to coincide with the
fielding of the Extension Specialist and the Communications Advisor.
III. Agricultural Information Advisor (9 man-months)
3.        The consultant will have had formal training in mass communication
and have had at least five years experience in using mass media for agri-
cultural information. Experience in Pacific Islands would be desirable.
The consultant's terms of reference would include but not necessarily be
limited to:
(i)  determine jointly with the Extension Advisor and the
Training Advisor information requirements at the
field level;
(ii)  identify the present constraints to communication with
smallholders in Vanuatu and prepare in detail proposals
how such constraints can best be overcome;
(iii)  review the present operation of the agricultural
Information Office and prepare a work program for
the next five years;
(iv)  assist on the selection of suitable ni-Vanuatu
candidates for overseas training in communications



Appendix 4
Page 3
and make recomrendations on the duration and
type of training required; and
(v)  give assistance to DALF in the implementation
of proposals and in particular provide short
term on-the-job training to those ni-Vanuatu
returning after overseas training.
The Advisor will be recruited as an individual consultanit. He would
be responsible to the Director of Agriculture. The assignment would be
phased in three periods cf about three months each over the implementation
period of the Project. The first assignment would coincide with the visit
of the other consultants provided under the Project.



Appendix 5
Terms of Reference
Technical Assistance Consultant
Management Information System Advisor (30 man-months)
1.        The consultant will be suitably qualified and have a good
background in public accounting and administration combined with project
planning, coordination, implementation and evaluation.  Field experience
gained in Pacific Island countries would be advantageous. The terms of
reference would include but not be restricted to:,
(i) establishing a unit within DALF and the necessary
systems and accounting procedures to ensure the
timely preparation of the annual capital and
recurrent budgets and subsequent accounts of DALF;
(ii) advising DALF on any reorganization necessary for
the preparation of the departments development
program and more efficient project implementation
and monitoring;
(iii) the installation of recruitment procedures for
consultants and procurement procedures acceptable
to aid donors and in particular in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement and Recruitment
of Consultants;
(iv) establishing a system for project reporting in DALF
to ensure progress reports are submitted as required; and
(v) train a counterpart DALF officer together with an
accountant to ensure the maintenance of the
planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting
systems as installed.
The Advisor will be selected as an individual consultant by the Bank in
consultation with the Government. He shall assume his responsibilities
at the start of the Project. The consultant will report directly to the
Director of Agriculture.
(Reference in text:  pax4e 22, para 65)



ORGANIZATION STRUCrURE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE,
LIVESTOCK l 1A)D FORESTRY
-   .              ~~~MINISTER.II
LSecretariat                                                                       Political Sec:.      Tnfo Service
(D
(D
0                                                        Permanent Sec,    ---- -    cnms
(D
                                        | ~~~~~~~~~~~~Dir. of Agricul.
___~~ ~       ~ I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Oil Crops        Cocoa and Coffe                              Root Crops                n           vanuatu Live-
L  Research             Research .                               Development                           Stoc. Dev. Ltd.
;    Secretariat          Deputy Director
a        I    ____        J            I oE ltRric ll~~~~ture I
Livestock Service               Agriculture Serv,              Fery Service
3mlliholder Catt e        Training             Extension           Quarantine &      Agricultural
Development Proj           Division            Division            Produce Ins-      Loans Div.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x
M6nimartre Plan-j
tation Manage-
ment Training



Appendix 7
A1.IA2   I'r 1           1 i)  AI)b s;I\i IlA)                        Page  1
Allocation             Procurement                 Sdtis of
FC   LC        Method a/                    Disbureemnt b/
A.  Civil Works, various contracts               567         413            LCB                        100  contract valus
S. Machinery and Equipment
1.  Demonstration farms
and Experimentation plats
- calculators. two-wheel
cultivators. ciwinac                   30           3            is                        95f  cif
- furniture                               2          14            LS                         152 exehop
- remaining equipment                    14           4             IS/LS                    802 exehop
2.  Trainina
- synchronized alide projectur            3                         I 1s                      951  cif
- tools and equip_ent for workshop   19               2             Is                        9u0  cif
- furniture for dormitory                 3           2            LS                        602 exshop
3.  Extension Service
- radio telephon  equipment              57           2             Is                      '/'   cif
- furniture                               2          15            LS                         152  xehaop
4. Information Service
- auio-equipment                          3          -              is                       98Z  cif
photo-equipment                        9            1            is                        952  cif
- office equipmet                         d          -             IS                        952  cif
5.  Livestock Services
- airconditionar                          3          -             is                        952  cif
- office mchins_                          3          -             IS                        952  cif
- laboratory equipimt                   49            3            IS                        952  cif
- furniture                               3           2            Li/IS                     602 *eXhop
G. Mrojeet Office
- office machinery d aircood.             2          -             I1                        952  cif
- offiee furniture                        I          -             LI                        b02 exshop
C.  Vehicles (various comsurects)               1i"           19            IS                        90S  cif
D. Agricultural  puts
planting materials. livsstocl                9          23             force account             1002 of coat
ina.cticidee, fertilier                       9                         LS/IS                      802 cit of exsbcp
S.  Cosultin  Servicas                          275                          ank Guidelinoe           1002 foreigo excchase
T. Tr
In-service-traninUs                          30                         force account             602 of coat
Oversee  training                           302                                                   902 of cost
G.  Ineremtal SaUlries  nd Wages                -
H.  Incremental Operating Cost                  245                         IS for major supplies  1002 cif value or
(laboratory)             off-ahelf-volu< of
off-the shelve for        supplies. spares.
minor items force         materials
Iasacost                                  1,815         503
imallocate                                  585         197
Toa t  alI                                2,400         700
I/ LCS-Locel Cometitive Bidding; LS-Lcal Shopping; IS"international Shopping.
b/  Including local handling storage an   inter-leland transport.
(Referenrme   in   text:    page   24,  para   70)



- 48 -
Appendix 7
Page 2
ALLOCATION BY DONOR
($ '000)
Total
ADB         IDA             Loans
___________ __  FC   LC   FC      LC     kC     LC
Consultants ADB 100%                       275   -        -     -        275   -
Other FC cost ADB 21.4%                    330   -      1,210   -      1,540
IDA 78.6%; LC, ADB 42.8%;JDA 57.2%          -   218       -    291      -    509
Base Cost Allocation                       605  218    1,210  291    1,815  509
Unallocated LC ADB 33.3%; IDA 66.7%;
LC ADB 43%: IDA 57%                     195   82       390  109      585  191
Total Allocation                           800  300    1,600  400    2,400  700
TOTAL LOANS                            1,100         2,0010        3,100
35.5%        64.5%.



IMPLEMENTATION  SCHEDULEAppendix 
I, Expessusao  teuo  end 0.maUsrsUIo,,
Cantor ILend        sireno
ConsinmCt-o
Pro-ur-ent eimn
Center Ited IlI
Lend a0p.-Srtrosr
T.ntler C,oI wokrk
Award of Contract
Procurement
C.utl.trttr, WarltO
Centers IV. V. Vt
Lan  Wt.arton
A-ed of  ontact
Cesasr VI I ad \VIII
Awird of Contuaa
Proix. res.ent
C.stmtsetosr. operessos
IL.   Truo
Tagels Netsonal Agrics,ltaral Schsoo
Tenda cwdt works
Award at Contrait
Prociinrnianii ad",.W.Ms.
P,oc,,nerint wo*dshM
eqrwnwstt
In-anscr t ea,ncing   f ft  aiW -tn
WVork*shop as teaching
Oser,. fell-rshis lee sons
1 and 2
Orwaiss Study toot, Io
Fellowshv lfe Rum curnn,enass
Labsatory taclsscensosaa
lit. E~~it 
CaO arutos, &dso- 1asa   3  .c .oa.no.
4-7                                                                                  !       
Hwasss.lt f  rstant stanson,
Poleecis. of Vahwala
stat`o' *aggas
Pick-ups
Rldo telphone as.ks
Cluster trials
IV.  Infor"tnass Se                                                                                                                                F
Proo.rerenan of Etsupnent
V.  Lsvtatsck Sansces
C-kt Wwrks
Tw,dee leboseitoov bldg.
Aesesd of Contsact
Vt.  Proet fOffice
VII.Cnstst 
Tra,.Nrn Cun,sattar
Extesrioir Cosraltu-t 



LOGICAL FRAHEWORX SHRUT
VANUATU SKALLHOLDER AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NARRATIVE   SUMM4ARY                        PROJECT   FORMULATION               _____________________                           _________________
1                                                                                                1 *    _    *   hActions for
Socto-Economic Goals                       Indicators of Achievement                    Malor Aesumptions/Loan Covenant_ Monitoring aol Fva_luaton
By the provision of support to          - Increase in Agricultural production.            -  DALr will establish a Project office   -  PBME will be based on results
smallholdere increased cash in-         - Incremental value of production,                   under a Project Coordinator to coor-           of the Agricultural Census
comes will:                             - Number of beneficiaries and benefit                dinate external aid and implent            |   currently being  ndertaken by
-  provide a higher standard              distribution.                                      the Project.                                   DALF, together with other COV
of living,                           - Incremental return to land labour and           -  The GOV shall make available all funds    statistics which are readily
-   t         m            involve-       capital.                                           for implementation *nd continued               available.
ment in cash economy;               - More efficient use of land,                         operation of the Project.                   -  Format for quarterly project
-  contribute to growth of m   DP       - Value of incremental exported produce.          -  GOV shall provide staff necessary for          reporting will be prepared
with eqiual dtstribution of          - Incremental export taese                           implementation of the Project.                 for guidance of the Project
income;                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- GOV will  assure avaeiability of credit    Office this  t1tl provide for
-  increaoe GOV FE earnings:                                                                 to e*_llholders through DBV or as              PBHE as appropriate.
-  increase COV revenurn  and                                                                appropriate.                                -  On loan approval an Inception
-  make more efVrevent use of                                                             -  GOV vill encourage the production of           Mission will be ftelded to
nAtural resources.                                                                        high quality output by maintaining             discuss projecc implementation
price preeluma.                                and to establish PBMF require-
p                                                                                                m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~entsa.
Project Purpose                                                                                                                -  Review Missions wtill be dis-
Maximize the benefits of external   - Acceptance of recomrended practices,                                                                  patched at least once a year
grand aid in respect of research    - incremental procurement of farm inputs,                                                               to nwnitor progress in
and project funding by:                 - Greater utilization of credit,                                                                    project implementation.
- Number of extension workers trained.                                                           -  PCR should be prepared in 1988
-  developing  local fitdri       s       Number of young smaiholders trained.                                                              to repot and  erify_the
to teat research stationAid donor funds effectively disbursod.                                                                           rchvcir-nrr sof  -i eProject.
food ings;
- demonstrating research findings
under smaliholder conditions;
-  training of extension workers.
-  training of young smallholders; :
-- providing support services to
saaltholders; and
- improving the ability of DALF
to program and implement
projects.
ProPect Inputs
PoctInouts
(including contingencies end price escalstion)
1984    1985    1986   l987  log8  TOTA
1. Expertmentation and
Demonstration                            85      193     325   280   108        991
11. Training                                 102     244      256      9    70       ;63
Ill. Extension Service                       194     479      322    82   103   1,180
IV. Information Office                        27        9       17    19    20        Su
V.  Livestock Service                       107      105       31    33    35       310
VI. Project Offtce                            14       13       15    16    16        74
VII. Consultants                              93       66       70    75    40       344
Total                           617   1,109   1,036   596   392   3,750
Protect Output
The Project benefits will be inferred from increased quantities and values of the major agrtcultural exports. i.e. copra, meat and meat products.
cocoa and coffee.



