bU 1rfNJT CREDIT NUBER      VA
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Extension and Training Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated     C'                       1983


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                     , 1983,
between REPUBLIC OF VANUATU (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association),
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has applied to the Asian Development Bank
(hereinafter called the ADB) for a loan (hereinafter called the
ADB Loan) from the ADB's Special Funds resources in various cur-
rencies equivalent to one million twenty-nine thousand six hun-
dred Special Drawing Rights (SDR 1,029,600) to assist in finan-
cing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an-'
agreement (hereinafter called the ADB Loan Agreement) (Special
Operations) to be entered into between the Borrower and the ADB;
(C) the Borrower has applied to ADB for technical assis-
tance relating to the Project in an amount not to exceed the
equivalent  of  two  hundred and   sixty-five  thousand  dollars
($265,000) (hereinafter called the ADB Grant); and
(D) ADB and the Association intend to enter into an agree-
ment, which agreement will be confirmed by the Borrower (herein-
after called the Administration Letter) making arrangements for
the ADB to process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of
the financing to be provided severally by ADB and the Association
and regulating certain other matters of common interest in
connection with such financing.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿- 2 -
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MLNR" means the Ministry of Land and Natural Resources
of the Borrower;
(b)  "DALF" means the Department of Agriculture, Livestock
and Forestry within MLNR; and
(c)  "Project facilities" means the facilities to be pro-
vided or constructed under the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section  2.01. The    Asso,ciation  agrees  to  lend  to  the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to one million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 1,900,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time, The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1993, and ending June 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through DALF with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, fiiancial, engineering and agri-
cultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the provision of sub-section (a)
above, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out
all the obligations set forth in Schedule 6 to the ADB Loan
Agreement. Notwithstanding the termination of the ADB Loan Agree-
ment or the Administration Letter, the provision of this sub-
section and the relevant provisions of Schedule 6 of the ADB Loan
Agreement shall continue to remain in force and effect as if the
said provisions of Schedule 6 of the ADB Loan Agreement are fully
set forth herein. -
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in, among
others, agricultural training, extension and information, the
Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed, consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consultants to be
selected and employed in acco'rdance with principles and proce-
dures of selection and employment included in Schedule 5 to the
ADB Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods' and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement


﻿-5-
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The    Borrower  shall:   (i)   maintain   records  and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than ?ix months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of


﻿- 6 -
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistpntly
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested, including without limitation to the foregoing,
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the expendi-
tures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as
to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of statem'ents of expenditure have been used
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request,
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Project facili-
ties to be operated, maintained and repaired in accordance with
sound administrative, financial, engineering, agricultural devel-
opment and maintenance and operational practices and shall pro-
vide the funds, facilities, services and other resources for the
purpose.
Section 4.03. The Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, delegate to the ADB under an administration letter, for
the duration of such period as may be set forth in the Adminis-
tration Letter, any or all of its functions and responsibilities
under Articles III and IV of this Agreement and the Borrower
shall comply with the provisions of the said Articles as if the


﻿- 7 -
ADB is substituted for the Association therein.   The obligation
of the Borrower to comply with said Articles III and IV shall
continue in force and effect notwithstanding any termination or
suspension of such delegated functions and responsibilities to
the ADB under the Administration Letter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the ADB Grant or ADB Loan made to the Borrower
for the financing of the Project or any part
thereof shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
terms of the ADB Grant or ADB Loan, respectively,
therefor; or
(ii) the ADB Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
gations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sourcus on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 8 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ADB Loan, other than a condition precedent for the effectiveness
of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
ADB Grant shall have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date    -r       79/Y , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.   The Minisier of Finance, Commerce, Industry
and Tourism of the Borrower is designated as the representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance, Commerce, Industry and Tourism
P. 0. Box 31
Port Vila
Republic of Vanuatu
Telex:
1049 VATUBK NH


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Manila,
Republic of The Philippines , as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF VANUATU
By       A/00 A/  Al /  L2IcJ()C
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B                 Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil works                  719,000          100%
(2) Machinery and                161,000 )        100% of foreign
equipment                           )        expenditures,
)        100% of local
(3) Vehicles                     116,000 )        expenditures
)        (ex-factory
(4) Agricultural                  30,000 )        cost) and
inputs                              )        80% of local
)        expenditures
)        for other items
)        procured
)        locally
(5) Training                     180,000          100%
(6) Incremental                  132,000          100%
operating
costs
(7) Unallocated                  562,000
TOTAL                1,900,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;


﻿- 11 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods. or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawa ; shall be made in respect of expenditures made prior
to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, che Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's


﻿- 12 -
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is the improvement of essential
smallholder support services in Vanuatu. The Project will encou-
rage more efficient utilization of resources, increase small-
holders' cash income, enlarge the Borrower's revenue base and
provide training facilities. The Project consists of the follow-
ing:
1.   Experimental Plots and Demonstration Farms
Establishment and maintenance of experimental plots and
demonstration farms with support services at 8 agricultural cen-
ters of DALF in the Project area.
2.   Training and Fellowships
(a) Provision of in-service training facilities for the
extension division, and overseas fellowships and study
tours for extension staff, agricultural teachers, agri-
cultural information officers and veterinary laboratory
technicians;
(b) Revision of post secondary education course held at the
Tagabe Agricultural School; and
(c) Provision of facilities for farmers' training at the
demonstration farms.
3.   Extension Service
Provision of houses, offices/stores, vehicles, dinghys and
radio-telephone equipment for upgrading the extension service of
DALF.
4.   Agricultural Information Service
Provision of equipment, information material, incremental
salaries and material cost for improving the existing information
services in the Agricultural Information Office of DALF.


﻿- 14 -
5.   Livestock Service
Establishment of a veterinary laboratory through the provi-
sion of laboratory building, equipment and chemical supplies.
6.   Project Office
Provision of office furniture, equipment and incremental
salaries for the Project Office.
7.   Consulting Service
Provision of consulting services for agricultural training,
extension services and information.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1988.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, goods and
civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
Schedule 4 of the ADB Loan Agreement, provided always that
procurement of such goods and civil works shall be from suppliers
and contractors in countries in respect of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account may be made pursuant to Section 5.01 of the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of ___6__A
198    .
FOR SECRETARY


