Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14666
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2448-IN)
JUNE 22, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
South Asia Country Department II
(Bhutan, India, Nepal)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indian Rupee
At appraisal: US$1.00 = Rupee 30.00
At completion: US$1.00 = Rupee 31.37
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
I meter (m) = 3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kim) = 0.62 miles
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEM                Country Economic Memorandum
CPSE               Central Public Sector Enterprises
CSSM               Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project
DEA                Department of Economic Affairs
DPEP               District Primary Education Project
GOI                Government of India
ICDS               Integrated Child Development Services
JRY                Jawahar Rozgar Yojana
NCAER              National Council for Applied Economic
Research
NRF                National Renewal Fund
NRGF               National Renewal Grant Fund
NRY                Nehru Rozgar Yojana
NSSO               National Sample Survey Organization
NTC                National Textile Corporation
PDS                Public Distribution System
SSN                Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment
Program
VRS                Voluntary Retirement Scheme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CR 2448-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................ii
PART 1: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction .......................................I
B. Origins and Evolution of the Operation ........................................2
C. Program  Objectives and Design ........................................2
D. Achievement of Specific Objectives ........................................3
E. Assessment of Outcome and Sustainability ........................................9
F. Covenant Compliance .......................................                                      13
G. Bank Performance ......................................                                          13
H. Borrower Performance ......................................                                      14
I.  Key Lessons Learned ......................................                                      14
PART Il: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ........................................................................ 16
Table 2: Program  Policy Matrix ...........................                                         18
Table 3: Related Bank Loans or Credits ...........................                                  30
Table 4: Project Timetable ...........................                                              36
Table 5: Credit Disbursements ...........................                                          37
Table 6: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ...........................                                  38
Table 7: Bank Resources - Missions ............................                                     39
PART III: APPENDICES
Table I (a): National Renewal Fund - Budget ......................................                 40
Table 1(b): Progress of Voluntary Retirement Scheme ....................................... 41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2448-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Safety
Net Sector Adjustment Program in India, for which Credit 2448-IN in the amount of
SDR 354.7 (US$500 million equivalent) was approved on December 17, 1992 and
made effective on December 21, 1992.
The credit was closed on August 31, 1994. The original closing date was
December 31, 1993. The closing date was extended twice, first to June 30, 1994 and
then to August 31, 1994. This was needed to allow sufficient time for the conditions
for the second tranche release to be met, as well as for the tranche to be released.
The credit was fully disbursed on October 20, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Operations
Division, South Asia Country Department 11, with important inputs from Ms. Aruna
Chandran and Mr. Hiroaki Suzuki. It was reviewed by Richard L. Skolnik, Division
Chief, Population and Human Resources Operations Division, South Asia Country
Department 11 and Mr. Heinz Vergin, Director, South Asia Country Department II.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in October, 1994. It is based on material
in the program files, information collected during the supervision missions, and
information collected by missions on matters related to the Social Safety Net
Program, across the Bank's portfolio. The report incorporates comments made on it
by the government of the Netherlands. The report also takes into accounts comments
made on it by the government of India.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i     The IDA-assisted Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment Operation
supported the initial phase of the government of India's Social Safety Net Sector
Adjustment Program.  It aimed at facilitating structural adjustment, helping
mitigate potentially negative consequences of adjustment, and promoting the
development of key social programs. The Sector Adjustment Credit of US$500
million became effective on December 21, 1992, and was fully disbursed by
October 20, 1994. In addition to the Bank, financial and technical assistance was
provided by the governments of Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
European Community, and USAID. This operation complemented the Structural
Adjustment Loan 1 and was followed by the External Sector and Investment
Liberalization Program Loan.
Program Objectives and Design
ii.    The credit for this policy based operation supported: (s) the restoration
and increase of central government funding for key social programs; (b) an
expansion of key social and safety net programs into districts in India that are
especially disadvantaged and/or especially at risk of suffering negative
consequences as a result of stabilization and adjustment; (c) the carrying out of
selected measures for a number of social and safety net programs that set a
foundation for and initiated some improvements in the quality, effectiveness, and
efficiency of those programs; and (d) the funding of the National Renewal Fund
(NRF) to facilitate industrial restructuring and the reintegration of retrenched
labor into the economy. The specific components of the Social Safety Net Sector
Adjustment Program (SSN) focused on policy change and activities in the areas of
primary education, primary health care, disease control, nutrition, and
employment and income generation.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   The program's objectives were largely achieved, although with some delay
compared to original plans. There was consistent progress toward meeting the
benchmarks concerning education, disease control, primary health care, and
nutrition, although progress in addressing issues of program coordination and the



iii
medium-term financing of the social sectors was slower than originally intended.
In addition, activities related to the NRF generally took longer than anticipated.
iv.    The progress of the Social Safety Net Program to be assisted by the credit
was to be assessed in the context of the overall stabilization and adjustment
program and the policy framework set out in the Letter of Development Policy
provided by GOI to the Bank. More specifically, implementation of the Safety
Net Program was to be considered against the first and second tranche release
conditions.
v.    The first tranche was available upon credit effectiveness and was based on
significant up-front actions that GOI had already taken to implement the program
in the major areas of reform. Some of the significant actions taken included: (a)
in the area of financing of the social safety net, measures were taken to affect
social sector financing policy, mobilization of non-budgetary resources and cost
recovery; (b) in terms of coordination and integration, the Eighth Five-Year Plan
outlined new strategies and approaches that called for better coordination and
integration of services between health, education, nutrition, water supply and
sanitation, and urban and rural employment programs; (c) in primary education,
measures were taken to revise the National Policy on Education of 1986, target
resources and programs to disadvantaged groups and regions, and enhance the
quality of service delivery; (d) in health, a review of the National Health Policy
of 1982 was started; (e) in the area of primary health care and disease control,
measures were taken to target disadvantaged groups and areas, and to enhance the
quality of service delivery; (f) in the nutrition sector, the government formulated,
for the first time, a national nutrition policy, undertook measures to target
disadvantaged groups and areas, and enhanced the quality of service delivery; (g)
with regards to employment and income generation, the NRF was established and
the operational guidelines of the NRF were formally approved by the Cabinet;
and finally, (h) in terms of monitoring of the social dimensions of adjustment,
management information systems were established by GOI to monitor progress in
the implementation of new initiatives in primary education, primary health care
and communicable disease control, and the ICDS program.
vi.    The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) contained nine monitorable
conditions that needed to be fulfilled prior to the release of the second tranche.
These conditions were met and this fulfillment was linked to: (a) an increase in
the budget allocations for key social sector programs; (b) a review of the
financing of the social sectors, and some steps to improve the medium term
financing of the social sectors; (c) some initial steps in program coordination
leading to greater convergence of efforts across programs in the same districts; (d)
the establishment of the District Primary Education Program for promoting the
development of basic education in selected low literacy districts; (e) the
completion of an assessment of pharmaceutical requirements and delivery of the
initial batch of pharmaceutical kits developed under the Child Survival and Safe



Iv
Motherhood Program to selected districts; (f) some steps towards enhancing the
quality of delivery of primary health care services; (g) development of improved
programs in leprosy, blindness, tuberculosis and the initial steps of developing an
enhanced malaria program; (h) some increase in feeding under the Integrated
Child Development Services Program and commencement of construction of
godowns for ICDS food storage in selected states; and (i) the implementation of
the NRF's business and financial plan during FY92/93, approval of the FY93/94
business and financial plan for the NRF, and allocation of the necessary funds for
the NRF account consistent with the projected requirements of the FY93/94
business and financial plan.
Assessment of Outcome and Sustainability
vii.   The program achieved its basic objectives (paragraph ii) and should be
rated as "satisfactory".  In addition, it set a basis for a number of specific
investment projects in disease control and education that have the potential to
have very long-lasting outcomes. Future GOI investments, as well as possible
IDA lending in nutrition and primary health, will also build on policy
developments and program activities supported under the SSN and may lead to
positive long-term outcomes. The long-term impact and sustainability of the NRF
are, however, still uncertain.
viii.  In terms of financing, the SSN enhanced social sector expenditure and
improved the targeting of that expenditure.  The SSN also contributed to
important shifts in the composition of expenditure on the social sectors.
However, the SSN did not make the desired contribution to the development of a
coherent approach to the medium-term financing of the social sectors, which was
one of the objectives of establishing the review of financing.
ix.   One of the more significant and probably long-lasting contributions of the
SSN was the basis that it set for increasing investment in primary education. It
facilitated the rapid development of the District Primary Education Program
(DPEP) in India, which is quickly becoming an umbrella for both national and
international assistance to the development of primary education in India. The
DPEP is now the main vehicle for encouraging universalization of primary
education in India.
x.    In the area of health, the SSN facilitated the development of improved
programs in leprosy, blindness, and tuberculosis, and initiated developments for
malaria. These programs are expected to have very important outcomes in the
future if they are successful in reducing the burden of disease.
xi.   In the areas of primary health care and nutrition, although related tranche
release conditions were fulfilled, there have not yet been any far-reaching
outcomes of the specific activities related to the program.



v
xii.   Another area where there was significant contribution from the SSN
related to the NRF. The operation did lead to the funding of the NRF and NRF
payments under the Voluntary Retirement Scheme by March 1995 to about
77,000 workers. In addition, counseling, training and area regeneration schemes
were initiated. The role of the NRF to date, however, has been more limited than
was originally anticipated because industrial restructuring has been slow and
because the design and implementation of employment generation activities and
training and counseling activities started relatively late and took longer than
envisaged to develop fully.
Bank and Borrower Performance
xiii.  Overall Bank performance was adequate. Bank staff knowledgeable in
their respective sectors were involved in the SSN. In terms of the NRF, it must be
noted that Bank assistance went beyond the scope of regular supervision and Bank
staff assisted GOI in identifying appropriate funding for technical assistance and
training, and designing and implementing measures to institutionalize the NRF.
xiv.  Overall borrower performance met agreed expectations. There did exist
however, the persistent problem of lack of continuity of key staff involved with
the operation in the Ministry of Industry and the Department of Economic Affairs,
and among secretaries involved in committees on coordination and financing.
Key Lessons Learned
xv.   Several major lessons emerge from a review of this operation:
.  As suggested by the Bank's reviews of adjustment lending, the
adjustment process can be used to have a positive influence on both
the amount and the composition of expenditure earmarked for the
social sectors. Rather than cut expenditures on key social programs
during adjustment, the Union government in India has shown how
countries can use the adjustment process to try to positively "adjust"
public expenditure on social programs, as well as to adjust
macroeconomic balances.
*  Despite initial skepticism within the Bank, the SSN program suggests
that operations of this type can be used to promote medium-term
developments in the social sectors, as took place under the program,
particularly in the education and health sectors.
*  In order to maximize the impact of cross-sectoral operations like the
SSN, it is imperative that each sectoral program be embedded in the
ongoing collaboration of the Bank and the client and be linked, as
well, to specific investment operations to follow. Taking this approach



vi
has encouraged important positive long-term outcomes for the
education and health components of the SSN program. Ongoing work
promises similar results for family planning in India. The same might
also be true later for nutrition.
* Programs meant to assist retrenched workers should establish
institutional mechanisms for counseling, retraining, and redeployment
at an early stage to avoid a mismatch between the timing of
retrenchment and the provision of these important services to those
who have lost their jobs.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(CREDIT 2448-IN)
PART 1. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The government of India (GOI) that came into power in June 1991,
embarked on a stabilization of the economy to overcome its balance of payments
crisis. Concerned about possible negative impacts of the program on the poor,
GOI adopted a program of specific measures aimed at strengthening the existing
social safety net. In its endeavor to achieve these measures, GOI sought the
assistance of IDA.
2.    On December 21, 1992, IDA's Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment Credit
(SSN) of US$500 million became effective and the first tranche of the credit of
SDR 177.35 million (US$250 million equivalent) was fully disbursed by March
1993. The second tranche (the remaining US$250 million equivalent) was fully
disbursed by October 20, 1994.
3.    The government of the Netherlands provided joint financing for the
Program of 100 million Dutch guilders (US$55.56 million equivalent). USAID
provided parallel financing of US$35 million for activities related to the National
Renewal Fund (NRF). A grant from the government of Japan for yen 40.5 million
(US$377,500 equivalent) and a Swiss grant of US$200,000 also assisted in the
development of the NRF component of the program. Lastly, related to the SSN
operation and the subsequent IDA assisted District Primary Education Project
(DPEP), the European Community provided ECU150 million (US$184.50 million
equivalent) in parallel financing for the development of primary education.
4.    The Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment Program (SSN) was the second
policy-based operation in India. It complemented the Structural Adjustment Loan
1 (Loan 3421-IN, Credit Nos. 2316-IN and 2316-1-IN) that was approved by the
Board on December 5, 1991 and was followed by the External Sector and
Investment Liberalization Program Loan (Loan 3627-IN) that was approved by
the Board on June 24, 1993.



2
B. Origins and Evolution of the Operation
5.    The initial inspiration for the program was the fear of the potentially
adverse impacts of possible industrial restructuring and the desire of the
government of India and the Bank to help encourage such restructuring, while
mitigating its possible consequences. At its early stages, therefore, the operation
concept focused on the notion of a National Renewal Fund. Some thought was
also given to including labor and employment schemes in the operation. As the
program concept evolved, however, both the government and the Bank became
more concerned about the overall impact of adjustment and the possibility that
public expenditure on the social sectors would be hurt. This led to thinking about
the inclusion of the social sectors in the program and considerable discussion of
whether or not the Public Distribution Scheme should also be included. Finally,
there was discussion of whether primary education should feature prominently in
the operation. This stemmed from the fear within the Bank and in some
government circles that any negative impact of adjustment would be especially
deleterious to the education sector, that was already performing at a much lower
level than desired. In the end, despite considerable hesitation in the Loan
Committee about including education in the operation, it was agreed that the
program would be multifaceted: it would not only assist in funding the NRF, but
would also try to enhance the funding and operation of the social sectors, while
creating an umbrella for a major push forward in primary education. The
possibility of directly including the PDS in the program was dropped, given the
complexity of this matter and the fact that it is extremely sensitive politically.
This was also true of directly including any assistance in the operation for labor
and employment schemes, such as the Jawahar Rozgar Yojana (JRY) and the
Nehru Rozgar Yojana (NRY).
C. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
6.    The SSN supported: (a) the restoration and increase of central government
funding for key social programs; (b) an expansion of key social and safety net
programs into districts in India that are especially disadvantaged or especially at
risk of suffering negative consequences as a result of stabilization and adjustment;
(c) the carrying out of selected measures for a number of social and safety net
programs that can set a foundation for and initiate some improvements in the
quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of those programs; and (d) the funding of the
NRF to facilitate industrial restructuring and the reintegration of retrenched labor
into the economy. The specific components of SSN focused on policy change and
activities that were categorized as primary education, primary health care, disease
control, nutrition, and employment and income generation.
7.    Beginning with the FY88 CEM that focused on poverty and social services
for the poor, an extensive amount of Bank and Indian sector work provided the



3
background for the SSN  adjustment operation.   The adjustment credit
complemented other Bank efforts in assisting India to undertake its
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform program. It was largely in line
with project and sector dialogue that was started in 1987, in family welfare and
nutrition, health, and education, and linked closely with ongoing and proposed
specific investment operations in the social sectors. It is also important to note
that, at the time the operation was developed, it was anticipated that industrial
restructuring would begin to occur. However, it was not at all clear how fast that
restructuring would take place.
8.    The SSN touched predominantly upon nine areas of reform, related to: (a)
financing of the social safety net; (b) coordination and integration of social sector
programs; (c) primary education; (d) health; (e) primary health care; (f) disease
control programs; (g) nutrition; (h) employment and income generation; and (i)
monitoring the social dimensions of adjustment.
9.    The progress of the Social Safety Net Program to be assisted by the credit
was to be assessed against the agreed actions for tranche release, and the policy
framework set out in the Letter of Development Policy provided by GOI to the
Bank.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
10.  IDA continuously reviewed progress in the overall implementation and
achievement of the objectives of the SSN. Progress review missions visited India
in January, May, and December 1993 and another in June 1994 to review the
progress made against the nine agreed-upon areas for action to be taken by GOI
prior to the release of the second tranche. Findings from these missions indicated
that there was consistent progress toward meeting the benchmarks concerning
disease control, primary health care, nutrition, and education, although progress in
addressing issues of program coordination and the medium-term financing of the
social sectors was slower than intended originally, mainly due to the constraints of
carrying out this work across a number of government units. Funds were
provided to the NRF. However, the demands on it which were not part of this
operation, were less than anticipated. In addition, it took longer than expected to
fund and develop counseling, retraining, and employment generation activities.
As progress in these areas was slower than anticipated and because the
government was committed to achieving the agreed actions under the program,
the closing date of the credit was extended from December 31, 1993 to June 30,
1994 and then to August 31, 1994.
11.   Following is an analysis of the progress made under this credit in each of
the areas covered by the SSN adjustment program, as measured against the first
and second tranche release conditions.



4
The First Tranche
12.   The first tranche, which was available upon credit effectiveness, was based
on a number of up-front actions that the government had already taken. The most
significant of these are noted below, by area of program reform.
13.   Related to financing of the social sectors, the government made a
supplementary budget allocation (US$83.3 million) to the primary education,
primary health, communicable disease control and ICDS programs in FY 1992/93
in order to maintain these programs at 1991/92 levels in real terms. The GOI also
committed itself to maintaining the annual budgets for key social sector programs,
at least in real terms to the end of the Eighth Five-Year Plan in 1997. It also made
a conmmitment that all donor assistance for the safety net operation would be
"additional" to plan outlays.
14.   In terms of coordination and integration of social sector programs, the
Eighth Five-Year Plan outlined new strategies and approaches to design,
targeting, funding, and implementation of the social sector programs, which called
for better coordination and integration of services between health, education,
nutrition, water supply and sanitation, and urban and rural employment programs.
A standing Social Sector Coordination Committee was established to develop
new strategies and approaches toward (1) enhancing the convergence of social
services; (2) overcoming duplication and redundancy in the staffing and
management of social sector programs; (3) achieving better targeting of poor
beneficiaries; and (4) ensuring greater cost-effectiveness in the delivery of social
sector programs.
15.   Several measures were taken by the government toward targeting
disadvantaged groups and areas, particularly in the areas of primary education,
primary health care, and nutrition. In education, GOI ranked all districts on the
basis of selected literacy indicators and developed and introduced a strategy for
the intensified development of primary education, giving priority to the districts
that were ranked as educationally backward, as well as to those districts where
total literacy campaigns had been successful resulting in increased demand for
primary education. In primary health care, GOI targeted certain select districts for
intensified implementation of the revised and enhanced primary health care
program. Lastly, for the nutrition sector, GOI introduced strict geographical
targeting of ICDS and selected focal districts for the intensification of services.
16.   Several up-front actions were taken by the government in the area of
primary education. In addition to the targeting measures noted above, GOI also
developed prototype district action plans to be used in the implementation strategy
for the new initiative of a national district-based primary education development
program. Key aspects of the Operation Blackboard program were enhanced to



5
include provision of additional classrooms and teachers per school as well as
flexible program delivery to meet specific local needs.
17.  In the health arena, a review of the National Health Policy of 1982 was
started. The National Development Council established a committee to assess all
aspects of medical and dental education, and to make recommendations for
starting new medical schools in the private sector. Under the Child Survival and
Safe Motherhood Program in identified districts, the GOI started to supplement
the existing provision of drugs and medicines to sub-centers.
18.  In the area of primary health care, the National Development Council
approved an action plan and policy for revamping the National Family Welfare
Program.   The GOI also targeted 90 priority districts for intensified
implementation of the revised and enhanced primary health care program.
19.  In the area of disease control programs, the GOI completed detailed
reviews and action plans to enhance the effectiveness and increase coverage of the
National Leprosy Eradication and AIDS Control programs. In addition, a new
Health Management Information System was developed, and a plan prepared for
its phased introduction in all the states.
20.  In the nutrition sector, the GOI formulated for the first time a National
Nutrition Policy which outlined the government's commitment and strategy for
ensuring the adequate nutritional status of all citizens.  It introduced strict
geographical targeting of ICDS and selected 180 focal districts to receive the
intensification of services. In order to address the problems relating to short-falls
in the number of feeding days, the GOI started the process of devising a
comprehensive strategy towards this end. Towards improving supervision of
ICDS, the GOI issued and made operational a new checklist for supervision,
which involved taking steps to fill vacancies of supervisors, and introduced a
program under which supervisors could improve their mobility in difficult areas.
21.   Important action was also taken in the area of employment and income
generation. The NRF was established and the operational guidelines of the NRF
were formally approved by the cabinet. A business and financial plan for the
NRF for FY92/93 was prepared, approved and implementation started. A major
review of the JRY was completed and implementation of its major
recommendations was started.
22.   Lastly, some steps were taken in the area of monitoring of the social
dimensions of adjustment. The National Sample Survey Organization completed
consumer expenditure surveys covering the 1990-91 period. The GOI established
management information systems to monitor progress in the implementation of
new initiatives in primary education, primary health care and communicable
disease control, and the ICDS program.



6
The Second Tranche
23.   In addition to what the government carried out before credit approval, it
was expected to take several actions prior to the release of the second tranche.
These conditions were met as indicated in the following paragraphs.
24.   In terms of financing of the social sectors and the SSN  program,
satisfactory progress was made. Adequate funds were provided for the NRF,
which is discussed in more detail in the section on Employment and Income
Generation (para. 42). In  FY92/93, the government provided supplementary
funds to each of the social sector budgets in the program as planned, and the
central government provided continuous increases in the budgets for each of the
social sector areas related to the program, from FY92/93 to FY94/95.
Furthermore, the GOI constituted a committee of secretaries to review the
financing of the social sectors. The financing of the social sectors also received
special attention from a standing committee of the Planning Commission, from
the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and from the Ministry of Education.
In conjunction with these efforts, a number of specific actions were taken to
improve the financing of education and focus public expenditure on basic
education. These included: continuing to freeze the level of GOI financing for
university education; the continuation of a high-powered committee of the
Universities Grant Commission to review the financing of centrally-assisted
higher education and the issuing of a major report on this matter; additional
increases in fees at the Institutes of Technology and the Institutes of Management
for the 1993/94 school year over those made in the previous year; and finally,
revision of the Income Tax Act to make charitable contributions to universities
fully deductible. On the health side, progress was disappointing. Although GOI
did manage to raise fees for diagnostic tests at centrally funded tertiary hospitals,
it took no other concrete steps.
25.   Another area for action related to targeting of the social sector programs is
The District Primary Education Program. This program being implemented by
GOI in 42 priority districts, of which 38 have female literacy rates below the
national average. The ICDS program has been expanded since January 1993
largely in 180 target districts, chosen for the share of poor in their population, as
well as share of the population which is scheduled caste and scheduled tribe. The
Family Welfare program has targeted investments in 90 districts with especially
high levels of infant and maternal mortality. The enhanced programs in blindness
control and leprosy have focused on districts with the highest levels of disease
prevalence.
26.   In terms of making mechanisms for district-level coordination of program
implementation operational, the Planning Commission issued guidelines in April
1994 for enhancing the convergence of social services at the village level.



7
Related to this, and in addition to the establishment of the standing Social Sector
Coordination Committee, a Coordination Committee for the social sectors is
being established in each state. At the district level, it was decided that the
Collector/Chief Executive Officers would coordinate social sector activities.
27.   Especially good progress was made in the area of primary education.
Within the framework of agreements reached under the SSN. the Department of
Education established a medium-term investment program aimed at improving
access, retention, and learning achievement in primary education in 100 of India's
473 rural districts during the Eighth Plan, with accelerated expansion in the Ninth
Plan period. For the first phase of the new District Primary Education Program
(DPEP), action plans for 23 districts in 6 states were prepared in detail and
approved by IDA for a credit in the second quarter of FY95. An additional 19
districts in Madhya Pradesh were prepared for financing by the European
Community. The DPEP is also supporting capacity building at state and national
levels to manage the expanding investment program.
28.   Related to health sector policy, an assessment of pharmaceutical
requirements was completed in February 1993. That review found substantial
gaps in the provision of essential pharmaceuticals to primary health care facilities.
The initial batch of pharmaceutical kits under the CSSM project was delivered to
the 90 highest priority districts by March 1994. These pharmaceuticals are to
complement a number of other important investments being undertaken to
improve the maternal and child health program and primary health care.
29.   Another area for action dealt with enhancing the quality of delivery of
primary health care. Detailed facility surveys were completed in all of the
selected districts by February 1993. Here too, the surveys found substantial gaps
in the provision and condition of facilities. On that basis, action plans for
enhancing facilities were drawn up and funds transferred in FY92/93 and
FY93/94 to the states to begin the implementation of the plans. Furthermore, each
of the selected states gave assurances that they would provide the services of a
female physician at selected primary health care centers.  Female doctors were
posted in two states. In the other selected states, training was to be completed and
the posts to be filled in the near future.
30.   Satisfactory progress was made in the area of disease control programs.
The GOI carried out a major review of its program for the control of blindness
with considerable inputs from international and local experts. It adopted an action
plan, developed it into a well-prepared investment proposal, and recently began
implementation of an enhanced blindness control program which is being assisted
by IDA through the Cataract Blindness Control Project (Cr. 2611-IN). The GOI
also completed an intensive review of its tuberculosis program, again, in close
collaboration with international experts from the World Health Organization, the
US Center for Disease Control, and the International Union Against Respiratory



8
Disease. On that basis, it has adopted an action plan and begun to implement an
improved TB program, starting with carefully monitored pilot schemes in several
cities and a small number of rural areas. In line wAth these efforts, a TB Control
Project is being prepared for possible IDA assistance, as planned. The GOI also
reviewed its malaria program and prepared a concept paper for improvement of
that program.
31.   With regards to the nutrition sector, the GOI established an ongoing
information system for monitoring the ICDS program and by April 1993
completed reviews in the selected states of the number of feeding days. Funds
were transferred in FY92/93 to those states for the construction of godowns, as
had been planned. Over FY93/94, the feeding norm of at least 21 days of food per
month had been achieved in 79 percent of the anganwadis in the states of Bihar,
Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, and Rajasthan.
32.    The last area for action related to employment and income generation and
dealt largely with the NRF. The GOI approved the NRF's business and financial
plans for FY93/94 and FY94/95 and allocated the required budgets to finance
these plans. Linked with this, the GOI has developed the institutional capacity of
the NRF to meet substantially its objectives stipulated in the Letter of
Development Policy, including covering the costs of severance pay, retraining and
redeployment of retrenched workers. However, the calls on the NRF were less
than originally anticipated due to slowness in industrial restructuring, which is
outside the scope of this operation.  In addition, the development of the
institutional framework for the NRF took longer than initially thought and
counseling and retraining activities did not begin until December 1993. These
outcomes are assessed in the next section of the report.
33.   The progress of several activities related to the Program  was also
reviewed. These included the new medical and dental manpower training policy;
the actions taken by GOI and the states to ensure that special nutrition programs,
early childhood education centers, and Balwadi nutrition centers are not
duplicated in ICDS blocks; the decisions regarding the location of 100 blocks in
the targeted focal districts identified under the ICDS program; the establishment
of area regeneration councils in key cities that have been affected by industrial
restructuring programs; and the impact of GOI's stabilization and structural
reform and adjustment program on the population, especially the poorer segments,
based on the National Sample Survey 1990/91 and the GOI's program of
monitoring Human Development Indicators.   Little progress was made in
developing a new dental and medical manpower training policy. The activities
related to ICDS were largely carried out. As noted in paragraphs 32 and 45, there
was little progress in developing area regeneration schemes. The Bank and the
government of the Netherlands paid considerable attention, especially toward the
end of the operation, to steps taken to monitor and assess the impact of
stabilization and reform on the poor. The National Council for Applied Economic



9
Research (NCAER) carried out a study on this matter for the government which
was furnished to the Bank and discussed with the author and the Department of
Economic Affairs.
E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME AND SUSTAINABILITY
34.   The program achieved its basic objectives. Several of its key outcomes
appear to be sustainable and the operation should be rated as "satisfactory",
although the long-term sustainability of the NRF is still uncertain. The SSN
program provoked an enhancement of social sector expenditure, the improved
targeting of that expenditure, and the financing and strengthening of the NRF.
The program also helped to prevent any major disruption in the provision of basic
social services as India launched its adjustment and stabilization efforts.
Moreover, in the absence of the SSN, it is possible that GOI might have cut social
spending, as it initially did when it undertook fiscal retrenchment. More detailed
comments are given below on the outcomes of each program area. The comments
below assess the outcomes and sustainability of the policies and actions in each of
the SSN program areas.
35.   Financing of the Social Sectors. The program outcome was significant in
this area. This was demonstrated largely in the government's ability to provide
funds to the various sectors, essentially as planned. This was particularly true
during very severe fiscal retrenchment in FY92/93 and considerable budgetary
stringency in FY93/94 and FY94/95. In addition, the Union government has
continued to provide funds for the SSN-related investments. Moreover, it appears
that the SSN has contributed to important shifts in the composition of expenditure
on the social sectors. However, it must be noted that the SSN did not make the
desired contribution toward the development of a coherent and articulated
approach to the medium-term financing of the social sectors, which was one of the
aims of establishing the review of financing.
36.   Coordination, Integration and Targeting. The steps taken to improve
coordination and integration were noted in paragraphs 14 and 26. These may
prove to have a significant impact on coordination and integration of social sector
programs in the long run. However, to date, these measures are largely on paper
and have not yet been implemented. The government did use the SSN as an
opportunity to improve the targeting of investments in the social sectors. These
enhancements have been continued and there is no reason to believe that they will
not be sustained.
37.   Primary Education.  It appears that an important and probably long
lasting contribution of the SSN is the basis that it set for increasing Indian
investment in primary education. The Bank and bilateral donors had for many
years encouraged GOI to increase its efforts in the area of Basic Education
(particularly since 1987, and with increased pressure since the Jomtien



10
Conference on Education for All in 1990). However, the GOI used the SSN
operation as an opportunity for a major thrust in promoting basic education,
namely the DPEP. The DPEP, which represents an unprecedented effort by India
and by the central government to speed the development of primary education in
India, is quickly becoming an umbrella for both national and international
assistance to the development of primary education in India. It appears that it will
remain the main vehicle in the medium-term for encouraging universalization of
primary education in India. Furthermore, it has been prepared in an exceptionally
participatory manner, with extensive involvement of key Indian educational
policymakers and research institutions, further contributing to its likely
sustainabi lity.
39.   Healthz. The SSN operation was a good catalyst for GOI to move ahead in
this sector. The operation was in line with the thinking at that time of the
Department of Hlealth in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and hence
steps undertaken by the Ministry linked well with those of the SSN. The SSN
operation was seen by GOI as an opportunity to encourage and fund the
development of improved programs in leprosy, blindness, tuberculosis, and
malaria. Investment projects have been launched for leprosy and blindness, and
tuberculosis is nearing the stage of appraisal.  A malaria project is under
preparation. These programs are expected to have long-lasting outcomes in the
future.
40.   Primary Health Care. Although related tranche release conditions were
fulfilled, there were no far reaching outcomes in this area in terms of the
functioning of the Family Welfare Program. The major contribution of the SSN
in this area was to preserve program funding.
41.   Nutrition. The most important contribution of the SSN in nutrition was
that the government used it as a basis for financing the expansion of the ICDS
program. This could be beneficial in the long run if the quality of that program is
improved. Activities undertaken in this sector directly under the SSN are likely to
have only a marginal impact on the long-run quality of ICDS, since they deal with
only two of the several important constraints to program effectiveness.
42.   Employment and Income Generation (NRF). The establishment of the
NRF and development of its institutional capacity must be considered significant
progress in the areas of both industrial restructuring and social safety net
development. However, a number of factors led to delays in carrying out
activities related to the NRF. In addition, before the NRF could address a high
level of demand, it would need to be strengthened in a number of ways, as noted
below.
43.   The calls on the NRF were less than originally anticipated. The business
and financial plan of the NRF was based on uncertain programs for the



I1
restructuring of public enterprises, which were not part of this operation, and
which took place more slowly than anticipated at the time the SSN was
formulated. In the NRF's business and financial plan for FY92/93, for example, it
had been estimated that the National Renewal Grant Fund (NRGF) under the NRF
would compensate about 80,000 workers under the Voluntary Retirement Scheme
(VRS) in that year. As of the end of March 1995, however, the NRGF had
compensated only about 76,916 retrenched workers at 67 public enterprises.
44.   The development of the institutional framework for the NRF's operations
also took longer than initially conceived. The GOI adopted the general guidelines
for the NRF in October 1992. However, the work of the Empowered Committee
was constrained because the detailed schemes and procedures for financing VRS
and employment generation activities could not be finalized. The secretariat of
the NRF was initially weak in terms of staffing and logistics, although it was
reinforced at a later stage. Before the NRF could deal with a larger demand than
it has faced, it would be important to further delegate power to the Empowered
Committee.
45.   Counseling and redeployment activities were not started until December
1993, as noted earlier. At that time, five nodal agencies were selected and
budgeted, including the Gandhi Labor Institute in Ahmedabad, the Confederation
of Indian Industry in Bombay, the Small Industries Service Institute in Indore, the
Associated Chambers of Commerce in Kanpur, and the National Small Industries
Corporation in Calcutta. The slowness in starting these activities was partly due
to the timing of budget allocations for these purposes. By the time counseling and
retraining efforts got underway, about 30,000 workers had already left enterprises
without receiving counseling, training, and redeployment assistance, although no
firm judgment can be made about how many of them would have wished to have
had such opportunities, because many of these were older workers. In addition,
by the time counseling and retraining were made available, many retrenched
workers were no long living in the locations where these services were offered
and could no longer take advantage of them. As of October 1994 about 6,000
outgoing workers had been counseled and about 840 workers had been provided
training in vocational skills and entrepreneurship development. By the end of
March 1995, a total of 9,021 workers were provided counseling, which is now
offered in 48 location in 16 states. A small number of trainees has inevitably
resulted in a high unit training cost. It is expected that the unit cost would be
reduced as more workers join the training. In FY94/95, the Ministry of Industry
instructed each nodal agency to develop a training program to absorb up to 5,000
workers in each region. It appears that this target may be achieved in the state of
Gujarat due to the strong commitment of the state government and strong
institutional capacity of the Gandhi Labor Institute, which is the nodal agency of
NRF in this region. The NRF would need to strengthen both its budgeting
procedures and its links with training if it were to be sustainable in a period of
significant industrial restructuring.



12
46.   Before the NRF could play a larger role, greater attention would also need
to be paid to the design and implementation of employment generation activities
that take into consideration the specific social and economic situations of the
places where industrial restructuring is taking place.  The area regeneration
scheme of Ahmedabad prepared by the government of Gujarat was the only
comprehensive proposal submitted to the Empowered Committee, but this has
been waiting for the approval of the GOI for more than two years now.
47.   Related to its work with government on the NRF, but not a part of the
operation, IDA assisted GOI in identifying financing for technical assistance for
the NRF and related activities. The technical assistance financed by the Japanese
grant of US$377,500 equivalent has contributed significantly to the initial
development of the institutional capacity of the NRF in the areas of counseling,
training, and redeployment assistance activities. However, given the complexity
of the NRF activities and the lack of experience in India, this technical assistance
might have been provided at an earlier stage, even as early as program
preparation. The first part of technical assistance that was provided by a foreign
consultant team could not fully achieve its objectives, as their counterparts, the
nodal agencies delivering these services, were not selected. This, however, helped
the members of the secretariat of the Empowered Committee deepen their
knowledge of complex retrenchment issues. Meanwhile, the second part of
technical assistance, provided by the Gandhi Labor Institute and which started
after the selection of the nodal agencies, has considerably contributed to the
capacity building of the nodal agencies, thanks to the commitment of both the
Institute and other nodal agencies and GOI. Upon the request of the GOI, IDA is
continuing this technical assistance with support of the Swiss Grant Fund. This
assistance should further strengthen the NRF to meet potential future demands.
48.   The sustainability of the NRF eventually rests on whether the government
will continue to undertake public enterprise reform, which in most cases will
entail worker retrenchment. The answer to this question is uncertain. However,
there exists sizable potential demand for the NRF in India. Although the reform
at the central public sector enterprise level has slowed down, several states have
initiated state public enterprise reform. However, given budgetary constraints,
NRF resources would need to be matched with contributions from the states and
the enterprises, if the NRF were to extend its coverage to state public enterprises.
Private enterprises are also adjusting their workforce much more swiftly than
public enterprises and these reforms could benefit from support from the NRF.
Although it would be difficult for the NRF to cover severance costs of the
retrenched workers of the private enterprises, the NRF could help them find new
job opportunities by providing counseling and training and the nodal agencies
established under the NRF are actually extending assistance not only to the
retrenched workers of the public enterprises but also to those of private
enterprises. The NRF could remain a valuable instrument, if the GOI continues to
adjust flexibly its function, institutional framework and funding mechanism to



13
any emerging industrial restructuring in India. In the longer term, however, GOI
will want to explore replacing the NRF with a financially independent and
sustainable mechanism such as a general unemployment insurance system whose
costs are borne mainly by employers and workers.
49.   Related Activities. As noted in paragraph 33, the Bank and government
were to exchange views on progress in a number of areas related to the SSN. The
area regeneration schemes and the monitoring of impact of stabilization and
adjustment on the poor were the most significant of these. Little progress has
been made in developing area regeneration schemes and the impact of such
schemes remains to be seen. The long-run sustainability of monitoring the impact
of economic adjustment on the poor will depend on the work of the National
Sample Survey Organization (NSSO). This organization has the capacity to carry
out and analyze periodic surveys on this matter. However, it would need to focus
greater attention to this topic, ensure that surveys are completed expeditiously,
and ensure that the results of the surveys are available to the public and to
policymakers in a timely manner.
F. COVENANT COMPLIANCE
50.   As noted in paragraph 9, the overall framework of this adjustment
operation was provided by the macroeconomic stabilization and adjustment
program and the Letter of Development Policy for the SSN. The Bank deemed
both of these to have been satisfactorily maintained during the implementation of
the SSN credit. In addition, conditions related to the release of the first and
second tranche were fulfilled, as also described in earlier sections of this report.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
51.   Overall, Bank performance was adequate. From the identification of the
program, the Bank tried to ensure that work on it would be led by a very senior
task manager, because of the program's multisectoral nature and its importance,
particularly during India's adjustment process.  One such task manager was
selected and formulation of the program was started. Later he was replaced by
another seasoned task manager.
52.   To a large extent, Bank staff knowledgeable in their respective sectors
were involved in the SSN. However, partly due to the fast pace of program
development, coordination within the Bank was not as effective as it might have
been for work on nutrition and family planning. In addition, at the time the SSN
was initially developed, there was little experience in the India Department with
activities like the NRF, and staff knowledgeable of finance and industrial
restructuring were asked to take responsibility for the NRF.



14
53.   As implementation and supervision of the SSN progressed, it became
increasingly evident that the SSN was intimately linked with the other social
sector investments assisted by IDA in India. Thus, the Division Chief responsible
for IDA's social sector work in India took over the management of supervision of
the SSN.  In addition, a senior task manager with experience in industrial
restructuring became responsible for the NRF component of the program.
54.   Also in terms of the NRF, it is important to note that Bank assistance went
beyond the scope of regular supervision and the Bank assisted GOI in designing
and implementing measures to strengthen the NRF institutionally. Related to this,
Bank staff helped GOI prepare and implement specific development programs of
the nodal agencies and assisted the nodal agencies in implementing their
respective programs by providing training and technical assistance. The Bank
staff also helped GOI mobilize the Swiss grant required for technical assistance to
the NRF. This assistance is continuing. GOI expressed particular appreciation for
the Bank's help in this area.
55.   Systematic program evaluation was carried out by Bank staff. Program
review missions visited India in January, May, and December 1993 and June
1994.  They worked in all cases and throughout supervision with the co-
financiers. Each mission carried out a joint assessment with government of
progress against tranche release conditions and the equivalent of the final Aide
Memoire was essentially the Board Note authorizing the release of the second
tranche, which was also reviewed jointly by the mission and government.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
56.   Overall borrower performance met agreed-upon expectations. However,
there was a persistent lack of continuity of key staff involved with the program
that slowed some aspects of program implementation. Key people involved with
the Program within the Department of Industry, such as the person responsible for
the conceptual design and establishment of the NRF, and other important officials
within the Department of Economic Affairs moved away before the operation got
underway. In addition, DEA staff working with the program were changed
several times. Furthermore, the secretaries working on various committees were
shifted.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
57.   A number of lessons emerge from a review of this program.
58.   Impact of Adjustment on Social Sectors. As suggested by the Bank's
reviews of adjustment lending, the adjustment process can be used to positively
influence both the amount and the composition of expenditure earmarked for the
social sectors. Rather than cut expenditures earmarked for key social programs



15
during adjustment, the Union government in India has shown how countries can
use the adjustment process to try to positively adjust public expenditure on social
programs, as well as to adjust macroeconomic balances.
58.   The Potential for Long-Run Impacts in the Social Sectors. Despite
initial skepticism within the Bank, the SSN program suggests that operations of
this type can be used to promote medium term developments in the social sectors,
as took place under the program, particularly in the education and health sectors.
59.   Cross-Sectoral Links. In order to maximize the impact of cross-sectoral
operations like the SSN. it is imperative that each sectoral program be embedded
in the ongoing collaboration of the Bank and the client and be linked as well to
specific investment operations to follow. Taking this approach has encouraged
important positive long-term outcomes for the education and health components
of the SSN program. Ongoing work promises similar results for family planning
in India. The same might also be true later for nutrition.
60.   Preparing for Policy Implementation. By the time the SSN operation
closed in August 1994, DPEP I had already been negotiated with IDA and the EC.
Similarly, the disease control agreements were wrapped up in action planning for
the IDA credits. Thus, both of the most successful areas featured this kind of
preparation for action.
61.   Development of Services for Retrenched Workers. Programs meant to
assist retrenched workers should establish institutional mechanisms for
counseling, retraining, and redeployment at an early stage to avoid a mismatch
between the timing of retrenchment and the provision of these important services
to those who have lost their jobs.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.       Achievement of objectives                   Substantial        Partial         Negligible         Not applicable
x               x                 x                     x
Macro economic policies                                         W m                a                       I
Sector policies                                                 W [                                   EL
Financial objectives                            E                                E                    EL
Institutional development                                     j7I E                                   El
Physical objectives                                            EL                E                     ZE
Poverty reduction                               W              EL                E                    EL
Gender issues                                 WT               E                 E                    EL
Other social objectives                                                                               ELRa
Environmental objectives                      E                E                 EL                     m
Public sector management                                                         E                    EL
Private sector development                       L                L              EL 
Other (specify)                               E                 a                E                    E



17
B.      Project sustainability                   Likely        Unlikely        Uncertain
x             x               x
Macro economic policies                    W             W              E
C.      Bank performance                         Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactory    Deficient
x                             x
Identification                                           W xL
Preparation assistance                     W             m               m
Appraisal                                              F W              E
Supervision                                                             Eli
D.      Borrower performance                     Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactory    Deficient
x             x               x
Preparation                                            F W              E
Implementation                                           W mL
Covenant compliance                      E               W              E
Operation (if applicable)                  v            E               El
E.      Assessment of outcome                    Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
unsatisfactory
x             x               x                  x
EL                            EL    EL



18
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                  A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                              TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
FINANCING THE SOCIAL
SAFETY NET
Social Sector Financing Policy    A.L1The GOI has approved the     B.1 The GOI would have:
aggregate levels of additional     completed all approvals to make
resources required to sustain the  adequate funds available to meet
social safety net initiatives to be  the additional costs in FY93-94
undertaken in primary education,   of the revamped and expanded
primary health, disease control    programs in primary education,
and ICDS through the end of the    primary health, disease control
Eighty Five-Year Plan period       and ICDS.
(1997).
A.2-The GOI has approved the
million (US$ 83.3 million)
supplementary budget allocation
to the primary education, primary
health, communicable disease
control and ICDS programs in FY
1992/93 in order to maintain these
programs at 1991/92 levels in real
terms.
A.1 The GOI has approved the
the annual budgets for the specific
Social Safety Net programs in
primary health, primary
education, communicable disease
control, and ICDS would be
maintained at least in real ternis to
the end of the Eight-Five-Year
Plan in 1997.
A14_ The GOT has decided that all
donor assistance for the Social
Safety net will be considered as
"net additionality" to Plan
outlays.
A. The GOI has decided that all    B.2 The GOI has decided that all
Committee of Secretaries           completed the review of the
including the Secretaries of the   financing of the social sectors;
Planning Commission, and           and started implementation of
Departments of Finance,           the recommendations with
Expenditure, Economic Affairs,     particular respect to ensuring the



19
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                             TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
Health, Family Welfare,           timely availability of funds for
Education and Women and Child,    the Program and the enhanced
to review the share of public     mobilization of non-budgetary
expenditures to be devoted to the  resources for tertiary education
social sectors during the Eighth  and tertiary health care.
Five-Year Plan, methods of
mobilizing additional non-
budgetary resources for highier
education and tertiary health, and
mechanisms for progressively
increasing the proportion of non-
budgetary support for higher and
technical education and tertiary
health care.
Mobilization of Non-           A.6 In FY 1992, the GOI
budgetary resources and cost   increased significantly (between
recovery.                      500-1200%) tuition and other fees
at the apex higher education
institutions such as the Indian
Institutes of Management (IIM)
and Indian Institute of
Technology. Tuition fees have
also been increased at
Polytechnics which are operated
by the States. Fees have been
increased by about 100% in the
pay wards of centrally-funded
tertiary level hospitals like the All
India Institute of Medical
Sciences ( AIIMS).
COORDINATION AND
INTEGRATION OF SOCIAL
SECTOR PROGRAMS
Program Coordination Policy    A.7 The Eiohth Five-Year Plan
(1992-1997) approved by the
National Development Council
(NDC) of which all states are
members, includes new strategies
and approaches to design,
targeting, funding and the
implementation of social sector
programs. It calls for among
other things, better coordination
and integration of services
between health, education,
nutrition, water supply and
sanitation, and urban and rural
employment programs.



20
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                            TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
A.8 The GOI has established a    B.3 The GOI would have: for
Standing Social Sector           each component of the Program
Coordination Committee chaired   (primary education, primary
by the Secretary (Coordination)  health care, disease control and
and including the Secretaries of  ICDS), selected districts for
Health, Family Welfare,          priority implementation of the
Education, Women and Child, and    Program, using indicators
the Chief Secretaries of the States    relevant to the concerned
of Kerala, Maharashtra, Madhva   component such as educational
Pradesh and West Bengal to       backwardness, maternal
develop new strategies and       mortality rates, infant mortality
approaches to (a) the convergence    rates and the incidence of
of social services; and (b)      poverty and endemic diseases;
overcoming duplication and       operationalized mechanisms for
redundancy in the staffing and   district-level coordination of
management of social sector       Program implementation in the
programs; (c) achieving better   selected districts including
targeting of poor beneficiaries:  defining the responsibility of the
and (d) ensuring greater cost-   district administration and
effectiveness in the delivery of  issuing instructions for linking
social sector programs.          implementation of the Program
to district development plans.
PRIMARY EDUCATION
Sectoral Policy               A.9 The National Policy on
Targeting of resources and     Education of 1986 has been
programs to disadvantaged     revised in 1992 to introduce
groups and regions.            changes which emphasize the
Enhancing the quality of      priority to universalizing primary
service delivery.              education through disaggregated
Reorientation of financial    target setting and decentralized
resources.                     planning, better targeting of
females and scheduled caste and
scheduled tribe students;
improved quality; and the
provision of adequate budgetary
resources.
Targeting of disadvantaged     A. 10 The GOI has ranked all
groups and regions             districts in the country on the
basis of literacy rates, female
enrollments, and the demand for
primary education. The GOI has
also developed and introduced a
strategy for the intensified
development of primary education
giving priority to the districts
which are ranked as educationally
backward as well as districts
where total literacv campaigns
have been successful resulting in
increased demand for primary



21
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                             TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
education.
A.1 I GOI has developed           B.4 GOI would have: completed
prototype District Action Plans to    detailed actions plans for
be used in the implementation     intensified implementation of the
strategy for the new initiative of a  primary education component of
National district-based Primary   the Program in the selected
Education Development Program     districts, transferred to each of
the selected districts, the first
A.12 The revised National Policy    installment of funds required for
on Education gives priority to: (a)    the implementation of the action
quality improvement, retention    plans; and caused the
and learning achievement over     appointment by concerned
expansion; (b) establishing       authorities, of the key
Minimum Levels of Learning        management staff for the
(MLL) to streamline the           intensified primary education
curriculum and focus on basic     program in the selected districts
competencies; and (c) cost        and States.
effective decentralized planning
and management. The GOI has
already started implemenitation of
these changes.
A.13 GOI has changed key
aspects of the Operation
Blackboard Program and is
implementing an enhanced
program which calls for the
provision of additional
classrooms and teachers per
school as well as flexible program
delivery to meet specific local
needs.
A.14 The GOI has developed
Management Informnation
Systems to monitor progress of
primary education programs
especially as regards total new
enrollments and the additional
enrollments of girls.
Reorientation of financial     A.15 GOI has given priority to
resources                      the financing of primary
education. An additional Rs.
26,000 million (US$ 880.0
million) has been added to the
Center's Eighth Five-Year Plan
total educational allocation. Rs.
28.800 million (USS 960.0
million) is dedicated to primary
education. This is an increase for



22
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                             TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
primary education by a factor of
four over allocations during the
Seventh Five-Year Plan period
(1985-1990).
A.16 The States have also
increased their Eighth Five-Year
Plan allocations for primary
education by a factor of three over
Seventh Five-Year Plan
allocations.
A.17 Under the Eighth Five-Year
plan. the GOI has held almost
constant in nominal terms,
allocations to higher education.
A.18 GOI has developed and
piloted the use of new funding
mechanisms to ensure that the
additional resources required for
the national district-based
Primary Education Development
Program is successfully passed on
to the targeted priority districts.
HEALTH
Sector Policy                  A.19 A review of the National
Health Policy of 1982 has started
with the objective of (a)
establishing more appropriate
goals and targets re: Health for
All by 2000; (b) examining the
role of Center and States in the
provision of health services; and
(c) methods to identify those
areas where the center will remain
active more cost-effective.
A.20 The National Development
Council has established a
Committee including the Chief
Ministers of five States and the
Ministers of Finance, Human
Resources Development, Health
and Family Welfare to assess all
aspects of medical and dental
education including the present
and future availability of medical
manpower, and to make
recommendations for starting new
medical schools in the private



23
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                             TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
sector and/or expanding existing
intake capacity.
A.21 The Bureau of Planning in
the Department of Health has
been strengthenied to create a
health policy and economics
planning capacity.
A.22 The GOI has started to       B.5 The GOI would have:
supplement the existing provision  completed the assessment of
of drugs and medicines to sub-    pharmaceutical requirements in
centers by providing additional   all of the districts targeted for the
quantities of drugs and medicines  implementation of the revised
to the extent of about Rs. 4,000  and expanded primary health
per subcenter per year under the  care program; and delivered the
Child Survival and Safe           initial batch of pharmaceuticals
Motherhood Program in identified    in kits developed under the Child
districts.                        Survival and Safe Motherhood
Primary Health Care                                               Program to selected districts.
Sectoral Policy                A.23 The National Development
Council (NDC) has approved an
Action Plan and Policy for
Revamping the National Familv
Welfare Program which includes
(a) improving the quality and
outreach of family welfare
services in rural areas; (b)
adopting a differential strategy for
districts in the implementation of
the revamped program; (c)
focusing attention on the
backward districts of the country:
(d) enhancing the provision for
safe motherhood interventions
especially in districts where
maternal mortality rates are above
the national average.
A.24 GOI has statted the
implementation of its new policy
for the operationalization of the
rural health system which
includes health sub-centers and
Primary Health Centers (PHCs).
The new emphasis and strategy
would be on: (a) the provision of
supplementary facilities where
required, (b) the training of
medical and para-medical staff,
and (c) increased provisioni of



24
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                            TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
materials as may be required.
Targeting of disadvantaged    A.25 GOI has selected on the
groups and areas              basis of higher than average
infant, young child and maternal
mortality, 90 districts for
intensified implementation of the
revised and enhanced primary
health care program.
Enhancing the quality of      A.26 GOI has developed an         B.6 The GOI would have:
service delivery.              implementation strategy for the  completed detailed facility
provision of the enhanced primary    surveys and detailed action plans
health and safe motherhood       based on the surveys, for
interventions in the 90 targeted  implementing the revised and
districts including the provision of    expanded primary health care
special MCH facilities, equipment    program in the selected districts;
and the training of staff.       transferred to each of the
selected districts, the first
installment of funds required for
the implementation of the action
plans; and obtained from each of
the States in which the selected
districts are located, an assurance
that it shall provide, within a
stipulated time frame, the
services of at least one female
doctor at each primary health
center which has been identified
for enhanced safe motherhood
facilities in the selected districts.
A.27 GOI has started
implementation of the new birth-
based approach to determining
work routines and the training of
health workers and revised
instructions have been issued to
female health workers to focus on
and give priority attention to
pregnant and lactating mothers.
DISEASE CONTROL
PROGRAMS
Enhancing the quality of       A.28 GOI has completed detailed  B:7 GOI would have: completed
service delivery              reviews and Action Plans to       detailed reviews of the
enhance the effectiveness and    effectiveness of its programs for
increase the coverage of the     the control of blindness, malaria
National Leprosy Eradication and  and tuberculosis; adopted a
AIDS control programs primarily  national action plan for the
through more appropriate         control of tuberculosis; and
technologies, approaches and      adopted action plans for the
funding.                         control of blindness and malaria



25
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                             TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
in designated States.
A.29 A new Health Management
Information System has been
developed, and a plan prepared
for its phased introduction in all
the States.
NUTRITION
Sector Policy                  A.30 The GOI has formulated for
the first time, a National Nutrition
Policy which outlines the
Government's commitment and
strategy for ensuring the adequate
nutritional status of all citizens.
A.31 GOI has taken action to
avoid duplication, and to provide
Early Childhood Education
Centers only in blocks where
ICDS is not being implemented.
GOI has also started a review of
the coverage and efficacy of
State-funded Special Nutrition
Programs (SNPs) in relationship
to ICDS.
Targeting of disadvantaged     A.32 GOI has introduced strict
groups and areas               geographical targeting of ICDS
and has already selected 180 focal
districts for the intensification of
services. The districts have been
ranked on criteria including the
poverty ratio, the concentration of
scheduled castes and tribes, and
the crude birth rate.
Enhancing the quality of       A.33 GOI has developed a
service delivery               strategy for the provision of
intensified inputs to 200 blocks in
the 1 80 focal districts through (a)
increasing the outreach to areas
and target groups who remain
uncovered under existing
programs (in-filling); (b)
replenishing worn out articles,
provision of additional facilities
and equipment; and (c) better
training and supervision.
A.34 The National Institute of
Public Cooperation and Child
Development (NIPCCD) has



26
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                             TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
completed a comprehensive
national evaluation of the ICDS
programn.
A.35 The GOI has accepted the
findings of the NIPCCD
evaluation and started
implementation of the key
recommendations which include:
(a) Increasing honoraria to grass-
root workers. GOI has increased
the honoraria bv 25% for
Anganwadi workers and 100% for
helpers.
(b) The introduction of a new
strategy for the synchronized
delivery of services at the
Anganwadi level. Actions in this
area have been taken by the
Departments of Health, Rural
Development. Urban
Development. Education, Welfare
and Food.
(c) Addressing the problem        B.8 The GOI would have:
relating to short falls in number of    completed state-wide reviews in
feeding days. The GOI is in the   Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa,
process of devising a             Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and
comprehensive strategy but has    West Bengal of shortfalls in
already increased the financial   required feeding days under the
norm allowance for                ICDS program; commenced
supplementary nutrition per       construction of godowns in the
beneficiary. The States have      selected States where logistics
undertaken district and block     has been identified as the
specific investigations of the    problem in the timely and
reasons for the shortfalls. The   adequate supply of food; and
GOI plans further to construct    achieved the feeding norm under
food storage godowns-cum Child    the ICDS program in at least
Development Project Officer       50% of the anganwadis under the
(CDPO) offices in selected        ICDS program in each of the
remote tribal hill and difficult  following States: Bihar, Madhya
areas to overcome some of the     Pradesh, Orissa, and Rajasthan.
logistical problems which lead to
the feeding shortfalls.
(d) Improving basic and refresher
training. Aniual Training plans
for ICDS personnel have been
reviewed and updated and State
compliance with training targets
are now linked to the release of
funds by the Center.
(e) Improving supervision. GOI
has taken a number of steps to



27
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                 A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                             TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
reinforce the supervision ratios of
I supervisor to 17 Anganwadis in
tribal areas; I supervisor to 20
Anganwadis in rural areas; and I
supervisor to 25 Anganwadis in
urban areas. The GOI has now
issued and operationalized a new
checklist for supervisions; taken
steps to fill vacancies of
supervisors; and introduced a
program under which supervisors
can purchase mopeds to improve
their mobility in difficult areas.
(f) Improving program
monitoring. GOI has introduced a
new computerized Management
Information System that enables
the Department of Women and
Children Development to
effectively monitor the quantity
and quality of ICDS performance.
A.36 The GOI has taken steps to
ensure that CARE, and World
Food Program food contributions
as well as its wheat-based
nutrition program is used
exclusively for the ICDS
program. This contribution
covers approximately 11 million
of the 17 million ICDS
beneficiaries.
EMPLOYMENT AND
INCOME GENERATION
National Renewal Fund:         A.37 The Government has
Targeting of groups and        established the National Renewal
areas/impacted by the          Fund to facilitate the industrial
industrial reform program.     sector reform program and to
mitigate the negative impact on
workers who have been affected
by the restructuring and
revitalization programs being
undertaken in Public Sector
Enterprises (PSEs).
A.3 The Operational Guidelines
of the NRF have been formally
approved by the Cabinet and the
initial meetings of the
Empowered Authority have been
held.



28
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                  A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                              TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
A.39 A Business and Financial      B.9 The GOI would have: made
Plan for the NRF for FY 92/93      satisfactory progress in the
has been prepared, approved and    implementation of the NRF
implementation started. The Plan   Business and Financial Plan
covers the Sources and projected   during FY92-93; approved the
Uses of Funds with particular      FY93-94 Business and Financial
attention to the support to be     Plan for the NRF; and allocated
provided to (a) the VoLintary      the necessary funds for the NRF
Retirement Scheme and the          account consistent with the
number of workers accessing this   projected requirements of the
facility; (b) negotiated           FY93-94 Business and Financial
compensation packages for PSEs     Plan.
and the projected number of
workers who are to be affected;
and (c) projected expenditures on
counseling and retraining of
affected workers as well as for
area regeneration schemes to
stimulate new employment
opportunities.
Improving the efficiency and    A.40 The GOI (Planning
effectiveness of income-        Commission) has completed a
generation programs             major review of the Jawahar
Rozgar Yojana (JRY) and started
implementation of the major
recommendations
A.41 The GOI has increased
funding to JRY in FY 1992/93
through the National Renewal
Fund.
A.42 GOI has revised and issued
new guidelines for the Nehru
Rozgar Yojana (NRY); and
additional provisions have been
included in the NRF 1992/93
Business and Financial Plan to
support employment generation
activities under the NRY
especially for targeting
beneficiaries and urban areas
which have been impacted by
industrial restructuring.
MONITORING THE                  A.43 The National Sample
SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF            Survey Organization (NSSO) has
ADJUSTMENT                      completed consumer expenditure
surveys covering the 1990-91
period.



29
Table 2: Program Policy Matrix
AREA OF REFORM                   A. MEASURES ALREADY    B. ACTIONS TO BE
TAKEN                               TAKEN PRIOR TO
SECOND TRANCHE
RELEASE
A.44 The GOI has established
management information systems
to monitor progress in the
implementation of new initiatives
in primary education (A. 15),
primary health care and
communicable disease control
(A.29); and ICDS (A.35).



30
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
Table 3: Related Bank Loans or Credits
FAMILY WELFARE
Credit No.                     312-IN
Titlk                          First Population Project
Year of approval               1972
Eurpose                        To support the family welfare program in five districts of Karnataka and six
districts of Uttar Pradesh
Status                         Credit Closed June 30, 1980
Comments               :       PCR 6/81; PPAR 1/82
Credit No.             :       981-IN
Title                          Second Population Project
Year of approval               1980
To support the family welfare program in six districts of Uttar Pradesh and
three districts of Andhra Pradesh
Stahls:                        Credit Closed March 31, 1988
Comments                       PCR 1/90; PPAR 8/90
Credit No.                     1426-IN
niLe                           Third Population Project
Year of approyal       :       1984
Purpose             :       To support the family welfare program in six districts of Karnataka and four
districts of Kerala
Status                         Credit Closed March 31, 1992
Comments                       PCR 8/93
Credit No.                     1623-IN
iltk                           Fourth Population Project
Year of approval       :       1985
Purpose                :       To support the family welfare program in the state of West Bengal
Credit Closed March 31, 1994
Comments                       PCR 6/94



31
Table 3: Related Bank Loans or Credits (Continued)
Credit No.                     1931-IN
Title                          Fifth (Bombay/Madras) Population Project
Year of approval               1988
Purpose                :      To support the family welfare program in the cities of Bombay and Madras
Status                 :       Under implementation
Comments                       NGOs and private medical practitioners are included in the project
Credit No.                     2057-IN
Title                  :       Sixth (First National Family Welfare Training and Systems Development)
Population Project
Year of approval               1989
Pturpose                      To support the family welfare program in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Andhra
Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh
S-tatus                :       Under implementation
Comments               :       Focus on strengthening of training aspects of the program on a statewide basis
Credit No.                     2133-IN
l'itle                        Seventh (Second National Family Welfare Training and Systems Development)
Population Project
Year of approval               1990
Purpose                :      To support the family welfare program in the states of Punjab, Haryana,
Gujarat and Bihar
Under implementation
Comments               :       Focus on strengthening of training aspects of the program on a statewide basis
Credit No.                     2394-IN
Title                          Family Welfare (Urban Slums) Project (Population 8)
Year of approval               1991
Purpose                       To help the Government of India increase the supply of family welfare service
in the slum populations of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal and Delhi
Status                 :       Under implementation
Comments               :       Focus on reduction of fertility and maternal and infant mortality rates among
slum populations by improving the outreach of family welfareservices,
upgrading the quality of family welfare services through extensive and ongoing
personnel training, expanding the demand for health services through expanded
information, education and communication activities and improving the
administration and management of health care agencies
Credit No.                     2300-IN
Ui&L                   :       Child Survival and Safe Motherhood Project
Year of approval               1992
Purpose                .      To support the Government of India's Maternal and Child Health Program
Status                 :      Under implementation



32
Table 3: Related Bank Loans or Credits (Continued)
Comments                      Focus on child survival, safe motherhood (prevention of maternal morbidity
and mortality) and effective service delivery
Credit No.                    2630-IN
IiJk                          Family Welfare (Assam, Rajasthan and Karnataka) Project (Population 9)
Year of approval              1994
Purpose               :       To support the family welfare program in the states of Assam, Rajasthan and
Karnataka
St~atusa              :       Approved by the Board on June 16, 1994
Comments              :       Focus on reduction of fertility and maternal and childhood mortality by
strengthening seravice delivery including extension and upgrading of
infrastructure, strengthening demand generation activities through improved
information, education and communication planning and activities,
strengthening program management and implementation capacity, and
improving service quality including training, improvement of program
logistics, promotion of private sector involvement, and funding for innovative
schemes
NUTRITION
Credit No.            :       1003-IN
Tite                  :       First Tamil Nadu Integrated Nutrition Project
YVear of approval     :       1980
P:urose               :       To help the state of Tamil Nadu: (a) halve malnutrition among children under
four years of age; (b) reduce infant mortality by 25%; (c) reduce vitamin A
deficiency in the under fives from about 27 % to about 5 %; and (d) reduce
anaemia in pregnant and nursing women from about 55% to about 20%.
SAaflMa               :       Credit closed, March 31, 1989
Comments              :       PCR 12/90
Credit No.            :       2158-IN
ii:k                          Tamil Nadu 11
Year of aproyal               1990
Purpose               :       To support the state government of Tamil Nadu's goal of improving the
nutrition and health status of children 0-72 months of age, and of pregnant and
nursing women.
SIaIus                :       Under implementation.
Comments              :       Focus is to reduce severe malnutrition among children 6-36 months by 50% in
new project blocks and 25 % in TINP I blocks, increase the proportion of
children 6-36 months of age in normal nutrition status by 50% in new and 35%
in existing project areas, and contribute to a reduction in infant mortality to 55
per 1,000 live births and to a 50% reduction in the incidence of low birth
weight



33
Table 3: Related Bank Loans or Credits (Continued)
Credit No.             :      2173-IN
Title                          First Integrated Child Development Services Project
Year of approval               1990
Purpose                       To support the objective of the Central and Andhra Pradesh and Orissa state
governments of improving the nutrition and health status of children under 6
years of age, with special emphasis on those 0-3 years old, and pregnant and
nursing women.
Status                 :       Under implementation.
Comments               :       Project is to improve the nutrition and health status of tribal, drought-prone
and otherwise disadvantaged population groups in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa.
Credit No.             :       24700-IN
Title                  :       ICDS II
Year of approval               1992
Purpose                        To assist the governments of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh, improve the nutrition
and health status of children under 6 years of age, with special emphasis on
those 0-3 years old, and pregnant and nursing women.
Status                 :       Under implementation.
Comments               :       Project beneficiaries would be among India's poorest people, many of whom
are tribal. In addition to improving the nutrition and health status of children,
the project would also help to improve the capacity of the ICDS to deliver
services in the two states, including among tribal people, over the longer term.
EDUCATION
Credit No.                    2008-IN
Title                  :       Vocational Training Project
Year of approval               1989
Purpose                :      To support the Ministry of Labor's (MOL) long-term program to modernize
and restructure the National Vocational Training System (NVTS).
Status                 :       Under implementation.
Comments               :      The main objectives of the project are to (a) improve the quality and efficiency
of basic craftsman and apprenticeship training; (b) expand and diversify the
advanced training programs; and (c) strengthen the NVTS planning and
management capacity. Participation of women are to be increased in each of
these areas.
Credit No.             :      2130-IN
Titl                   :       Technician Education Project I
Year of approval       :       1990
Purpose                       To support the National Policy on Education, and more specifically, the Ten
Year Technician Education Investment Program (1990-99) in the states of



34
Table 3: Related Bank Loans or Credits (Continued)
Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Orissa, Rajasthan and
Uttar Pradesh.
S1aIus                 :       Under implementation.
Comments               :      The project is expected to provide India's industrial sector with technicians of
suitable quality in the areas of civil, mechanical, and electrical engineering, as
well as in computer and electronics technology and in other required new and
emerging areas.
Credit No.                    2223-IN
Tih:                           Technician Education Project II
Year of appval                 1991
PuR,=ose               :      To support the National Policy on Education, and more specifically, the Ten
Year Technician Education Investment Program (1990-99) in the states of
Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab,
Tamil Nadu and West Bengal and the Union Territory of Delhi.
Under implementation.
Comment_                       The project is a second phase of IDA's commitment to support the National
Polytechnic System and the Ten-Year Investment Program. It is identical to
the First Technician Education Project and has the same major objectives
CreditLg .                     2509-IN
Itii:                          U.P. Basic Education Project
Year of approval       :       1993
Pu=se:                        To improve the level of literacy among the citizens of UP, and hence their
productivity and social welfare.
Under implementation.
Comments               :      The project is a first investment in a longer-term program that is expected to
create an institutional framework for cost-effective policy implementation in
basic education.
Credit No:                    2661-IN
Ili:                           District Primary Education Project
Year of aproyal                1994
Purpos                        To support the GOI District Primary Education Program in the states of
Assam, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, to build
national, state and district managerial and professional capacity for sustainable
primary education development.
Status                 :      Project was signed on December 22, 1994.
Comments                      The project will support district-based programs aimed at decreases in dropout,
increases in learning achievement, and improved access to primary education
in the project states. Priority will be given to female and SC/ST students
through both targeting and special strategies, and to enhanced community
participation.



35
Table 3: Related Bank Loans or Credits (Continued)
HEALTH
Credit No.             :       2350-IN
Title                          National AIDS Control Project
Year of approval       :       1992
To support the Government's efforts in controlling the HIV/AIDS epidemic in
order to preserve human capital development and to minimize the reversal of
health improvements in the States and Union Territories of India.
Status                 :       Under implementation.
Comments               :       The project constitutes a start-up investment to launch expanded preventive
activities in the control of HIV transmission. Its ultimate objective is to slow
the spread of HIV in India, so as to reduce future morbidity, mortality and
impact of AIDS.
Credit No.                     2528-IN
Tile                   :       National Leprosy Elimination Project
Year of appryaL        :       1993
Purpose                :      To eliminate leprosy as a public health problem in India by the turn of the
century by reducing the disease prevalence from 2.4 per 1,000 to 0.1 per
1,000 and to reduce the impact of leprosy disability.
Status                 :       Under implementation.
Comments               :       The project is expected to enable India to eliminate leprosy as a national public
health problem by the year 2000. It will eliminate the disease in 2.2 million
people with leprosy and in 1.8 million new cases. It will reach
underprivileged communities and benefit an estimated 2.4 million people below
the GOI poverty line. It is expected to benefit about 1.6 million women.
Credit No.                     261 1-IN
Titl                   :       Cataract Blindness Control Project
Year of approval       :       1994
Purpose                :      To upgrade the quality of cataract surgery, expand services to underprivileged
sectors, and reduce the backlog of untreated cataracts in the states of Uttar
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil
Nadu and Orissa.
Status                         Under implementation.
Comments               :       The project is expected to help eliminate most of the cataract blindness backlog
by bringing the blindness prevalence down by 50% in the seven project states.



36
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
Table 4. Program Timetable
Step In Project Cycle     Date Actual/Estimate
Identification (Executive  May 1992
Project Summary)
Preparation                May 1992
Appraisal                  September 1992
Negotiations               November 1992
Board presentation         December 17, 1992
Signing                    December 17, 1992
Effectiveness              December 21, 1992
Project completion         June 1994
Credit closing             August 31. 1994



37
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
Table 5: Credit Disbursements - Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(Millions of US Dollars)
FY93      FY94      FY95
Appraisal estimate          250.0     250.0        0.0
Actual                      244.6        0.0    259.6
E Note: The credit was fully disbursed by October 20, 1994.



38
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
Table 6: Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs
Number of staff weeks
Stage of project cycle             Total    FY92      FY93       FY94      FY95
Through appraisal                  114.2     55.4       58.8       0.0       0.0
Appraisal to Board                 38.6       0.0       38.6       0.0       0.0
Board to effectiveness     (Not available)       -         -          -         -
Supervision                         57.4      0.0      29.7       23.1       4.6
Completion                          10.0      0.0        0.0       0.0      10.0
TOTALS                            220.2      55.4      127.1      23.1       14.6
Notes: Number of staff weeks on completion is an estimate.
Staff week data from board to effectiveness not captured in the work program system.



39
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
Table 7: Bank Resources - Missions
Specialized staff skills
Month/Year              Number of persons         Days in field          represented
THROUGH APPRAISAL AND EFFECTIVENESS
May-June/92                     7                      14           Ec (3), F (2), N, Edn
July-Aug/92                     8                      16           Ec, F (3), N, H, LE, Edn
Sept-Oct/92                     1                     25            Ec
SUPERVISION
Jan -Feb/93                     2                      19           Ec, F
April-May/93                    7                      7            Mgr, F (2), E, Edn, N, Ph
Aug/93                           1                     13           F
Nov-Dec/93                      5                      10           Mgr, F, H, Ph
June 1994                       2                                   Mgr, F
Specialized staff skills
Mgr:  Task Manager
Ec:    Economist
F:     Finance
N:     Nutrition Specialist
Edn:   Education
H:     Health
LE:    Labor Economist
PH:    Public Health



40
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
PART III. APPENDICES
APPENDIX 1(a): NRF 1994-95 Budget in Millions of US Dollars
Ministry/Dept.                                      1993-94 Budget            1993-94 Revised           1994-95 Budget
1. Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)
Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers                          41.50                     42.00                     27.00
Dept. of Chemicals & Petrochemicals
Ministry of Chemicals & Fertilizers                          58.50                     50.00                     80.00
Dept. of Fertilizers
Ministry of Civil Aviation & Tourism                          8.73                      8.73                      0.00
Dept. of Tourism
Ministry of Civil Suppliers, Consumer                        14.00                      12.00                     5.00
Affairs & Public Distribution
Ministry of Defense                                          10.00                      10.00                    18.00
Ministry of Food Processing Industries                        2.00                      2.00                      1.00
Ministry of Industry                                        136.00                     161.00                   107.00
Dept. of Heavy Industry
Ministry of Mines                                            29.95                     82.48                     55.00
Ministry of Steel                                            41.00                     36.00                     28.00
Ministry of Surface Transport                                70.00                     70.00                     49.00
Surface Transport
Ministry of Surface Transport                                15.00                      12.00                     6.00
Ports, Light houses & Shipping
Ministry of Textiles                                        261.32                     192.32                   119.00
Ministry of Urban Development                                 0.00                      6.42                      0.00
Urban Development & Housing
Ministry of Urban Development                                 0.00                      10.00                     0.00
Public Works
Ministry of Water Resources                                  12.00                      12.00                     0.00
Dept. of Atomic Energy                                        0.00                      5.00
Ministry of Industry                                          0.00                     140.05
Dept. of Industrial Development                                                                                 150.00
State PSUs
SUB-TOTAL                                                   700.00                    852.00                    650.00
II. Counselling, Retraining & Area
Regeneration Schemes
Ministry of Industry                                          0.00                     46.40                     48.00
Dept. of Industrial Development
Ministry of Industry                                          0.00                      2.00                      0.50
Dept. of Small Scale Industries...
Ministry of Labour                                            0.00                      0.00                      1.50
SUB-TOTAL                                                     0.00                     48.40                     50.00
UNALLOCATED                                                   0.00                     119.60                     0.00
GRAND TOTAL                                                 700.00                    900.40                    700.00



41
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SOCIAL SAFETY NET SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
(Credit 2448-IN)
APPENDIX 1(b): Progress of Implementation of VRS in Central Public Sector
Undertakings Being Funded from NRF
Dept./PSls                                       Year                                                   Age Profile
92-93                                   Total no.
(as oJ                                  WForkers      Ulp to 35      35-50
6/30'94)       93-94        94-95      Availing lRS    years           vears       Over 50 years
D/o C & PCS
IDPL                                     459           454            -            913          11             259             643
SSPL                                     130            64            4            198           3              60              135
Bengal Immunity                          132            10            -            142           -              30             112
HIL                                       68            38            3            109           1              26               82
BCPL                                      63            84            -            147           3              51              93
M/o FPI
FPIL                                      14            77           67            158           -             104               54
M/o Textiles
NTC (DPR)                              1,241           595            -          1,836        258            1,066             512
NTC (MP)                               3,537           779            -          4,316          71           2.656            1,589
NTC (UP)                               4.154          1.412           -          5.566          34           1,924            3,608
NTC (SM)                               2.759           919            -          3.678        372            1,936            1,370
NTC (NM)                               2.500          1.180           -          3.680        201            1,731            1,748
NTC (Guj)                              5,529          1,399           -          6,928        742            3,712            2,474
NTC (APKKM)                            1,441           707            -          2,148         193           1,108             847
NTC (TNP)                                145            42            -            187           6             102               79
NTC (WBABO)                            2,454           309            -          2,763         196             948            1,619
TOM Bombay                             1.628          1,132           -          2,760         102           1.382            1,276
NTC(HJC)                                   -             II           -             II           -               5                6
Elgin
Mills                                  1,000         1,859         205           3.064           -             959           2,105
Cawnpore
T'extiles                                384           326           10            720           -             223             497
NJMC                                      69           598            -            667           1             194             497
Jute Corporation
of India                                  24            15            -             39           -             223             472
M/o Steel
HSCL                                    710          1,592          Nil          2,302           8             487             215
ERL                                      138           254            -            392         26              234              132
Bird Group of Companies
619         1.115           86          1.820         99              312            1,409
M/o Mines
EGML                                       -          753*            -            753           -                -               -
MECL                                       -          175*            -            175           -                -               -
HCL                                        -         2,091            -          2,091          14           1,019            1,058



42
Dept./PSUs                                    Year                                                Age Profile
92-93                                  Total no.
(as of                                 Workers     Up to 35      35-50
6/30/94)       93-94        94-95       Availing      years        years         Over 50
k'RS                                   years
M/o Water Resources
RPNMO                                  44           698         168           910        152            418             340
D/o Fertilizers
PP & CL                                30            32           1            63          -             35              28
PDIL                                  210            71           3           284                        68             216
FCI                                   587           139         49            775         10            196             569
HFC                                   225           254          12           491          7            205             279
Mlo Civil Supplies                     14            77          67           158          -            104              54
HVOC                                     -          453           -           453        166            167             120
M/o Defense
BEML                                     -          555           -           555         11            155             389
M/o Surface Transport
HSL                                   606            69           6           681         12            351             318
DTC                                      -        4,403           -         4,403        275           2,649          1,479
HDPEL                                 182           345          22           549          -            151             398
CIWTCL                                   -          545          15           560          6             150            402
D/o Heavy Industries
BOGL                                   14             8           -            22          -               3             19
HCL                                    39             -           -            39          1               7             31
HEC                                 2,036        1,328*          75         3,439          -            407           1,704
MAMC                                  313           716           -         1,029          9            138             882
BYN                                  1,019          301           -         1,320          -            642             678
NEPA                                  120           120          56           296          3             35             258
ILK                                   125           477           -           602         18            332             252
NBCIL                                 155            30           -           185          6             117             62
TCIL                                  288          408*           -           696          -             39             249
NIDC                                   15           11           -            26           -              5             21
EPI                                      -            I           -             I          -               I              I
NIL                                    86            97           -           183          -             40             143
BLC                                      -            6           -             6          1              3               2
CoI                                   200            93           -           293          2             104            187
SIL                                      -           29         38             67          3             27              37
HPC                                   198           320           -           518         27            253             238
HMT                                      -          388           -           388          1             20             367
RIC                                   356           205           -           561          1            191             369
HPF                                   139            17           -           156          -             29             127
TAFCO                                 180            64           -           244          3             91             150
BBUNL                                1,193          762           -         1,955          9            656           1,290
D/o Tourism
ITDC                                  973             -           -           973         42            532             399
Total                              38,531        30,935        820         70,286      3,108         28,761          34,161
Notes:   - symbol indicates figure is not available
* Age-wise breakup not given.









